Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3524-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 10.1 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
April 21, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00           =   CFAF 355 1/
CFAF 1 million   =   US$2,820
ACRONYMS
DCEBS    =  Direction de la Construction et de l'Entretien des Batiments
Scolaires (Department of Construction, Repair and Maintenance of
School Buildings)
DEPS     =  Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (Planning Unit)
INEF        Institut National d'Education et de Formation (National Institute
of Education and Training)
MINEDUC  =  Ministere de l'Education Nationale (Ministry of Education)
SCBS     =  Service de Construction des Batiments Scolaires (School
Construction Service)
SEBS     =  Service d'Entretien des Batiments Scolaires (School Maintenance
Service)
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC'S
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is presently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Central African Republic
Amount:          SDR 10.1 million (US$11.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project          The major objectives of the proposed project would be (i) to
Description:    strengthen the Government's capacity for education planning and
financing, as well as for project implementation and evaluation
and (ii) to improve the quality of primary education in rural
areas. The project would include the following components:
(a) strengthening the Government's capacity to build, repair,
and maintain school buildings; (b) reconstruction and/or
rehabilitation and furnishing of about 300 primary school
classrooms; construction of about 100 houses for primary school
principals in remote rural areas; and distribution of
educational materials and textbooks to primary schools in three
regions of the country, covering approximately 54,000 students
and 800 teachers; and (c) technical assistance, specialists'
services, and fellowships to strengthen education planning,
establish a capacity for the evaluation of national education
programs, and prepare future education projects.
Benefits        The proposed project should result in a more efficient use of
and Risks:      scarce Government resources for school repair, maintenance, and
construction. Over the longer term, substantial savings should
result from protection of existing capital investments in edu-
cation facilities. The project should also have short- and
long-term educational benefits. It should encourage the devel-
opment in the CAR of an institutional framework for introducing
quality improvements in the education system. By strengthening
education and human-resource planning, the project should
increase the return on investments in education by improving
the link between the needs of the developing economy and the
outputs of its education system and by using existing resources
more efficiently.
Project implementation faces two important risks. First, the
Government's Department of Construction, Repair and Maintenance
of School Buildings may find it difficult to implement the
proposed civil works program efficiently because of a lack of
adequate numbers of local contractors with competent personnel
and appropriate equipment. Second, any major difficulty in
recruiting and training local staff for the Planning Unit could
unduly delay implementation of the education planning
component. Project design and preparation include appropriate
measures to hold these risks to a minimum.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs (net of taxes): 1/
Tocal     Foreign    Total
ÖUS$ million Ö
Strengthening the Department of
Construction, Repair and Maintenance
of School Buildings                        1 .1        2.2        3.3
Rehabilitation of Primary Schools            1.9         2.8        4.7
Strengthening of Education Planning
and Evaluation, and Preparation of
Future Projects                              0.1         0.6        0.7
3.1        5.6        8.7
Contingencies:
- physical                                0.4         0.7        1.1
- price                                   1.3         1.1        2.4
1.7        1.8        3.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          4.8         7.4       12.2 2/
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
------ US$ million ------
IDA                                     4.1         6.9      11.0
Government                              0.7         0.5        1.2
4.8        7.4       12.2
Estimated Disbursements
from the proposed Credit:
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Annual                1.2      2.4      3.1     3.1      1.0      0.2
Cumulative            1.2      3.6      6.7     9.8    10.8    11.0
Economic Return:   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 4280-CA dated April 15, 1983
Map:   IBRD 16801
1/   The project wil:L be exempt from local taxes and duties, except for taxes
on fuel, which are estimated to be negligible.
2/   Includes PPF advances totalling US$800,000 equiva:Lent to be refinanced
under the IDA Credit.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Central African Republic (CAR) for the equivalent
of SDR 10.1 million (US$11.0 million) on standard IDA terms, to help finance a
Second Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The last comprehensive economic report, entitled "The Economy of the
Central African Republic" (Report No. AW 16-a), was distributed to the Board
on May 22, 1970. During the second half of the 1970s, severe mismanagement
and the deteriorating political situation in the country made an economic
dialogue impossible, and the Bank Group's activities in the CAR were reduced
to supervision of ongoing projects. After the overthrow of the Bokassa regime
in September 1979, the new Government expressed its desire to begin discussing
economic matters again with the Bank. The findings of economic missions which
visited the country in May 1982 and November 1982 will be presented in a
Country Economic Memorandum which is scheduled to be completed in early FY84.
Political Situation
3.       Following the overthrow of the Bokassa regime, President Dacko formed
a new Government. His two-year regime was plagued by political instability,
and in September 1981, the army stepped in to stabilize the situation. The
new military Government under President Kolingba has begun to address the
country's economic difficulties with the assistance of France, other bilateral
donors, and international organizations including the Bank Group and the IMF.
Economic Potential and Constraints
4.       The CAR is a landlocked country of 626,000 km2 with a population of
2.4 million growing at an annual rate of 2.5 percent. About 30 percent of the
inhabitants live in urban areas. With a 1980 per capita income of US$298, the
CAR is listed by the U.N. as one of the least-developed countries. The CAR is
a member of the five-country Central African Customs and Economic Union and
uses a common currency, the CFA franc, issued by a regional central bank, the
Bank of the Central African States.
5.       The economy of the CAR is based on agriculture, which accounts for
35 percent of GDP and provides a living for some 80 percent of the popula-
tion. Mining and manufacturing account for 13 percent of GDP, utilities and
construction for 6 percent, and services for 46 percent. High transportation
costs in both domestic and international trade and an oversized civil service
are responsible for the large part of services in GDP. Although basically
devoted to subsistence crops grown by smallholder farmers, the agricultural



sector also produces export crops, of which cotton and coffee are the most
important. Their combined exports have recently accounted for roughly one
third of the country's export earnings. Timber and diamonds, the other major
export products, have recently accounted for 20-30 percent each of export
earnings. Industrial production, accounting for only about 7 percent of GDP,
has been limited to consumer goods such as beverages, textiles, soaps, and
footwear, and to some processing for export of cotton, timber, coffee, and
diamonds. There are indications that the CAR has petroleum resources on the
border with Chad, and test drilling is expected to begin at the end of 1983.
6.        The CAR's landlocked position, difficult transport conditions, a
sparsely populated area, the small size of the domestic market and a weak
human resources base are the principal constraints to developing the country's
resource potential. Bottlenecks in the river/rail route to the sea through
the Congo and the road/rail route through Cameroon substantially raise produc-
tion and inventory costs and reduce the CAR's export competitiveness. Produc-
tion costs and prices are also high because capacity utilization is generally
low and there is little competition, a situation which favors monopolistic
pricing policies.
7.        Import substitution, which should have benefited from natural protec-
tion due to the high transportation costs for imports, has been only moder-
ately successful. Political instability and financial difficulties in the
late 1970s and early 1980s led to stagnating public investments and a decline
in agricultural production, and discouraged private investment. Years of
rapidly growing employment in the civil service and in public enterprises have
resulted, however, in incomes which enabled the urban population to pay for
high-priced imported goods. Import tariffs, which constitute a major source
of budgetary resources, have been ineffective in protecting domestic industry
since it is very difficult to control the CAR's borders. Last but not least,
the expansion of import substitution has been hampered by a lack of skilled
personnel.
8.        Structural and institutional deficiencies have led to inefficient
management of the country's resources. A vastly oversized public adminis-
tration, which accounts for roughly 50 percent of all salaried employees,
constitutes a drain on financial resources and limits the country's own con-
tribution to capital expenditures.
Recent Performance
9.        Under Bokassa, the country was ruled in an erratic manner.  A
combination of declining agricultural production, unsound investments, rapidly
increasing budgetary deficits and short-term expensive borrowing led to the
economic and political collapse in 1979, when the BokeLssa regime was over-
thrown. World market prices for cotton had dropped at an average annual rate
of almost 12 percent; in real terms between 1976 and 1979, and in 1979 coffee
prices in constant terms had fallen to two thirds of their high levels in
1976/77. Public investments averaged only some 7 percent of GDP a year during
1976-1979 since foreign aid disbursements were cut in half and domestic
capital expenditures dropped to their lowest level ever. Consequently, the



country's infrastructure dilapidated, which resulted in the breakdown of agri-
cultural marketing channels and extension services. At the end of the Bokassa
regime, the public administration had virtually ceased to function.
10.      The two post-Bokassa governments have made serious attempts to re-
establish at least short-term programming and return to financial disci-
pline. An emergency reconstruction program for 1980-81, presented in mid-1980
to the international community at a donors' conference, received the general
support of the Bank and other donors.  But in spite of substantial external
assistance, especially from France, the economy continued to decline. During
1980 and 1981, GDP fell by 3 percent a year on average; and the minimal growth
of less than one-half of 1 percent estimated for 1982 will still lower per
capita income by about 2 percent, assuming an annual population growth of
2,5 percent.  Declining cotton production, low investments, and inefficient
public and parapublic enterprises have been responsible for this poor growth
performance.  During 1981 and 1982, cotton production dropped more than 30
percent on average compared to production levels during the preceding three
years. Investments remained at only 8 percent of GDP a year during 1980-82
because most projects presented in the emergency program 1980-81 required much
additional preparation before first disbursements could be made.
The Budget and Parapublic Sector
11.      Large budgetary deficits have become a major obstacle to making
better use of the CAR's resources. Chronically low tax revenue/GDP ratios
averaging only 12 percent during 1977-1981, and high expenditure levels caused
by an oversized civil service (salary payments have in recent years accounted
for roughly two-thirds of current expenditures) resulted in budgetary deficits
which have averaged 5.5 percent of GDP during 1977-1981. The domestic contri-
bution to investments has consequently been minimal; debt payment arrears have
been building up; and the public administration was crippled at times since
office equipment and supplies could be acquired only irregularly. In 1981,
the Government made an effort to reduce the deficit through a financial stabi-
lization program in connection with an IMF stand-by arrangement. Several
taxes were raised; tax collection was strengthened; and unjustified customs
duty exemptions were reduced. Consequently, tax revenues increased by 37 per-
cent in 1982 while current expenditure growth has been held at 14 percent or
stagnant in real terms, reducing the budget deficit in 1982 to about 3 percent
of estimated GDP. The budget deficits were financed by grants from France,
the banking system, resources from the IMF and by arrears on debt payments.
The Government and the IMF have reached a tentative agreement on an economic
and financial program for a 1983 stand-by arrangement which would aim at fur-
ther control of current expenditure.
12.      During the 1970s, the Government promoted state ownership in the
productive sector. The CAR's limited managerial capacity resulted, however,
in low efficiency and financial losses. Most public enterprises incurred
heavy operating deficits, the exact size of which remained unclear since the
enterprises discontinued generally accepted bookkeeping practices. Payments
for their services to the Government were made irregularly, and enterprises in



- 4 -
turn failed to pay taxes and to service their debts. In 1980 in an attempt to
remedy the situation, the Government began to convert public enterprises into
mixed and private enterprises. A High Commissioner in the Presidency is
assisting the parastatals in adopting accounting principles, preparing the
legal framework for the participation of the private sector, reviewing price
and tariff policy, reducing staff, and closing enterprises that cannot be
expected to produce profitably. With the help of a concessional loan from
France, the enterprises' overdue tax liabilities, inter-enterprises debt, and
the Government's payment arrears were largely liquidated in 1981. Additional
funds will be needed, however, to honor the Government's debt to several
public enterprises, to cover losses, and to facilitate the transformation of
enterprises into private or mixed companies.
Balance of Payments
13.      The CAR's balance of payments has recently been experiencing diffi-
culties which need to be addressed by appropriate policies. During 1970-1979
merchandise exports rose only at a moderate annual rate of 8 percent, though
world market prices for cotton, coffee, and diamonds rose considerably faster.
The trade balance showed, however, general surpluses during the 1970s (with
the exception of 1975 when both domestic production and world market prices of
cotton were low) since imports also rose only moderately.  During 1977-1979,
exports fell slight:Ly because (a) cotton production had fallen about 30 per-
cent and world market prices by 18 percent in real terms compared to pro-
duction and price levels in the early 1970s, (b) coffee production rose only
marginally while world market prices in 1978 and 1979 had declined almost one-
third in real terms from their high levels in 1976 and 1977, and (c) increased
export earnings from timber and diamonds could not compensate for the negative
developments in cotton and coffee exports.  Imports stagnated during the same
period because investments had fallen off, and the demand for consumer foods
and petroleum products had declined due to low incomes in the rural sector and
to the breakdown of the domestic transport system.
14.      The deterioration of the CAR's balance of payments situation during
the first three post-Bokassa years is a reflection of the decline of economic
activities in recent years in the CAR, in general, the continued fall of cot-
ton production, in particular, and also of unfavorable world market prices for
the main export crops. Average annual cotton production was 23,000 tons dur-
ing 1980-1982, compared to 34,000 tons during 1977-1979, 41,000 tons in 1976,
51,000 tons during 1970-1972, and almost 60,000 tons (the peak) in 1969.
Inadequate extension services, the rural development agency's very poor record
of collecting cotton, and political instabilities resulted in a substantial
fall of cotton production which could not be halted by the 20 percent increase
in cotton producer prices enacted by the Government before the 1980-1981 har-
vest. Export earnings from diamonds, coffee and timber rose only marginally
as their production increased insignificantly or even fell during 1980-1982.
World market prices for cotton, coffee and timber declined substantially over
the same period. The Government's efforts to revive the economy by raising
public investment expenditures, and by granting salary increases in the public
administration (both financed mainly by external sources) led to a strong
increase of imports of both project-related equipment and consumer goods.
Consequently, the average annual current account defic-iLt rose from 11 percent



of GDP during the second half of the 1970s to 16 percent of GDP during 1980-
1982. Substantial new capital inflows in 1980 and 1981 more than covered the
current account deficits, but failure to reach an agreement with the IMF in
1982 resulted in a fall-off in overall capital inflows and a moderate decline
in reserves. Net foreign assets have averaged US$27 million a year during the
last three years, which is equivalent to approximately six weeks of imports.
15.       In recent years, the IMF provided the CAR with substantial balance of
payments support. In 1978, the country received a US$6.9 million equivalent
Trust Fund loan; and in 1980, balance-of-payments support amounted to
US$14.7 million equivalent (US$5.2 million equivalent First Credit Tranche,
plus US$9.5 millior, equivalent Trust Fund loan). In 1981, support from the
IMF amounted to US$20.6 million equivalent (US$11.6 million equivalent Compen-
satory Financing, plus US$9.0 million equivalent from the remaining First
Credit Tranche, the Second Credit Tranche, and part of the Third Credit
Tranche). In addition, the country has received a total of US$5.5 million
equivalent in SDR a--locations since 1977.
External Debt
16.       As a result of its economic difficulties, the CAR is burdened with a
considerable external debt estimated at about US$240 million at the end of
1981. In recent years the country has been servicing its debt only irregu-
larly, and at the end of 1982 arrears have been estimated at some US$85 mil-
lion or roughly one third of total public borrowing. At a Paris Club meeting
in June 1981, participating creditor countries agreed to reschedule both the
outstanding arrears and the debt obligations falling due in 1981, leaving a
debt service obligation of US$11.1 million equivalent in 1981 (instead of the
US$24 million equivalent which would have fallen due in the absence of debt
rescheduling). Delayed bilateral negotiations resulted, however, in actual
debt service payments of only US$4.5 million equivalent in 1981, thus adding
US$6.6 million to arrears. In 1982, debt service obligations amounted to
US$14 million after further debt renegotiations with France, but arrears in-
creased by another US$10 million, since the country could repay only
US$4 million. Scheduled debt service payments amounted to 8.1 percent and
12.6 percent of export earnings in 1981 and 1982 respectively, while actual
payments during these two years amounted on average to 3.5 percent of export
earnings or 4.7 percent of budget revenues. Further debt relief negotiations
and reduction of arrears would be part of the IMF stand-by arrangement for
1983.
Development Priorities and Investment Program
17.       The Governments following the Bokassa regime have defined reha-
bilitation of the agricultural sector, reconstruction and maintenance of
infrastructure, education, and redressing the large financial imbalances as
the most urgent development priorities. The Government's National Action
Program for 1982-85 represents an important step toward determining develop-
ment priorities and making better use of available external financing.
Planned investments under the Program reflect these priorities by allocating
30 percent to agriculture, 38 percent to infrastructure, 24 percent to mining,



- 6 -
manufacturing, small-scale industry and tourism, and 8 percent to urban reno-
vation, health, education, and administrative purposes. Total investments,
including those from the private sector, would amount to about 12 percent of
GDP, on average, in 1983 and 1984, compared to close to 9 percent in 1981 and
1982.
18.      In the National Action Program, investment expenditures in 1983 and
1984 average 50 percent higher in real terms than those in 1981 and 1982.
Investment levels in 1981 and 1982 have been low, and a rather strong increase
in investment expenditures over the next two years is anticipated because (a)
many projects are expected to reach their implementation stage after two years
of preparation, (b) an increased number of projects will be carried out almost
exclusively by private contractors, and (c) more than 90 percent of the
Government's investment program during 1983-1984 is expected to be financed by
external sources, most of which has been secured.
Prospects
19.      The economy of the CAR, after having stagnated or declined during the
last several years,, can be expected to show some gradual improvement over the
next few years if present reconstruction efforts and reform policies are con-
tinued.  The implementation of necessary adjustments in the agricultural and
public sectors is likely to result in growth rates above the population in-
crease only in the second half of the 1980s, however.  Cash-crop production is
expected to increase in response to higher producer prices for cotton and
coffee. Prospects for cotton production are good from 1983 onwards, when the
proposed IDA-assisted rural development project in the cotton area (para. 22)
will begin to have an effect and when world market prices are expected to
recover from their present low levels. Foreign exchange earnings and budget
revenues from the forestry and diamond sectors are expected to increase sub-
stantially because of (i) a forecasted strong rise of world market prices for
timber, (ii) expanded production in both sectors, and (iii) improved tax
collection. The ongoing road rehabilitation program will stimulate agri-
cultural exports and facilitate the supply of inputs and of imported goods
needed for the country's reconstruction. Moreover, the apparent return to
political stability, the Government's encouraging attitude toward the private
sector, and the continued privatization of public enterprises are expected to
induce private investors to return to the CAR. The full impact of these
changes will not be felt immediately, but they have set the stage for further
improvements in the next years.
20.      In view of the country's poverty and debt-service problems, the CAR
is not creditworthy for conventional borrowing at present. In addition, even
assuming exceptional efforts to improve public financial performance, public
savings net of debt service are likely to remain negative during the early
1980s. Therefore, the Government's contributions to public investments will
remain modest for several years. Foreign donors should be prepared to support
the Government's efforts at reform and rehabilitation by continuing their
program aid, and assisting new development projects, extending their assist-
ance on highly concessional terms, and financing a high proportion of local
costs.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CAR
21.      Bank Group commitments in the CAR amount to US$57.7 million and cover
*four transportation projects, one education project, one lives.ock project,
and one technical assistance project.  Annex II contains a summary statement
of !DA Credits as of March 31, 1983, as well as notes or the status of the
ongoing projects.  Project implementation in general has improved considerably
over the past three years. The CAR's disbursement rate (disbursements in re-
lation to the undisburs'ed balance) compares very favorably with that of other
countries, averaging 67 percent during the last five yeèrs, compared with 24
percent for the Western Africa Region and 21 percent foi the Bank/IDA as a
whole.  The CAR's rate also compares very favorably witu those of other
countries at similar levels of per capita income and development.
22.      The level of lending and the sectoral composit. on of the Bank Group's
lending program to the CAR have been largely circumscribed by the country's
poor economic performance and limited absorptive capacity. If, however, the
present Government continues its efforts to improve its financial and economic
performance, the Association is considering lending its support to a compre-
hensive rural development project, a second technical assistance project, and
perhaps a further reconstruction/rehabilitation project in the transport
sector.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Background
23.      The provision of effective education and training opportunities to
the population of the CAR poses a continuing major challenge to the Govern-
ment. Foremost among the problems is the fact that the pcpulation is widely
dispersed throughout the country, that the age structure is very young (about
40 percent under age 14), and that the adult literacy rate is only about 20
percent. 1/ These factors all contribute to a situation in which the provi-
sion of adequate education services constitutes a severe burden for the
already constrained Government budget.
24.      The problem of ineffective education and training in the CAR is part
of a larger problem of limited possibilities for the development and deploy-
.ment of human resources.  The vast majority of the country's labor force
(representing in 1980 about 55 percent of the total population) works in the
agricultural sector (88 percent), with only minimal participation in the
1/   The participation rate of girls and young women in the education
system averages (as a percentage of total enrollment) 36 percent at the
primary levels, 20 percent at the secondary levels, and 10 percent in
higher education.



- 8 -
services sector (8 percent) and in the industrial sector (4 percent). The
most striking feature of employment patterns is the sharp increase over recent
years in the number of civil service employees (from approximately 15,000 in
1973 to about 26,000 in 1979) and a concomitant decrease in private sector
employment.  The increase in public sector employment; was caused by the
Government's policy of absorbing into the civil service all post-primary
school graduates who did not have job offers from the private sector, a policy
which was abolished only in 1981.  But the effects of the policy have re-
mained, as reflected in sharp increases in Government personnel expenditures
and in large public deficits. As a result, the Government could not pay its
debts to private companies, which led to increasing business failures and a
decline in private sector employment.
The Education System
25.      The structure of the CAR's education system is similar to that of
other former French colonies in West Africa. The system consists of six years
of primary education and four years of lower secondary education, followed by
three years of upper general secondary or technical education leading to the
baccalaureat and entrance to institutions of higher learning, including the
National University. Primary and lower secondary teachers are trained at four
national institutions, and upper secondary teachers are trained abroad.
Technical secondary school programs are offered in such fields as mechanics,
electronics, carpentry, masonry, and business. Vocational training is offered
at three schools in Bangui and at eleven rural centers.
Organization and Management of Education
26.      The Ministry of Education (MINEDUC) has overall responsibility for
formal education through the university level. Three MINEDUC departments are
critical to implemerntation of the Government's education policy. Education
planning is the responsibility of the Planning Unit (IDEPS), which, however,
lacks adequate numbers of specialized staff to carry out its functions; more
importantly, DEPS now needs to be reorganized to prepELre it for developing a
comprehensive national education strategy and planning for its implementa-
tion. The National Institute for Education and Training (INEF) has recently
been reorganized, and is now in reasonably good shape to carry out its res-
ponsibilities for research, curriculum development, textbooks, education
evaluation, and teacher training. The Department of Construction, Repair and
Maintenance of School Buildings (DCEBS) is one of the weakest institutions of
MINEDUC, but one which needs to operate efficiently so that the rest of the
system can function well. As in the case of the Planning Unit, the DCEBS is
in great need of being reorganized and strengthened with trained specialized
staff.
Primary Education
27.      Many of the problems that the education system faces at present have
their roots in the past emphasis on secondary and higher education at the
expense of primary education. This emphasis has been reflected in resource
allocation decisions both in respect of the national budget and of foreign



aid; for example, the proportion of the education budget spent on higher edu-
cation increased from about 9 percent in 1974 to almost 21 percent in 1981.
The result has beer that primary education is under-financed and suffers from
a multitude of ills: teachers are often poorly trained, teaching aids are not
available, urban cLassrooms are overcrowded, and many schools are in an advan-
ced state of disrepair. In rural areas especially, school buildings are in
such poor conditiorL and the students so subject to the negative effects of the
climate and the elements that even the best teachers cannot obtain good
results. As a result, the quality of instruction has become unacceptably low,
student attendance is declining, drop-out rates are high (as many as 50 per-
cent of students abandon school by the end of the third grade), and repetition
of grades is commoi.
Education Costs and Financing
28.      In 1981, -osts per student for both primary and secondary education
(US$55 equivalent .ad US$117 equivalent, respectively) were low by West
African standards. In comparison, the cost per university student--about
US$1,517 equivalent--was unusually high because of an overly generous scholar-
ship policy and high salaries for university teachers. Most of the education
budget is spent on teachers' salaries, with less than 10 percent allocated for
capital investments, educational materials, and maintenance. External sources
finance a large share (up to 80 percent) of capital expenditures, but most of
this goes toward buildings and furniture for institutions of secondary and
higher education. At the primary level, most capital improvements are accomp-
lished through self-help efforts by parents, especially in the rural areas.
Expenditures on education already represent about 23 percent of the national
budget, and since Government's current financial difficulties are likely to
persist throughout the 1980s, it is unlikely that available public funding for
education will increase substantially. The necessary improvements in the
quality of primary education will therefore have to be financed by reallo-
cating resources from higher to lower levels of education, and by maximizing
the use of these resources.
Institutional Weaknesses
29.      Past constraints on effective planning and development of the educa-
tional system have included frequent modifications of sector policies by poli-
tical authorities without proper consideration of educational implications or
manpower requirements. This will be one of the main issues to be addressed by
the recently established High Commission for Planning, which includes a Human
Resources Department responsible for linking the economy's demands for skills
to the development of its education and training system. To help in this
effort, appropriate measures are being planned to remedy DEPS' institutional
weaknesses, and to help strengthen its capability for policy analysis and
educational planning, including preparation of detailed plans for the imple-
mentation of policy measures. Existing weaknesses in this respect are ref-
lected, among other things, in an ad hoc approach to sectoral development
policies, and have resulted in the current inadequate budgetary allocations
for primary education and its relative neglect.



- 10 -
Governrl'ent Strategy for Educational Development
The Government is well aware of the many problems and issues in the
education system, and has defined its objectives for the sector in the
Natioral Action Program for 1982-85 (para. 17). This Program puts strong
emphasis on the need to improve the quality of educa-tion, in particular at the
pmiJFEary leve1 .Program objectives for primary education include:  improving
asces2s b  -creas-,ng enrollment by about 5 percent per year; upgrading teacher
qualifiations; revising curricula to make them more relevant; building proper
olass-rooms9 and providing textbooks and teaching materials.  Other Program ob-
jectives include; improving technical and secondary education by training
losal teachers to replace expatriate teachers; providing better coordination
between the counr.ty's manpower requirements and outputs of the education sys-
tem; and developing the Government's capacities for planning, school mapping,
ano, cost analysis. However, the Government realizes that while development of
technical and secondary education is important in the longer term, the immed-
iate pricrity is for improvement of primary education, since this represents
troe foundation of the entire education system, which could be endangered if
primary- education continues to operate in its present inefficient manner.
51^  ~The overall ob,ectives set by the Government for development of the
educa'-on sector are essentially sound, although the proposed rate of expan-
sicn of rrimaary education may be somewhat ambitious, and measures aiming at
improved rescurce utilization need to be worked out in detail.  The Government
aS already started implementation of its plans for the sector.  It has built
about Z-0 prrmary classrooms in rural areas, and has designed and experimented
-ith a primary education reform focussing on improvements in the quality of
ead-caticn by (i) in-troducing Sango, the lingua franca, as the language of in-
struction9; (i) expanding teacher training by building a primary teacher
traing school in ]3ambari; and (iii) launching an in--service primary teacher
training program.  Furthermore, to begin the process of resource reallocation
frDm higher to lower levels of education, the Government has frozen secondary
and higher education enrollments at their current levels.  Additional measures
are required, however, for successful implementation of the strategy; these
include the introduction of different teaching methods (including double
shifts and multigrad1e teaching, as appropriate) to increase the student/-
csassroom ratio in rural areas, and more emphasis in teacher training on
practical rather thEn theoretical applications. To consolidate the progress
achieved so far and to keep moving towards its objectives with optimum effi-
ciency, the Government needs to prepare detailed implementation plans.  Such
pcans would. irhlude specific targets, timetables and financial measures aiming
at reallocation and more efficient use of resources. The proposed project
will provide crucial support to the Government for the preparation of this
implementation plan and will help it achieve several key objectives by provid-
-Iig assistance to the institutions responsible for education planning and
project implementation, improving the quality of education at the primary
level, and establishing a solid base for the future expansion of primary
education in rural areas by strengthening the construction and repair capaci-
ties of the Ministry of Education.



- 11 -
External Assistance to Education
32.      Several donors have been providing assistance to education in the
CAR. France provides teacher salaries for secondary and higher education,
fellowships for post-secondary students, civil works and equipment for text-
book printing facilities, and textbooks for primary and secondasy students.
The United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and the African Develop-
ment Bank (AfDB) are supporting construction of primary schools and classrooms
in rural areas, and the AfDB is also financing construction of a Primary
Teacher Training School and a Faculty for Medical Sciences. The UNCDF is also
constructing Primary Teacher Upgrading Centers. The EEC and France have fi-
nanced studies to make recommendations on needed improvements in technical
education, and have contributed to the operating costs of existing technical
institutions.
The Bank Group's Role in Education Development
33.      The First Education Project, financed initially with a US$3.9 million
equivalent Credit (Cr. 308-CA), then with a US$0.9 million equivalent Supple-
mentary Credit (Cr. 1073-CA), produced uneven results. The project was ori-
ginally intended to strengthen teaching of science and technical subjects by
financing construction of four lower secondary schools, additional science and
practical facilities in four lycees, extensions to the existing technical
lycee, construction of a secondary teacher training college, and technical
assistance for preparation of a long-term education plan. Physical implemen-
tation of the project suffered delays. A lengthy start-up period, combined
with higher than expected worldwide inflation and a considerable depreciation
of the US dollar, led to substantial cost overruns and necessitated a sharp
outback in project scope. The Project Completion Report, issued in June 1982,
concluded that the project's educational impact was uneven and stressed the
importance of advanced and careful project preparation, including timely
recruitment of technical assistance personnel. The Completion Report also
emphasized the need to establish realistic implementation schedules which take
account of the country's limited resources.
34.      The design and preparation of the proposed second project reflects
lessons learned during implementation of the first operation. Design work for
all project facilities has been completed, and bidding documents for civil
works, furniture, and equipment are being finalized. The principal technical
assistance experts have been identified and recruited. Most of the project
works are for repair and maintenance of existing facilities rather than for
new construction. There will be active participation of local personnel in
the planning, execution, and supervision of project activities. Moreover,
although the long-term educational development program completed under the
first project was little more than a compilation of data, it did help the
Government to develop the sector strategy described in the National Action
Program (paras. 30-31). It also provided an adequate basis for design of the
proposed project, which includes appropriate provision for follow-up to the
work done under the original plan in the form of a reorganization of the
Education Planning Unit, the drafting of updated education strategy papers,
and the preparation of detailed implementation plans (para. 40).



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was tentatively identified by an IDA mission in
July 1980, but because of political upheavals and uncertainties at the time,
the proposals remained in abeyance until June 1981, when work resumed. A
second identification mission visited Bangui in November 1981, followed by a
preappraisal mission in February 1982.  Educational and architectural specifi-
cations for all project components were prepared by the Government prior to
project appraisal (August 1982), with assistance provided by the Unesco/Bank
Cooperative Program and an architect/engineer recruited by the Government.
Two advances from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) totalling US$800,000
equivalent were approved to finance detailed preparation activities, including
final approval of a:Ll construction sites, pre-selection of construction and
transport contractors, briefing of local entrepreneurs in bid preparation
procedures, and trai-ning of local site supervisors. lIegotiations were held in
Washington on March 21-22, 1983, with a Government de:Legation led by Mr.
Pierre Mokanzo, DirezCtor of the DCEBS. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4280-
CA) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The major objectives of the project are (a) to strengthen the Govern-
ment's capacity for education planning and financing, as well as project im-
plementation and evaluation, and (b) to improve the quality of primary edu-
cation in rural areas. Because of the CAR's tight budgetary situation, which
is likely to persist for several years, the project has been designed so that
its recurrent cost implications will be minimal, and maximum and most effi-
cient use will be made of existing DCEBS staff. As far as school construction
is concerned, no expansion of the existing system is foreseen under the
project, and no increase will be required in the number of teachers in project
institutions. The proposed project will be implemented over a five-year
period (1983-88) and will include the components described in the following
paragraphs.
37.       Strengthening of the Department of Construction, Repair and
Maintenance of School Buildings (DCEBS).  The project will finance civil
works, building materials, equipment, technical assistance, local specialists'
services, fellowships, and operating costs to reorganize the DCEBS and to help
it carry out its responsibilities more efficiently than is now the case.
These responsibilities include: supervision of rehabilitation works on primary
school classrooms, implementation of future school building programs, initia-
tion of maintenance programs, and establishing of efficient management and
accounting practices for these activities. By December 31, 1983, the Govern-
ment will formally reorganize the DCEBS, with a management structure and
staffing satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.04 of the draft; Development Credit
Agreement). The newly reorganized department will have two principal agen-
cies: the School Construction Service (SCBS), responsible for all construction
and rehabilitation work on school buildings, and the School Maintenance



- 1 3 -
Service (SEBS), which will be decentralized into three regional units. Tech-
nical staff for these agencies will be recruited on the basis of contracts
acceptable to IDA (Sections 3.05(a) and (b) of the draft DCA).
38.      Repair and Maintenance Program.  An innovative feature of this
project compor9nt, designed to correct a deficiency observed during the First
Education Project, is the plan to have principals and teachers participate in
decisions and monitoring of the repair and maintenance program. Teachers
*f     currently enrolled in training schools will be taught simple maintenance
practices and ways of detecting damage before it becomes costly, and a Repair
and Maintenance Guide will be distributed to all school inspectors, principals
and teachers. They will report annually to DCEBS on major repair work needed
for their schools, and these reports will be used to establish priorities and
work 'schedules for SEBS' three regional units.
39.      Primary School Rehabilitation.  This component provides for rehabili-
tation and furnishing of some 300 classrooms in about 120 primary schools in
different regions of the country (approximately 30 percent of the total number
of schools outside Bangui); construction of about 100 houses for school prin-
cipals to help attract experienced and qualified personnel to rural areas; and
distribution of instructional materials to about 54,000 primary school pupils
and to 800 teachers, representing about 20 percent of the pupils and teachers
in primary schools nationwide. The improved facilities will accommodate about
25,000 pupils, as most of the project schools will operate with multigrade
teaching. The project schools will be located in three regions which, in
terms of access to primary education, are currently the most disadvantaged.
Sites in the Basse-Kotto Region have already been selected for about 100
classrooms to be repaired in 1984, during the first phase of construction.
The second phase of construction will be implemented in 1985 in the Ouham-
Pende Region, and the final phase in 1986 in the Ouham Region. The Government
will select sites for the second and third construction phases shortly after
the start of project implementation and will submit a list for review and
approval by IDA prior to December 31, 1983 (Section 3.06 of the draft DCA).
40.      Planning, Evaluation and Future Project Preparation.  This component
will provide equipment, technical assistance, local specialists' services,
fellowships, and operating costs for (a) strengthening the Planning Unit
(DEPS) to increase its capability to prepare education plans and undertake
policy analysis, (b) establishing an education evaluation capacity within the
National Institute for Education and Training (INEF) to carry out testing on
the impact of an improved learning environment on student achievement in pri-
mary schools and on the efficiency in operation of those schools, and (c) pre-
paring education projects suitable for external financing.  To establish an
appropriate framework for achieving these objectives, the Government will
formally reorganize DEPS and will appoint key staff acceptable to the Assoc-
iation, not later than December 31, 1983 (Section 3.07 of the draft DCA).
Also, the Government will prepare and submit for IDA's review by December 31,
1984, a detailed plan for implementation of its education development
strategy, including a school location plan and a comprehensive financing plan
which will focus on the reallocation of resources to primary education
(Section 3.03 of the draft DCA).



- 14 -
Project Implementation
41.      The Ministry of National Education (MINEDUC) will have overall res-
ponsibility for the project, but the head of the DCEBS will serve as the
Project Director and will coordinate project implementation. Procurement of
civil works and equipment will be centralized in the DCEBS, which will also be
responsible for financial management and project accounting. The Directors of
the DEPS and the INEF will be responsible for implementing their respective
components for educational planning, evaluation, and future project prepara-
tion. The Government has appointed a Senior Staff Committee to monitor all
project activities. The members of this Committee include the Deputy Minister
of Education, the Director General of the INEF, the Directors of Primary
Education and of DE:PS, and a representative of the High Commission for
Planning. The Senior Staff Committee will begin submitting quarterly progress
reports to the DCEBS and IDA not later than October 1, 1983 (Section 3.11(c)
of the draft DCA). By clearly defining the responsibilities of key units and
personnel, and specifically by appointing the Senior Staff Committee, the
project is drawing upon lessons learned from the First Education Project by
institutionalizing appropriate measures to ensure efficient and timely imple-
mentation of this and future projects.
Project Costs and Financing
42.      The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$12.2 million equivalent, with foreign costs of about US$7.4 million
equivalent (about 60 percent). The project will be exempt from local taxes
and duties, except for taxes on fuel, which are estimated to be negligible.
Cost estimates for civil works are based on unit prices of construction
materials, transportation, and labor derived from contracts for comparable
works awarded in the CAR from 1979 through mid-1982. The base cost per
average staff-month of internationally recruited technical assistance is
estimated at US$9,000 equivalent (including salaries, travel expenses, allow-
ances, and overheads, but not including contingencies). The estimated average
cost per man-month of local services is US$310 equivalent. Physical contin-
gencies are estimated at 15 percent of base costs for vehicles, equipment, and
civil works (the higher-than-usual rate for civil works is due to the diffi-
culty of estimating the cost of rehabilitation work in rural areas) and 10
percent of base costs for furniture, specialists' services, and incremental
operating costs. Price contingencies for local costs have been applied at
14 percent p.a. in 1983-84, 12 percent p.a. in 1985-86, and 10 percent p.a. in
1987-88. Price contiLngencies for foreign costs are es-timated at 8 percent in
1983, 7.5 percent in 1984, 7 percent in 1985, and 6 percent p.a. in 1986-88.
Total contingencies are estimated at US$3.5 million equivalent (about 40 per-
cent of base costs).
43.      The proposed IDA Credit of US$11 million equivalent would finance
about 90 percent of total project costs net of taxes (93 percent of foreign
costs--$6.9 million equivalent--and 85 percent of local costs--$4.1 million
equivalent).  The Government would contribute remaining costs of about US$1.2
million equivalent, which would cover consumable materials and local staff
salaries paid by the DCEBS during project implementation. The comparatively
high share of IDA financing proposed for this project is considered well



- 15 -
justified because of the Government's current and expected critical budgetary
situation.
Special Account and Project Account
44.      Because the Government may find it difficult ir. its p:asent financial
situation to pre-finance expenditures eligible for reimb.ursement under the IDA
Credit, a Special Account has been established in a local financial institu-
tion acceptable to IDA for the local procurement of civ.l works, building
materials, spare parts, equipment, and operating costs cf the project. Fol-
lowing credit effectiveness, and on the request of the Borrower, an amount of
US$0.5 million equivalent will be transferred from the Credit to the Special
Account. The amount proposed for the Special Account ccrresponds to an esti-
mated 4-5 months of eligible expenditures averaged over the project imple-
mentation period, including a provision for possible delays in internal pro-
cedures by the Government in processing the accounts. The account will be
operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, end IDA will replenish
the account upon receipt of evidence of reimbursements from the Special
Account for allowable expenditures. Should any payments be made from the
Special Account that are not acceptable to IDA, the Government will be res-
ponsible for replenishing the account in the corresponding amount. The
Government will also establish and replenish a separate Project Account with
its local counterpart contributions to project costs. As a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit, the Government must submit evidence
to IDA that CFAF 10 million has been deposited in the Project Account, which
will be replenished quarterly from the Government budget (Section 5.01 of the
draft DCA). The Project Director will be responsible for management of the
Special Account and the Project Account.
Procurement
45.      Civil works for small buildings (US$0.9 million equivalent, excluding
the cost of building materials purchased directly by Government) are widely
dispersed in several regions, and will therefore be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures which have been reviewed by IDA during ap-
praisal and found acceptable. Where local competitive bidding is not fea-
sible, buildings will be constructed by direct labor. Contracts for building
materials (US$2.5 million equivalent) and equipment (US$0.9 million equival-
ent) will be grouped, whenever possible, in lots of not less than US$150,000
equivalent and will be procured by the DCEBS in accordance with IDA's Guide-
lines for international competitive bidding. Miscellaneous building materials
and equipment of less than US$150,000 (but not exceeding US$500,000 in aggre-
gate) will be awarded following local bidding procedures or on the basis of
quotations in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts for
transport of building materials (US$0.6 million equivalent) will be awarded
following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. Furniture
(US$0.4 million equivalent) will be procured under local procedures acceptable
to IDA. All contracts for goods valued at more than US$100,000 equivalent,
and all bid packages for civil works estimated to cost more than US$100,000
equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documentation;
the limit on civil works contracts would be raised to $250,000 after June 30,
1984, by which time DCEBS would have gained adequate experience in the



- 16 -
preparation of bidding documents. These procedures will result in coverage of
about 40 percent of the total estimated value of civil works contracts, and
about 80 percent of the contracts for goods. Remaining contracts will be
subject to random review by IDA after being awarded (Schedule 1 of the draft
DCA).
46.      Recruitment of specialist services (about 117 staff-years, of which
14 staff-years to be provided by expatriate specialists) will be under terms
of reference and terms and conditions of service acceptable to IDA. The
Government will be expected to assign qualified Central African counterpart
personnel to each specialist (Section 3.02 of the draft DCA). The project
will also provide 7.5 staff-years of fellowships for the training of local
staff; these fellowships will be awarded to suitably qualified persons for
training programs acceptable to IDA. Fellowship holders will be required to
serve at least five! years in the positions for which they are trained (Section
3.08 of the draft DCA).
Disbursements
47.      Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit will cover 100 percent of
total expenditures for the following items: civil works, including building
materials and transportation (US$4.3 million); furniture (US$0.5 million);
equipment (US$0.9 million); national specialist services (US$0.6 million);
expatriate specialist services (US$1.3 million); operating costs for DCEBS
(US$0.7 million); refunding of the PPF advance (US$0.8 million); initial dis-
bursement for the Special Account (US$0.5 million) (Schedule 1 of the draft
DCA). US$1.4 million equivalent would remain unallocated. All disbursements
from the IDA Credit account will be fully documented except for operating
costs at the DCEBS, which will be disbursed against certified statements of
expenditure, and for which documentation will be held by the Project Director
for review by IDA supervision missions and for audits of project accounts.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
48.      The DCEBS, the entity responsible for projecl; administration, will
maintain separate accounts for the IDA Credit and for the Government's
counterpart financing.  All accounts will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and reports will be submitted to IDA for review
(Section 4.01 of the draft D ). The proposed Credit includes provision for
financing the required audits. The Project Director will submit quarterly and
annual reports on project implementation of a scope and in a format acceptable
to IDA (Section 3.11(c) of the draft DCA).
Project Benefits and Risks
49.      The proposed project should result in a more efficient use of scarce
resources and in the development of key institutions in the education sector.
First, improved organization and management of the DCEBS should lead to more
efficient use of the Government's recurrent budgetary allocations for school
construction, equipping, repair, and maintenance. Second, significant savings
should result from the establishment of an effective repair and maintenance
program which will protect the Government's capital investments in education



- 17 -
facilities against rapid deterioration. Third, investments designed to
improve the quality of education should improve the cost effectiveness of the
education system by gradually helping to reduce dropout and repetition rates
and thereby lowering the average cost of producting a primary-school
graduate. More gererally, improving the quality of primary education should
also lead to substantial long-term economic benefits, since a more literate
population is more likely to accept modern productive methods and health and
family planning practices.
50.      The project should encourage the development in the CAR of an insti-
tutional framework for introducting quality improvements in the education
system over the long term. By strengthening education and human-resource
planning, the project should also increase the return on investments in
education by improving the link between the needs of the developing economy
and the outputs of its education system. The project's evaluation component
should provide the Government with the information needed to determine which
investments in education offer the best returns at a particular time. One
important side-effect of the project will be the strengthening of the local
economy by the opportunities offered for new employment and for additional
income generated for small entrepreneurs (builders, manufacturers of school
furniture, and local transport firms).
51.      Project implementation may face two important risks.  Despite some
earlier limited experience in supervising other externally financed construc-
tion programs, the DCEBS has never worked on a project as extensive as the
proposed operation. It is also still not clear if there are enough local
entrepreneurs with competent personnel and appropriate equipment to execute
the works. This risk is being addressed under the project by efforts to up-
grade DCEBS staff, early recruitment of experienced technical staff for long-
term assignments to DCEBS, arrangements for special training for construction
supervisors well before the start of project implementation, and construction
works on regional warehouses (under PPF financing) to allow entrepreneurs a
chance to demonstrate their capabilities and to be introduced to construction
techniques developed by the project architect.
52.      There is an additional risk that difficulties in recruiting and
training local staff for the DEPS could delay implementation of the educa-
tional planning component. To address this risk, the project would finance
fellowships for staff training and would arrange for fellowship holders to
receive on-the-job training by internationally recruited specialists before
their departure and upon their return to the CAR. Further, they would be
required to continue their employment in the Planning Unit for at least five
years in the positions for which they were trained.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Central African
Republic and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 18 -
54.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A special condition of Credit effectiveness would be the submission by
the Government of evidence that it has made an initial deposit of CFAF 10 mil-
lion in a separate Project Account to be used for financing local contribu-
tions to the project (para. 44).
55.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
opment Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by E. Stern
Washington, D.C.
April 21, 1983



ANNEX I
-19-                                                        Page l of 6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
TOTAL            623.0                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOMF             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      49.3              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
t                 GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       150.0    300.0                  250.8                 1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      29.9        61.1      45.7                  66.5                  610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1538.0      1857.0   2294.0
URBAN POPULATIONi (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.7       31.1      40.9                  17.8                   28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       3.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        11.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        2.5         3.0       3.6                 27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     32.3        38.4      45.5                 86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         38.7        39.6      40.9                 44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                         57.9        56.7      55.3                 52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.5         3.7       3.9                   2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.0         1.9       2.1                   2.7                    2.8
URBAN                              4.5         5.1       4.8                   6.2                    5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     42.6        45.0      44.4                  47.3                   47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     27.8        24.8      20.8                 19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.6         2.8       2.9                   3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)         100.0       100.0    101.0                  88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   94.2        93.3      91.8/c               90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          40.9        41.5      41.4/c                53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.7        10.4      10.5T,               18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     45.8        39.3      32.3                 26.7                    23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   35.7         39.4      43.8                 45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          194.7       173.0     148.5                129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      16.0/d               23.9
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.07T               54.9
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.o7                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        72.0        ..                 25.8
URBAN                               ..        64.0        ..                 63.1
RURAL                               ..        96.0        ..                 20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         49612.9    44214.3  20273.6/c              32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3276.2      1605.0   1543.875              3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            814.2       535.5     720.4/c             1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                            697.7       627.9    609.67E               249.5                   430.8
RURAL                            856.1       512.1     897.3/c             1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        21.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.9          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              3.4          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN
RURAL



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                     Page 2 of 6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT PATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  32.0         65.0      77.0/c                 63.2                     83.3
MALE                  53.0         91.0      100.0/7                72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                12.0         44.0       54.1/c                50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          4.0      10.0/c                 10.2                     15.3
MALE                   2.0          7.0       16.0/c                13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 0.3          2.0        4.07c                 6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  10.0           12.1        7.7/f                 7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.1         63.7      64.7/c                 47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                           29.7         21.5         ..                  26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          7.4/e         ..       38.5                  34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4          3.3       5.2/g                  3.0                     31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.8         24.8      49.0                   34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       0.1                    1.7                     17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.3          0.3         ..                   2.9                     19.1
CINEMA ANNIAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3            0.3         ..                   1.1                      0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOU'SANDS)       928.5       1070.8    1249.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    49.4         49.0      48.6                   34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               94.0         91.0      88.0                   78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0          3.0       4.0                    9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TCTAL                                 60.4         57.7       54.5                  41.4                     37.0
MALE                                  63.2         61.2       58.5                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                57.7         54.4      50.8                   29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.7          0.8        0.8                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOl4E
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ILOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                  134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      49.0                   82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      91.0                   60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                   69.O
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1976; /e 1962; If 1975; /g 1974.
May, 1982



- 21 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
S.-ta   AlflveO  U.a Jaa  ower    tram  sowoe  V-el   adged L     -                -the eta ihani-.v   and reIlble. it eh-ld  I-a be noted thas they   y net he inte-
na ..laaly copr ble  sre    of ohs Lack of sic dda-d dfaiioaad   -acPt. wed by ditfefan onwards.   -1onli 'nia  the dare.  Th. dte ate, sag-
chains  nodal to describe ardor-o a giod,indicate tred., and ohartoreioc certain so)o  diffe-ece  beten  ontis
The reerco  gooa -r (1) thies -n coutry group ci of. subject cocoy and t2) acoc-rry group vich soe                      ha ighec uvorgo moos  th-  the  catr  groaP
ofthe  ujc:     cacy(ocp,o             "High I-o       OilEpraa  group niec  MAiddle moo-    Noth Afric  adMddle ton` incuL                          bcueofsrne
ic-ic-cascl ofolit)    n  c  cote--  grou.p dora tie e-rg-n are populoriuc nightad  aihantloao.  for  ho  id-l-ua   sod show    aiy when
wujo,try of cteo coreaIn    gIpinie   u  tier cdicotur.  pilac  ci. c-erge of -nactesavng thetdno--r  dopeod. on cs ovolohilfoty of dora
ad in cot -flcor. --ui-c sot P.. onriord too ro.ista            vrg.  uts one. indicator to untber    hre  vnre  err only usefal toL             sprn   the nae of
un  ldicacu  oct  Ia  cacao. the  --utoy cad enfereuc  groapa.
AMS  (th-uso  nq.-u.)                                                                             P.opaltios pe .-spini1 Bad -ttl  ura ad rura  - Popoloti.s (tensi,
Totl - Ttc1-ol  nor  .troo-p-ioag loud arc  and ileled wcr;1979 dunn.                             uroban   n   rua)dvddby their rapccti- nuehe  of haspite1 beds
4                      ~~~~~~Agricultural -  urun-  I. of 0c . Icurul. ure  coed t-p.prsilp or persanlp                   ovoiohi  tod puli  ad privat  ge-er1 and op.clalleed hespital andfe-
f.l  -rpu. patre,sokt a-. luitrrt grdeun ur tu Its follow; 1979 date.                          hubilitutian  cone.g           italnaeerselbiohansts parmntly etnff
by at leaao cn  phyololan.  ctubIchanutn providin   priouieely ...nne-
14Pf   APT  10)-GN lp pocl - cc nucianoc  at corret narkt prices. ..al-                     dia1lt r     -or  nut  -locldod.  aRol1 heyttla,haor  include health
cuao   y te-    --ncoi.o eetb- en Wold Renk Atlu  (09)08-00 heals); 1961,                    cud sudirl ce_r-  net per-etly scuffed by A phynicfn   Chef hyA
1920, and 1930 douc.                                                                              -djol .e.e. o I,uo, sid'ifu.  c_r. )  hich afEr in-patootsce
datlon and peu-ido A liicud rage at medical facilities.  Posat-
fENERGY CONSUM9PTION PER CAPITA - A-nucj.-cnuprton of co.ciu1 energy (u1                            tic-I purpcuen ucha  henpital.in  gclde WHOa prioripa1/gesrl-I          pias
cod ligult., perle            - ot l Pzoo and bydro-, nuc-la  cud geothersa  elo-                 cudeo  he-pic-g. lor1 er rura  henpitals and   dical and  starniny
cricity) in kitlogru-  of col..      an I   Per capita; 1960, 1970, end 1979                     rener.    pelaLond hespitals Als inclded  uly adre teta.
dar.                                                                                           Ad..sinoncrOupital Buld - Total oute  at udeluian I  to ur disohages
Eros boeptela  iiddb  the nater of heda.
POPUJLATION cND TITAL STATISTICi
Tota:l PupulItiou, Igid-toar (lb.aod   Au of July 1; t96l, 1970, oud 1930                    00101140
data.                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Average lIne nf  -oaehed frosoo  h,,-  Iehed) -  utt ur ban, and reai-
Urban population (pecceut uf tmid) -Rtia of urban cc cortd  pcpuletion;                           A booueheld  _enini t   a gA    a  uf. iP  ita     woseeLiving qanir
dif ,rIt detcicIof    of.  ubar ocansy affet pactrbilirp  at data                               eud their sam   -a..  A barder or lodger may or ye net he ilclded is
un  cg . rocrlnn; 1960. 1970. c 1980 data,                                                     the  .cushold for st.atinia    upns
Populecioc Ia pru-  I0-  lro              pouoIo"  prj-triun  00A   asdo  1980                 her of Pnnen  Per r... in oil1 uria, cud rural accopied rvninl1
trurln  poploo  by ogecuauodnhiseoir  and  eorly raes                                          ulig . repectio-ly.  Wheeliugn e-olda ne-.perannt stutrsud
Projer_to   pasnrr  for  -erroliy rate   -pri-o of three leoasau-uoccpied parcs.
log life eu1purtunry or bilt l   tIIceuiog with r..urory's per -opica tLos                 Aroma to Ole_ccoty (por-rtof dwellings)-uta,rbnedrrl
coo,  an -d f,,Inale hE   -upo  u-c  stulllio g or 77.5 peors.  Tie Par-                     io-nntiio d.e. ioa   ith electricity to lIinig qantere asP-rnig
_teer  Er       I fetly rare o. -c he- chthre  Ietol.  -ou .u  de,1e Lo                     of rural, -rhun, cud rural deelligareope-nicly.
tactic icy  .ccurdic0 to i       Iro - Ien  ui puat fenily plouciut perf.ormne
tori co-ury in theo ... igned ca  nI ficc oice robinetluca of venality                   EDUIATIC!!
cd torltlry r-rda for proj-rtio   Pupo-e.                                                 Adjnofed torol-anoftoiro
itarluacy youui   _I'nltnt pine       pouleriuc thorn is no growh atmPrmr o-                              - tuitl, nic u-d fesl-ico-o..  total, sale and femal
tir bitch rtc- is c.g_l to tic death rote, and also rheugestoarcuce-                            sn-1llsen  of nIl ages or the prisory lund           - an .ercstgen at respective
mai_e nocr   This ioo-hbi...d caly after teoility cocos derlice1 toP,Oaty achool-ane pcpuiatianu;   -11ni  includes  bielde- aged b-il
tie eeplarsec  lenel of ant torcpI          drin  no    hen.. hcr  geoertioa                    -er  hat udjoced for dlff-rcu    entoof primary educative; for
of  can  rulurs iuel  enrtt.  Tir atri-ney population airs seLatce  with aniau-I edca tie- arlianot may eaced 100 peccat
estisa_d 00tie~ bouisut tie pr..jer.ed rcro-rtnl~cirouf rie pupuIlaro                           since s_  Ppupils urn  e_ Ir  bho  fhin official whoul Age.
inthe year 2110. dand rhrte of decine I of  'toulic  rot  to relae-iaodarp ehool -                                       -crl,sl  ard feale - foep.ted .. abov;  -eneday
sen  leve,                                                                                      education requires at menu f-a  peArs of uppr-vd peisty tsecis
Yea nitin..ary  p             L.occ   in -abed - Tic y-r whan statiney populeoton                 protid.. ge.sr-1,  ocattoui ., or isome   traiin L      nrotin orppl
ufos wall bnrecrid.                                                                              anellyIof 12 to 17 morn. of age; --ropandao   corsn  regeet-
Pr uu. in M-Od-pro  ponulatio- Pc uq.-u kiloncr    (lOll hitertarn  I  f                     torootonl eunlet(peret of urodury) - V...sitoeliusiug
rt)c0;96,1970 cd179 dora.                                                           taclade technical,Idutia.oroher prograo ebab opor-ofeodeped-
Pr so -    X_. urrocuo  lard - ionod an oboe far  grcutuullod                                  eni   ra  dpr-os  fscnaristuie
ol;1960, 1970 and 1979 dar.                                                              ci-rrbratio-riay  an   ouoo - To.inoet   nnldi
Population Age Srruccu" (perrur    Chaildron  f0-14 yoar..   sckitug-ago  (15-                    primay and  -ncnday Iev-le diidad byn             -sr  or  -ahero In the
64 Yearn), and -tci-d (65 y-ar  uod ooe             - 0    orntogen of sid-yncr Ppop-           Iarnooiglenu
lu Iu   1960,19,an  1980 data,adl literac  rote (r -ntl - Litrerte adults (shin en eed nod owlet)
Popal-cin Growth tr   prui    total - or-ol grasti crof cc  ura  nd-                              aoper-en ge at tacal edalt popalotius ugud 11 yearn and aver.
yerpupIcria  for  90-0   796-Pt.ad 1970-80.
paulcinr   ht Rtote (prreo)9!- ohu- At-a  growth  oafr at brha  Ppup-                  CNl05lfTION
lartoa. tar 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-80.                                                   Pthvne   ar (e  iouad popalutiau) - Passeger cara coprise ant
ilade pL~Itc_toe  ea  cheunoo.d) - Macal lIre bilch   P pt r-cund of uid-year                    canerIng  ee  ihr etchi p-rauo; e-Zlden utolance, heasc  n
Ppoplation; 1960, 1970, and 19Pi dare.                                                          milino"yreiirlcs.
Crude Occ  or(r  ntcnd       aaldai   c   iauo                       tadya                     Radio  toni. r  (pr  ctal        poultin   - All types of reeier  fo  -adin
p   Itlta;190   90   n  1980'l dora                                                        brd-aesto genera) pulic per chann  of pepularlan; o-clanafan
Iru- topuductio   ot-tracuI-er of duaghte-  a oa   ill bear to                                    litensedcce s in coutries and in pae  whe                             ofinrte   ntrdio
be -aslrp-adrri-c period if nhte  crec             ...e prnn   ge-speifir tEa-            ono  uni  efet  daafrrrn euay sot hecuwoahble  since
r1ilt Icy lla   ... onulpfr-ercnoe  -adiog io 1960,'1970,. od 1980.                            50s  roa fies ah1ihad Ii-ecing.
Penil  IlnIsgI trccpLar, Annual (c1iousuda) - Aonaui outer at acreprr                           T, Recivers (pert ihenu   poultin -I TV caevestr  onrait
ci hirticontroldentin   nder ucpi-i  a -t o -uno  tf_ily plannngpcora.                 generatsltpubli  per the!; u Fpepultan;! errides ulirunnd TV rc  er
Pn I.,Pnrin-ier  (pres  fmrre    mb)-Prcnueef-macindLe mcone  an d in pears whe  rngi.ltgiun of TV sets  -  in efface.
noan  at child-heaing age (15-44 yearn) who.n  birt-rarro   decInet                            esae   icltu   (per thaadppirn)-  hw   h   vrg    e
all enrind  -un  in  -m  age gcnup.                                                            raition ofI daily genera  ine=us   esypep-", de.fied As a peioldica1
P.,liatie   m td p-tlaily iu rtdig geanl sws   Itc                       Is eenl.ds
FOOD ADOl OfITIOTNP                                                                                to he "doty" if if  pu t Pl tIll,n fear riesa  ek.
loden of Pand Pr-durio  ro    oia(997.P0      oe   ~ercaiaonu                                    os    ana   stnar   e  CZei cr   ea  - Buse d an the neherl ef
podutilot of al  fun  Potdtln    prdactILIeclud- urdad f-rd and                               ticktis sId ding rhe yenn. inclding amussto drive-in utasan
io I0 -ulnodo  yea- ai.   ouffuorrpimr   od  (re. s.garasu                                     and   obtl~II anic.
macread ui sugar) suh are edibl  and catoit urci                i.&  rcff-c and
tee ore urcuded).  Mg.gcegtc  prodnctloo of each  -tauty in bused cc                       LABOR pFnis
o-    -Iuo  a_ergo producer price seigra; 1961-by, 1970, aad 1900 dab..                      T-f1 labor Force  -eoouo      rneclyatire P--o,inldg
Per -ailn  ",pely of Inuco(ecn   fccieer)- Cospured El co-o-d farce  and oenpliuyd but cuciudiog  bu                                                  tivs cdenta. etc.,
t_-ro    eqiaerof-ne  rod sappli-uo-olable  in c--ty pac loylte                                cateing pcpaottuu uf all atm.  Bufiitinos in  -ao..a c-ntries see
per day.  AvaIlable nupplit- creptin   d-nctic produrciac. isparta I.ou                        ncr _o.rable; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
vaports. und riungon In --kr.  Noc   ppylion  -urlde uuinal f red, o-dn,                       remai  (pet-ct  - PFnl  labuc torro as percentge  f rural labor fopn
loaorlo  od In focd p-u_esing, and icus.. in diurrihutica.  toquirrtuictr   ecet  - lietre  ntrig   torsur. huofin  sod
oenroaitanrcma-d by PAc basci on piysiolgi-I.. osda for oana1 -ci-                               fihn    npratoge of total bola    fcr;9 9196. 170 and 1900 dais.
dr _ad he_li  rnadrigcoiruooa  r                  oarae.  ody -oigica  ageB                ledascry(pr        i - labor rorc. to sinfg. cu..a. io.   -afo-tuing
and nec dintrihotion of pylaio,od aloigi   ecn     rcot   tadeetiiy  wtrat   o   np-ecooo   na   ae   re;
benneboldlevl; -~I1961-65. 1970 ard 1971 data. t               _l19 60. 1970 and 1980daa
Per upir  noply o  proelolurn  car dory  -IPoti   oro   of pe  rpci                    Porriraao ;tor   pecnt    trl.ml, and femle - Parciapatia  or
ne  spply ot fnod por day.  Rut supply of food in drfiand as  bir.-.Rn-                      -ctieiyleyrtencr          eda         1oa, male, and fenal  labor tarrens
quirea-.r  forol  racoic  onrblisbud by USDA pro-ide lot ninn                                  Perenagsoftae, vein  oaf f-mle popalati.o  of oil  gn respectively;
I....o.e of Li Erama of rura  pra-oo  per day co R2 granofaimal cud                           1960  1970.ad-1980 dar.  Then  ac  honed -u LEDn  perfjiapasiun ratc
Pola  prtna  of                                       PIZwt_Lhirl 10 grama uhoid be cuimalpoorei.  Ti nu   on-rflcigana    totr  of rte. pepaloti, and 1nag ti- trend.  A
p                        ar~~~~~~~~do ar  love  uthacits- of 75 groan of total protin cod 2) grunt of                    few  -nrintes urn from caroa   nues
c-ima  p-ocei  at       --oneg  far:he,ol,poon  by PAO it uhe Third                           ,        Droosi Opeceoy Ratio  - torIa of pcpalala  under 15 and i5 a.f  ve
Wncld Pood Oc-oy;  791-5  12  an 977 dta,t   b  ttlibo   om
ridfo    tnL   anI  aati   rn   e   e;1961-65, 1970 ood 1977 dait.                  IN00ME DISfTRIBTION
Child(aa I. -4)taitr .= (cc h. cbaedp) - aoau   d-oca per thi.c.a.d loPreugeo   rct  l                                          bt  in ran  and kind) - Buc-i-d hy richest
ago group 1-4 poem, to childron i tohib  age gruop, for ansi deo-Inpingcun                     5 percet, richest 20 peren, poorat 20 perret, and p--rea  40 perr-t
tries  do d- i-ovd iron lifo  robins; 1960, 1970 and 1980 duto.                                of he..sehold-.
HEALTH                                                                                         PIVTSeT  T60itT GROUyPS
Life topncruoy at Birr  (yar) -lAnrgc outer of yearn at life remiotug                          The falwu.11       mcuer  eyopuomt   nsaa   fpvet   ees
atbIrch; 1960  1970 and 1980 dae-o hul   eitcree    iha ideae caufian
Infant Ietl       tamlee  ciancd) - Ac-an  dathn of infants under cu  y-a                      intimated Ainelar  Povety Inton  level (US1 per ..eir.) - ochan en -rra1
of sgn      t hauan  lion  biitht;. 1960 ..17   o   90di.                                        aslte_poertyinn levlis tier   auv  leve  below  whit 0s                    sL-
da..ss to ifef  Oterec(tcn  ofpounra)- toa,ors   n  rarl - Ro-                                   cuirlcisal  udeue die  plea ...etie1 ann-fond reqaire=nst  is ant
her of penpin  (total  uraned rural) with -.reason bin acces  to nufe                          aft ed.bie.
.to cu  npply (inclue  treatd sotaf    ater  orp unreted but  Fanantd                         toimac  toIlaive Povety macuse lee I(Uil pee enpi) - urban and  -ar
water tori en tier f       lc potecte   icehe, opings, end saiay   el)us                       Rrl  eaie  enr  incoe               -lui in nan-riled of aveng  pee  -pits
p--c9cn- of their resPectivepo            ts . i  an urbanan    publicP esnL -incofea  the c-utey.  Irban leve  is durivd tesl                                      s  ua
fananolcnys  csu    o   aera   0   eesfo      uu   a  beleve  with adjantani for bigh-t eani of liioin  in nebs  _tas.
considered as being sitbia  -aunble names of  ht hbean.  In ruelsr...                         oimtdPeaaia   uo  Abult   aero1m    evl(snss      es
rensuneir arrno woud Imply thstehneiec   ebesolh   enil                                    o  cue  -  ecn   f PepI        ro   ubnadeurl  h   r   aole
do non hov- ospn   dinpraonoespare of t day  to f-tabig the5c-_
Ou-er at  .pelr  (total, anion, and mini1) seuvd by an-tei  disposs.1
peec...tages of tiboi   repcinpopuaient.  tocent  dipuani any Linclde
she ne1etien sa  dispsal, with or actana  tretmet. t fbae an-ts
sad  tnnevetaI by noter-horn  oysete  It the a55 at pit pelnisa aud .in-
1Puen.ioen   r P- otis-Pplta   iie  by nuto, of peatialug physi-                                                                     Floan,ie end tocin  D.-n Diodii
elav  qanLif!1 ledtre  a adi-nI sebeI At aniv..sity lee.-Puni  Asalyss sad Pnjactiuns Dupactast
Puenlaslee sat  etins Parse  - Pepeistien dicided by anhrof pracufefg                                                                             Buy 1942
male end feasl  grud-te .s....... .nuitan- uss  pracu.los  Iae  and
nsfaisg nAnoile-ien.



- 22 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
(in billions of current CFAF)
Estimates              Projections
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984     1985
A. National Accounts
1. GDP                                107.0    123.5    136.7    150.9    168.4    188.8    216.2    251.4    295.2    348.4
2. Consumption                        102.4    121.8    136.2    154.0    191.4    201.3    237-5    256.6    292.4    341.4
3. Gross Investment                    12.9      14.4      15.0      14.6     11.8      17.3      18.5      30.5      36.8     38.0
4,   Public Investment                  8.9       9.2       9.4      11.5      8.5      12.3      13.3      24.7      29.4     30.0
5.   Private Investment                 4.0       5.2       5.6      3.1       3.3       5.0       5.2       5.8       7.4       8.0
6. Domestic Savings                     4.6       1.7       0.5     -3.1    -23.0    -12.5    -21.3         -5.2       2.8       7.0
7. Exports, incl. NFS                  25.4      32.5      30.5     30.0      34.3      37.3      39.0      43.7      49.0      55.0
8. Imports, incl. NPS                  33.7      45.2      45.0     47.?      69.1      67.1      78.8      79.4      83.0      86.0
9. GDP (in mil. current $)            457.3    502.9    605.9    709.4    797.0    694.9    617.7    718.3    843.4    995.4
10. GDP deflator:  Index                90.1    100.0    107.5    122.3    141.9    162.8    185.6    211.6    241.2    275.0
11. GDP at 1977 const. prices          118.7    123.5    127.2    123.4    118.7    116.0    116.5    118.8    122.4    126.7
12. GDP growth per year                  3.5       4.0       3.0     -3.0      -3.9      -2.2       0.4       2.0       3.0       3.5
B. Sector Output
Value Added                            107.0    123.5    136.7    150.9    168.4    188.8    216.2    251.4    295.2    348.4
1. Agriculture                         40.6      46.8     49.9      55.8      63.4      70.5      75.6      86.5    100.3    115.4
2. Mining                               8.8       9.0      13.2     13.0      13.1      11.5      12.1      12.5      14.3     17.8
3. Manufacturing                        6.2       7.6      10.8     11.8      11.4      13.2      16.9      19.9      23.3     28.4
4. Water and Electricity                0.7       0.9      0.8       1.0       1.2       1.9       2.4       3.1       3.7      4.6
5. Construct. & Public Works            4.6       5.4       4.9      6.4       6.1       '7.0      9.8      13.0      13.6     14.5
6. Commerce                            16.1      18.6     20.1      21.2      24.6      27.3      32.3      37.9      45.3     54.3
7. Transport and Telecomo.              4.9       5.0       4.6      4.4       5.6       6.8       8.5      10.9      14.3     17.9
8. Public services                     14.1      16.9     18.0      22.0      25.4      30.9      35-3      37.8     43.3      49.5
9. Private services                     5.2       6.1      6.2       7.2       7.7       8.6       9.3      12.6      16.0     20.8
10. Indirect taxes                       5.8      7.2       8.1       8.1       9.9      11.1      14.0      17.2     21.1      25.2
(net of subsidies)
C. Sectoral Output in Percentages
1. Agriculture                         37.9     37.9      36.5      37.0      37.6      37-3      35.0     34.4      34.0      33.1
2. Mining                               8.2       7.3      9.7       8.6       7.8       6.1       5.6       5.0      4.8       5.1
3. Manufacturing                        5.8       6.2      7.9       7.8       6.8       7.0       7.8       7.9      7.9       8.2
4. Water and Electricity                0.7      0.7       0.6       0.7       0.7       1.0       1.1       1.2       1.3      1.3
5. Construct. & Public Works            4.3       4.4      3.6       4.2       3.6       3.7       4.5       5.2       4.6      4.2
6. Commerce                            15.0      15.1     14.7      14.0      14.6      14.5      14.9      15.1     15.3      15.6
7. Transport and Telecomm.              4.6       4.0      3.4       2.9       3-3       3.6       3.9       4.3      4.8       5.1
8. Public services                     13.2      13.7     13.2      14.6      15.1      16.4      16.3      15.0      14.7     14.2
9. Private services                     4.9       4.9      4.5       4.8       4.6       4.6       4.3       5.0      5.4       6.0
10. Indirect taxes                       5.4       5.8      5.9       5.4       5.9       5.9       6.5       6.8      7.1       7.2
(net of subsidies)
Total                                  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
February 1983



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET - CONTINUED
(in billions of current CFAF)
Estimated  Program
1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983
D. Public Finance
1. Budget Revenues                       13.6      16.8      16.7      20.2      21.7      24.3      33.5      36.7
Of which: Tax receipts              (13.0)   (16.0)   (16.3)   (19.4)   (20.9)   (22.5)   (30.9)   (34.4)
2. Current Expenditures                  17.5      21.0      22.7      27.6      29.4     32.0      36.4       35.4
Of which: Interest on debt           (0.1)    (0.3)    (0.2)        (-)      (1.0)    (0.7)    (0.9)       (1.5)
3. Capital Expenditures                   1.4       1.9       2.2       0.4       1.9       3.0       3.8       8.9
Of which: Amortization on
external debt             (0.4)    (0.8)    (0.8)    (0.1)        (0.9)    (0.7)      (0.7)    (5.0)
4. Budgetary Deficit                     -5.3      -6.1      -8.2      -7.8       6-6    -10.7       -6.7      -7.6
5. Financing                              5.3       6.1       8.2       7.8       9.6      10.7       6.7       7.6
Domestic                              3.2       3.7       5.5       0.7       1.6       1-3       0.8       3-.0
Banking System                      0.6       0.5       2.7       0.3       1.4       3.8       1.4       3.0
Central Bank                      (-)      (0.5)    (1.2)    (0.2)        (-)      (0.7)   (-0.2)    (2.7)
IMF Facil. & Trust Fund          (0.6)      (-)      (1-5)    (0.1)      (1.8)     (4-1)    (0.6)    (0-3)
Commercial Banks                  (-)       (-)       (-)       (-)    (-0.4)   (-1.0)    (1.0)         (-)
Treasury                            2.6       2.4      -0.7      -0.2       0.6       0.1       0.4
Arrears                              -        0.8       3.2       0.8      -0.4      -2.6      -1.0
Other                                -         -        0.3        -         -         -         -         -
Foreign                               2.1       2.4       2.7       8.2       8.0       9.4       5.9        4.6
Grants                              1.8       1.6       0.4       5.8       7.4       5.6       5.0       4.5
Loans                                -         -        0.6       1.4       0.6       3.8       0.9       0.1
Arrears                             0.3       0.8       1.4       0.8        -         -         -         -
Other                                -         -        0.3       0.2        -         -         -         -
Memaorandum Items (external debt)
1. Amortization due                                                              4.8        3.5      4.7        4.7
2. Debt relief                                                                     -        2.7       1.3       3.2
3. Arrears (net)                                                                  3.9        -        2.3      -3.5
E. Monetary Survey
1. Money and Quasi-Money                19.3      20.5      22.5      27.1      36.6      45.3      48.7      54.9
2. Domestic Credit                      22.6      25.5      30.2      27.4      37.2      43.1      45.9      52.8
Credit to Public Sector             9.7      10.8      12.0      11.8    (13-7)   (18.7)   (15.8)   (18.8)
Credit to Private Sector           12.9      14.7      18.2      15.6    (23.5)   (24.4)   (30.1)   (34.0)
3. Money and Quasi-Money as
% of GDP                           18.0      16.9      16.9      19.0      21.7      24.0      22.5      21.8
4. Domestic Credit as % of GDP          21.1       21.0      22.7      19.2     22.1       22.8      21.2     21.0
February 1983



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(in millions of US current dollars)
Estimates       Program
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983
Exports, incl. NFS                                           108.5    132.3    135.2    141.0    162.3    137.3    111.1    124.9
Imports, incl NFS                                           -144.0   -184.0   -199.5   -224.3   -327.0   -247.0   -225.1   -226.9
Resource Balance                                             -35.5    -51.7    -64.3    -83.3   -164.7   -109.7   -113.7   -102.0
Factor Services (net)                                         -3.4    -13.4       -1.8       0.0      30.3      37.9      30.5     29.2
Net Investment Income                                       -1.7      -1.6      -5.3      -2.4      -1.4       5.2       5.4      2.9
Interest on Public Debt                                     -0.4      -1.2      -0.9      -0.5      -0.5     -1.8      -2.0      -4.3
Other                                                       -1.3    -10.6        4.4       2.9      32.2      34.5     27.1      30.6
Current Transfers (private)                                   -4.3      -0.8      -8.0    -12.2    -18.9    -14.0    -11.7    -12.9
Current Account Balance (exci. public transfers)             -43.2    -65.9    -74.1       -95.5   -153.3    -85.8    -94.9    -85.7
Public Transfers (net)                                        46.2      35.4      51.9      91.2    101.3       82.1     65.1      65.7
Private Capital (net)                                         19.2       6.9       7.1      35.7      16.1       6.3       3.4      2.9
Public M & L Term Loans (net)                                 15.4      19.5      20.8      13.2      42.6      23.5      15.7     14.6
Disbursements                                              (17.1)   (22.8)   (24.4)   (13.6)   (46.9)   (26.1)   (17.7)   (19.4)
Repayments                                                 (-1.7)   (-3.3)   (-3.6)   (-0.4)   (-4.3)   (-2.6)   (-2.0)   (-4.8)
SDR and Trust Fund                                             1.9       1.8       8.5       1.9       2.4       1.8        -         -
Short Term Capital                                            -8.5      13.0    -14.6       -1.4       9.0      -4.8       1.7     -2.9
Errors and Omissions                                         -15.2      -5.8      -9.8    -21.6       -5.3    -14.6        4.7       -
Overall Balance (Increase in Reserves +)                      15.8       4.9    -10.2       23.5      12.8      8.5      -4.3      -5.4
Level of net foreign assets (end of year)                      4.0      -4.6    -10.9       15-3      30-5      33.2     18.6        -
Rate of Exchange                                             234.0    245.6    225.6    212.7    211.3    271.7    350.0    350.0
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(in millions of US current dollars)
Estimates       Program
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983
Exports, f.o.b.
Diamonds                                                    14.5      22.4      35.0     36.7      38.3      33.1      25.4      28.0
Coffee                                                      18.4      44.0      27.9     29.1      34.1      23.6      24.9      28.3
Timber                                                      18'.4     18.7      21.3     26.3      34.1      31.3      20.9      21.1
Cotton                                                      21.4      19.5      11.1     10.3      18.0      18.4       9.4      14.0
Tobacco                                                      5.6       7.7       6.6       4.7      5.2       5.2       3.1       3.4
Other                                                        4.2       4.1      20.8     24.0      25.1      15.5      19.7      20.3
Total                                                       82.5    116.4    122.7    131.1    154.8    127.1    103.4    115.1
Share in % of Total
Diamonds                                                    17.6      19.2      28.5     28.0      24.7      26.0      24.6      24.3
Coffee                                                      22.3      37.8     22.7      22.2      22.0      18.6      24.1      24.6
Timber                                                      22.3      16.1      17.4     20.0      22.0      24.6      20.2      18.3
Cotton                                                      25.9      16.8      9.0       7.9      11.6      14.5       9.1      12.2
Tobacco                                                      6.8       6.6       5.4       3.6      3.4       4.1       3.0       3.0
Other                                                        5.1       3.5      17.0      18.3     16.2      12.2      19.1      17.6
Total                                                      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1981
(in millions of US dollars)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                              239.2
Public Debt, incl. undisbursed                             265.7
IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1982
(in millions of US dollars)
Outstanding and Disbursed                                   35.3
Undisbursed                                                 22.1
Total                                                       57.4
DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1982
Public Debt, excluding arrears                               3.6%
Public Debt, including arrears                              12.6%
Februarv 1983



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
k       A.  Statement of IDA Credits  (as of March 31, 1983)
Credit                                                    Amount (US$ million)
number          Year    Borrower   Purpose               Total 1/   Undisbursed
Five Credits have been fully disbursed.                   28.7
894-CA         1979      CAR        Livestock             2.5             1.6
1074-CA         1980      CAR       Third Highway
Supl. Financing       4.5            0.2
1150-CA         1981      CAR       Technical Ass't.       4.0             1.9
1258-CA         1982     CAR        Highways IV           18.0           18.0
TOTAL     57.7            21.7
- of which has been repaid:           0.4
- now outstanding                   57.3
B. Statement of IF* Investments
Nil.
1/   Less cancellations



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 847-CA    Highways III Project: US$15.5 Million Credit of
November 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Credit No. 1074-CA   Supplementary Financing for Highways III Project:
3.5 Million SDRs (US$4.5 million) Credit of December
24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project consisted of the reconstruction and paving of the Bangui-
Bossembele road (145 km), the construction of a two-lane bridge over the
M'Bali River, and i;he provision to the Directorate-General of Public Works of
consultants' services for engineering and supervision works. Civil works on
the road and the bridge have been completed satisfactorily. Some authorized
complementary works remain to be completed. The Supplementary Credit and
supplementary financing from the Kuwait Fund were needed to make up the short-
fall of funds which arose largely because of currency exchange rate fluctua-
tions. The Government has complied substantially with the covenants of the
Credit Agreement. A project completion report has been issued.
Credit No. 894-CA    Livestock I Project: US$2.5 Million Credit of April
10, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1980;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The project was designed to develop livestock production and improve
nutrition and the living conditions of one of the poorest segments of the
CAR's population, the M'Bororo herdsmen. It consisted of four main compo-
nents: (a) provision of animal health services in the western half of the
country; (b) strengthening the Government's Livestock Service; (c) introduc-
tion and testing of simple pasture management techniques, based on herdsmen's
associations in a pilot zone;  and (d) training.  After two years of project
implementation, the initial approach failed. Despite improved training,
better transport facilities, new equipment, and the availability of drugs,
members of the veterinary service did not feel motivated to visit herders.
Topia, the site for the pilot range improvements scheme, proved badly selected
because it was atypical and permitted no contact with traditional M'Bororo
herdsmen. The Bouar College produced veterinary assistants for a civil
1/   This note is designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects which are being implemented and to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. It should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
it does not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project implementation.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
service which was (and continued to be) overcrowded and cid not need addition-
al staff for the next five years. In October 1982, the rroject was redesigned
and now has the following components:
(a)  Animal Health.  The national Association of Liv-stock Producers
(ANEC) now sells animal health drugs. The proj~-ct is strengthening
ANEC's administrative capacity through financin. a headquarters
building and an expatriate financial controller (who is already in
place).
(b)  Field Training.  A mobile training unit has beer established to hold
simple animal health courses in the field for ttie sons of livestock
owners, enabling them to treat their own animal-,,
(c)  Formal Training.  Upon acceptance at the Bouar &ollege, students no
longer automatically become Government officials, but they do receive
scholarships. They will be employed by the Government's livestock
service only if the service needs additional staff.
(d) Pasture Improvement. A new site was chosen for the pasture improve-
ment scheme.
The Credit Agreement is being amended accordingly.
Credit No. 1150-CA   Technical Assistance Project: 3.3 Million SDRs
(US$4.0 million) Credit of July 16, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project consists of (a) project preparation and start-up activi-
ties for the Fourth Highway Project and the proposed Rural Development Project
in the Cotton Zone; (b) execution of sector studies in the forestry sector
and the diamond sector; (c) four resident technical advisers, including a
project coordinator/economic adviser, a legal expert, an external-debt expert,
and an agricultural programs coordinator; (d) an organizational review of the
civil service;  and (e) further studies, training, consultants' services, and
related activities for which a need is identified during project implemen-
tation.
(a)  Project preparation.  The preparation of the Fourth Highway Project
was begun under an advance from the Project Preparation Facility
which was automatically refinanced when the technical assistance pro-
ject became effective. Project preparation of the Fourth Highway
Project has continued under the technical assistance project until
the Credit for the Fourth Highway Project became effective on
January 24, 1983. Preparation in the field of the proposed Cotton
Area Rural Development Project was undertaken in October-November
1981, and the final report was published in April 1982.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
(b) Sector Studies. Field work for the forestry sector study was
undertaken in January-February 1982, and the final report was pub-
lished in May 1982. Field work for the diamond sector study began in
March 1983.
(c)  Resident teclnical advisers.  The legal expert arrived in September
1981 and acted as project coordinator until March 1, 1982, when the
project coorcdinator arrived.  The agricultural programs coordinator
started work in Bangui in early April 1982, and the external-debt
expert began work in Bangui in June 1982.
(d) Review of the Civil Service. The Canadian Ecole Nationale
d'Administration Publique was chosen to carry out this review and
undertook field work in the CAR in May-June 1982. Their first-phase
report appeared in October 1982. Their second visit to the CAR was
in November 1982; the report on that phase is under preparation.
Their terms of reference have been modified at the Government's
request in order to provide immediate assistance in the task of
reducing the size of the civil service.
(e) Further studies, training, consultants' services, etc. Studies of
the CAR's banking system and public-enterprise system were carried
out in May 1982. A study of the major transport corridors from the
CAR to the sea was carried out in late 1982.
Due to the later-than-expected recruitment of some of the resident
experts, the project may not be completed by June 30, 1984, as originally
foreseen. Disbursements are somewhat behind schedule, but most of the Credit
has been committed.  The project appears to be accomplishing its goals;  the
experts, in particular, have already made substantial contributions to the
Government's reconstruction efforts.
Credit No. 1258-CA Highways IV Project: US$18.0 Million Credit of July
29, 1982; Effectiveness Date: not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The project consists of the rehabilitation of 1,217 km of gravel
roads and -the reconstruction of two already paved roads (108 km), all part of
the priori-ty network, the provision of equipment and buildings to support road
maintenance activities, the provision of consultants for construction super-
vision, maintenance, studies, and planning, and the training of national
personnel. Preparation has been completed (financed first with funds from a
PPF advance and then under Credit 1150-CA, the Technical Assistance
Project). An international competitive tender has recently been successfully
completed to choose the contractor for the IDA-financed rehabilitation com-
ponents. The project is being cofinanced by France (FAC), the Kuwait Fund,
the OPEC Fund, the African Development Fund, and the DeveLopment Bank of the
Central African States (BDEAC).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project:               Two years
(b)   Project prepared by:                             Government and
UNESCO/Bank
Cooperative Program
(c)   Date of first IDA mission to consider
the project:                                     July 1980
(d)   Date of departure of appraisal mission:          August 1982
(e)   Negotiations completed:                          March 22, 1983
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:                   August 1983
Section II.   Special IDA Implementation Actions
PPF advances totalling US$800,000 equivalent have been approved to
help finance detailed preparation activities, including final approval of all
construction sites, pre-selection of construction and transport contractors,
briefing of local entrepreneurs in bid preparation procedures, and training of
local site supervisors (para. 35).
Section III. Special Conditions
The Government has provided assurances on the following principal
items:
(a)   DCEBS and DEPS will be reorganized, with management structure and
staffing satisfactory to IDA, by December 31, 1983 (paras 37
and 40); and
(b)   a detailed plan for the implementation of the Government's educa-
tion development strategy, including a school location plan and a
comprehensive financing plan, will be prepared and submitted to IDA
for review by December 31, 1984 (para. 40).
As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit, the
Government will submit evidence that an initial deposit of CFAF 10 million has
been made into a separate Project Account established for its local contribu-
tions to project costs (para. 44).



