Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10702
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1357-BD)
JUNE 12, 1992
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -    Taka (Tkj
US$1.00          -    Tk 34.90
Tk 1.00          -    US$0.0287
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                             -    0.159 cubic meter (m3)
1 cubic foot (CF)                          -    0.028 (m3)
1 British thermal unit (Btu)               -    0.252 kilocalori_..  (kcal)
1 metric ton (mt) of oil, 0.85 sp.gr.      -    7.4 bbl
1 kilometer (km)                           -    0.621 mile
MCF                                        -    thousand standard cubic feet
MMCFD                                      -    million standard cubic feet per
day
mtpy                                       -    metric tons per year
BCF                                        -    billion cubic feet
TCF                                        -    trillion (1,000 billion) cubic
feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPC      -   Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
CNG      -   Compressed Natural Gas
ERL      -   Eastern Refinery Limited
GOB      -   Government of Bangladesh
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -   International Development Association
LPG      -   Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LPGL     -  Liquefied Petroleum Gas Limited
NGL      -  Natural Gas Liquid(s)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washinqton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
C0 of Dieect.-.Ceoetal
Opmtb Evauti
June 12, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVL DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1357-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Bangladesh Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1357-BD)" prepared by the South
Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1357-BD)
Table of Contents
2Paa No.
Preface   .  .  .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
Evaluation Summary  .                .  . . . . ..  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  ii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I1
Background .... . . . . . . . . ..                                      1
Policy Context .... . . . . . . . ..                                    1
Linkages Between Project, Sector and Macro Policy Objectives  . .       2
Macro Policy Objectives   ......... ..... ..                             2
Project Objectives and Description  ... .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...  2
Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4
Project Implementation  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .         6
Project Results ...7
Project Sustainablity . . . ..10
IDA Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      10
Borrower Performance..                              .  . . . .   ;      11
Project Relationship  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .   .  13
Consulting Services   ....  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .   .  13
Project Documentation and Data  ... .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .   .  13
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FRCM BORROWER's PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .       14
Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       14
Energy Monitoring Unit (EMU).           . . . . . . . . . . .    .      19
University of Engineering and Technology.                        .      47
Bangladesh Oil and Mineral Corporation (BOGMC) . . . . . . . . . .      54
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   .  60
Related Bank Credits ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........   .  60
Project Timetable  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .   .  60
Credit Disbursement  ....    .. ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......   .    61
Project Implementation ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  62
Project Costs and Financing  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......   .   62
Project Results  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........  .   .  63
Status of Covenants  ....  .  .  .  .  .    .. . .  .  ......  .        65
Missions ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........  .   .  66
ANNEXES
Summary of Financial Performance (ERL) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      67
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1357-BD)
PREFQ
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Energy
Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project in Bangladesh for which Credit
1357-BD in the amount of US$28.5 million was approved on May 10, 1983. The
Credit was closed on December 31, 1989, three years behind schedule. US$16.8
million was disbursed and US$9.9 million was canceled upon Credit closing.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division, Country Department 1, Asia Region and the Esrgy Division of the
Asia Technical Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and
the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during IDA's final supervision
mission in December 1989, and is baaed, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence
between IDA and the Bo rower; and internal IDA memoranda.



- $i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORi
BANGLADESH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1357-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
(i)       The main objectives of the Project were to assist Bangladesh to
reduce the cost of imported petroleum, initiate energy conservation activities
and promote the use of domestic natural gas.
Implementation Experience
(ii)      In retrospect, IDA's appraisal estimates of the time needed for
project implementation were over-optimistic and were exceeded by as much as
1OOZ. A major cause of delays was GOB's approval procedures for the award of
contracts.
(iii)     About a third of the Credit was canceled, partly due to components
not being completed (Eastern Refinery's jetty) or no longer required (part two
of gas based projects study). The strengthening of the SDR against the US$
during the project period led to substantial savings for the refinery
rehabilitation component, which contributed to the amount canceled.
(iv)      The implementation arrangements between the five implementing
agencies and consultants were adequate and permitted reasonably efficient
coordination of project activities; however, GOB approval delays could not be
avoided.
Results
(v)       The project achieved its main objectives:  the efficiency and
reliability of the refinery (ERL) were improved, energy conservation measures
were initiated, a Energy Monitoring Unit (EMU) was established and energy
audits were carried out, a Gas Based Feasibility Study was carried out (but no
viable projects were identified) and research on the alternate uses for
methanol was started. A National Gas Grid Study required to identify the
investments and institutional arrangements needed to develop the overall gas
transmission network was added to the project in August 1986, and has provided
the basis for the future development of the gas transmission network. The
economic rate of return of the refinery component (42%) was below appraisal
estimates (68Z), but still satisfactory; the lower return was mainly due to
unforeseen changes in international prices for crude oil and petroleum
products.



- iii -
Sustainabilitv
(vi)      The benefits of the refinery rehabilitation will remain, provided
noreal maintenance of facilities is undertaken. The activities of the EMU and
research initiated under the project are expected to continue.
Findings and Lessons Learned
(vii)     The necessary approvals by GOB took substantially more time than
expected. A rsvision of GOB approval procedures and/or delegation of more
authority to the implementing agencies would be required for efficient project
implementation.
(viii)    The conclusion of the Gas-based Feasibility Study, namely that there
were no viable gas-based chemical projects, couid have been reached earlier.
A closer monitoring could have interrupted the study and saved some funds.
(ix)      Project preparation and design were well done and facilitated the
coordination and implementation of various project components among five
different implementing agencies.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1357-BD)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Project Name:        Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project
Credit No:           Cr. 1357-BD
Vice Presidency:    Asia
Country:             Bangladesh
Sector:              Energy
Sub-Sector:          Petroleum
2.   Prolect Background
2.1       Energy is critical to the  Bangladesh's economic development.  A
major obstacle to accelerating economic growth has been the increasing cost of
energy inputs and widening gap between energy demand and indigenous energy
production. Closi.ig this gap exclusively through energy imports would result
in a heavy drain of foreign exchange. Rationing energy supplies, particularly
kerosene and diesel oil of which Bangladesh is critically short, would on the
other hand lead to social unrest and serious economic disruptions. The
Government's strategy is to reduce the net cost of energy imports through
(i) substitution of natural gas, with which the country is abundantly endowed,
including natural gas liquids and liquified petroleum gas (LPG); (ii) energy
conservation; (iii) improving the refinery's processing and production
efficiency, when investments for such imiprovements can be justified;
(iv) balancing crude oil and product imports to minimize the net cost to the
country; and (iv) strengthening administrative and technical skills of
institutions engaged in energy production, processing and marketing
activities, e.g. through training and improved management information systems.
The Energy Efficiency and Refinery ReLabilitation Project included components
which addressed all of these sector objectives.
3.   Policy Context
3.1       It is Government of Bangladesh's (GOB's) policy to maximize the use
of indigenous energy, specifically natural gas, natural gas liquids and
liquified petroleum gas and ultimately coal in the future, to displace
imported petroleum products, to the extent economically feasible and t( limit
petroleum product imports primarily fur transportation.  To this end, GOB has,



-2-
under the two gas distribution projects, commenced to establish a network of
natural gas distribution pipplines to supply the domestic, commercial and
industrial sectors, displacing either directly or indirectly petroleum fuels.
4.   Linkages Between Project, Sector and Macro Policy Objectives
4.1       The Project comprised five princinal components: (i) refinery
rehabilitation; (ii) technical assistance to improve Bangladesh Petroleum
Corporation's (BPC's) accounting and management information systems; (iii)
energy efficiency improvementb in Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL); (iv) Gas-
based project feasibility studies; and (v) research and development. The
Project's rehabilitation    - ient was designed to improve the refinery's
mechanical integrity and er ,j efficiency, a major sector objective. This
component also included a study to ident;fy processing configuration
modifications to reduce production of fuel oil in the refinery's output mix
wvhch would be needed with increased substitution of natural gas for fuel oil,
linked to GOB's policy of maximiziag the use of indigenous energy resources.
The BPC technical assistance component was focussed towards the sector
objective of improving the efficiency of institutions in the petroleum sector
by training staff and improving/establishing better accounting and management
information systems. The energy efficiency component met the sectoral
objective of energy conservation. The gas-based feasibility study endeavored
to find expanded uses for natural gas and the research component to identify
alternate uses for gas. The Project thus addressed a sectoral objective and
the GOB policy of maximizing the use of indigenous resources.
5.   Project Objectives and Description
5.1       The main objectives of the Project were to assist Bangladesh to:
(i) reduce the cost of imported petroleum;
(ii) initiate energy conservation activities; and
(iii) carry out the necessary preparatory work to capture the foreign
exchange potential of its substantial natural gas reserves. The
Project was identified during a joint IDA-ADB energy assessment
mission in October 1981. Its structure and design were guided by
this mission's key recommendations accepted by GOB.
5.2       The Project consisted of the five components referred to in para.
4.1. The five subcomponents are described in detail below:
(a) Refinery Rehabilitation Component. The Eastern Refinery Limited
(ERL) is the only refinery in Bangladesh. ERL refinery, which is of
austere design produces only straight-run product- from crude
distillation. The refinery product mix is dominated by fuel oil and
differs substantially from market demand patterns, resulting in the
production of excess naphtha and fuel oil, which have So be exported
at depressed prices. At the same time, because of the mismatch
between production and demand, kerosene and diesel oil are in
deficit and have to be imported at premium prices. Besides the



-3-
basic structural inadequacy, at appraisal the retinery was also
found to be in a poor state of mechanical repair, energy inefficient
and the staff inadequate and poorly trained. Also, the refinery
fire-fighting equipment were inadequate and safety standards either
did not exist or were not complied with. The refinery
rehabilitation project addressed all the deficiencies, to some
exter.t. Immediately after appraisal critically required financial
assistance was provided to replace or rehabilitate equipment that
were either not operating or on the verge of total collapse and were
posing a safety hazard to operating personnel and the refinery.
Funds were earmarked to esteblish training facilities and to train
staff in refineries abroad and commission a detailed refinery study
to identify modifications to the processing configuration to reduce
the mismatch between refinery production and consumption and
facilitate the substitution of natural gas for fuel oil.
The Refinery Rehabilitation Component consisted of four sub-
components:
Ci) provision of equipment, materials and engineering services to
carry out repairs, replacement and maintenance of tanks,
furnaces, columns, vessels, pumps, comprersors, pipes etc., to
restore the mechanical integrity of the refinery and increase
the capacity utilization by about 152, reduce refinery
petroleum fuel consumption and losses, and displace about
36,000 tons per year of residual fuel oil used in the refinery
furnaces by the substitution of natural gas;
(ii) 138 man-months of project implementation, operating and
maintenance expertise to assist ERL to carry out the
rehabilitation work and operate and maintain the refinery in a
mechanically efficient and safe manner;
(iii) training, including 36 man-months of services of a training
manager to upgrade the skills of refinery staff already in
service and others to be recruited; and
(iv) 320 man-months, including an estimated 295 man-months of
expertise from specialized consultants, to carry out a study to
debottleneck the refinery and determine the appropriate
secondary conversion and additional capacity required to
reduce/eliminate tie imbalance between refinery production and
the country's demand.
(b) BPC Accounting and Management Information Systems Technical
Assistance Component. This component consisted of two parts:
(i) 45 man-months of services from an experienced accounting and
management information systems consulting firm to review the
accounting, control and management information systems in use
at BPC and to design an improved system to support BPC
operations; and



-4-
(ii) relevant training abroad of up to eight senior and middle-level
BPC management staff.
(c) Energy Efficiency Component. This component consisted of fovr
parts:
(i) 110 staff-months of consulting services to assist the GOB EMU
to prepare and carry out a long-term national industrial energy
conservation program and conduct energy audits ir. up to 40
medium to large scale energy consuming enterprises in the
chemicals, fertilizer, pulp and paper, steel and metal works,
textiles jute, cement, brick and clay, sugar, tea, and tobacco
indusiries and power plants;
(ii)  mobile energy measuring equipment for use by EMU staff;
(iii) overseas training for EMU staff; and
(iv) developing a library of relevant literature on energy
conservation.
(d) Gas-Based Projects Feasibility Studies Component. This component
consisted of the provision of 140 man-months of specialized
consultancy services. The study was set-up to be carried out in two
stages. The Phase 1 scope comprised: (i) identification of the
potential use for natural gas up to the year 2005; (ii) a detailed
review of the domestic, regional and world markets of the major end-
uses for natural gas; and (iii) preliminary capital and operating
cost estimates, net present values and economic rates of return for
each natural gas based project. On completion of Part 1, and if GOB
and IDA were to agree that projects identified by the consultant
were prima facie beneficial to GOB, to carry out detailed
feasibility studies on these proiects, including project design and
an implementation and funding strategy to attract foreign investors.
(e) Research and Development. Research activities to assess the
suitability of methanol as a liquid fuel by itself or as fuel blends
for use in the domestic and ir.dustrial sectors.
6.   Project Design and Organization
6.1       The joint IDA-ADB mission in 1981 ,eviewed in detail Bangladesh's
commercial energy requirements and options for exploiting indigenous energy
resources and minimizing the net cost of imported energy. The study pointed
out weaknesses in the energy sector's management structure, the poor state of
mechanical repair of facilities, the high energy consumption in industries and
the high potential for exploiting the country's natural gas resources. The
Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project's design took cognizance
of some of the immediate requirements in the energy sector, including energy
conservation. The Project was well-designed and addressed and initiated



measures to strengthen two of the key agencies in the sector, the BPC and the
Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL), commissioned relevant studies and provided
technical assistance for a range of activities.
6.2       Although the Project comprised five components and implementation
responsibility was spread over an equal number of agencies, coordination of
project implementation activities did not present any problems as the Project
concept was clearly understood by all parties involved. ERL was the
implementing agency for the technical assistance (TA). The EMU was created
and was responsible for the mncrgy monitoring activities for the Gas-Based
Project Feasibility Studies of the Bangladesh Oil, Gas and Hineral Corporation
(BOGMC), and the Bangladesh University of Engineering was responsible for the
Methanol Research Component. The Ministry of Petroleum and Energy Resources
coordinated progress review meetings. Each implementing agency carried out
its assigned responsibilities and submitted quarterly progress reports to IDA.
The objectives of the different components were consistent with the overall
sector objectives.  While the Project concepts were not innovative, the
integration of several diverse activities under a single project was new. The
Project scope was realistic, and all the components had the common feature of
representing the initial steps required to achieve a cost effective petroleum
products supply program. The scale and expectations were modest, appropriate
and timely. The Project was well prepared.
.i.3      While the different agencies' roles and functions were well defined
at the inception of the Project implementation cycle, subsiequent reallocation
of responsibilities among agencies had some adverse impact on Project
implementation. The Gas-Based Feasibility Study provides an illustrative
example. This study was initially to be monitored by the Planning Commission.
Honitoring responsibility was then shifted to the Bangladesh Chemicals and
Industrial Corporation (BCIC) and finally to the BOGCM. The study in
retrospect was not monitored very effectively. The study ran its full course
and led to the conclusion that there were no economically viable gas-based
chemical projects. The consultants studied 62 natural gaE-derived products.
Detailed, voluminous reports were prepared; 56 projects studied were reported
to be unattractive, only six were recommended by the consultants for detailed
feasibility studies.  In hindsight all 62 projects should have gone through a
screening stage, where assessments coald have been made to determine, whether
prima facie the projects offered promise, before committing substantial
consultant time. A screening stage may have considerably reduced staffmonths
expended to conclude that the 54 projects would not be viable.
6.4       With regard to the six projects recommended for detailed feasibility
study by the consultant, IDA's review indicated that some of the projects
lacked the gas reserves or the economies of scale to be viable and were
clearly uneconomic.  GOB and IDA jointly decided not to pursue these projects
and the consultancy was terminated. With proper monitoring, this conclusion
could have been reached much earlier, and the study could have closed with a
substantial savings of funds.
6.5       Overall, the engagement of qualified and experienced consultants and
experts contributed most to the success of the refinery rehabilitation, EHU
and BPC MIS assistance components. Technip, an engineering and construction



-6-
company, provided initial assistance to ERL to identify refinery equipment
that were critical to the safe operation of the refinery, but were in a poor
state of repair. IPEDEX assisted ERL to rehabilitate the training center,
develop training material and manuals for inhouse training of s&aff and
trained staff as well as future instructors. Lummus provided project
implementation assistance as well as conducted the refinery modification study
and the engineering design for the modification of the refinery, which is now
under implementation. The Gas-Based Feasibility study, though somewhat of a
disappointment since there were no potentially viable projects, and the
conclusions were reached after substantial consultant time, nevertheless
assisted GOB to limit aspirations of export-oriented gas based projects, based
on curren* commercially exploitable natural gas reserves. The Research and
Development component carried out research to assess the technical feasibility
of using methanol as a domestic cooking and lighting fuel and as an industrial
fuel with the assistance of Institute Francais du Petrole (IFP). Further work
is needed to establish the safety and technical means of airmass uses of
methanol. The initial work done would prove a useful basis for further
research.
7.   Project Implementation
7.1       The most critical variances occurred with respect to (i) IDA's
estimates of time required to invite tenders, award contracts, and implement
different project components; and (ii) the consequent lag in disbursements
compared to SAR estimates. The delays with regard to project implementation,
affected all project components including studies and engagement of
consultants. IDA's over optimistic estimates of implementatior time were
exceeded by as much as 10OZ. The credit was approved by the Board on May 10,
1983, and became effective on March 23, 1984. The original closing date was
December 31, 1986 and was extended thrice up to December 31, 1989. A request
for a fourth extension was denied. The project implementation stretched over
84 months, without being completed, compared to the 48 months SAR estimate.
The SAR estimate can be considered normal for a developing country like
Bangladesh for a Project of this nature. The time taken by GOB agencies,
however, was abnormal. A variance of this magnitude occurred primarily due to
procurement delays, which this PCR discusses in detail under Borrower
Performance. Overlapping chains of responsibilities and bottle-necks at the
different levels of approval, frequently beyond that of the implementing
agencies caused many of the delays. A number of serious complaints were
lodged relating to the way the bid evaluation for some major contract was
handled. Avoiding delays of this nature and reducing the number of complaints
requires a fundamental revision of GOB's approval processes, delegation of
greater authority to the implementing agencies and reduction of approval
stages.
7.2       The large disbursement lag (see Part III, para. 3) resulted from
credit effectiveness being delayed by about six months and project
implementation delays of another two years. Measured in US$, the project was
less costly to implement than projected, mainly due to: the strengthening of
the SDR against the USS by about 25Z during the project period (most contracts
were in US$); contingeiicies based on projected annual inflation rates of 6-8?
p.a. (actual inflation was about 3.5? p.a. according to the MUV index); and a



-7-
recession in the petroleum industry that led to 'wewr prices than projected
for equipment as well as consultancies. Further, some project items (Merox
and LPG facilities) were funded under a French Government grant and not under
the IDA Credit as originally planned. Consequently, only about 60? of the SDR
26.5 million credit was used.
7.3       Given the fact that five implementing agencies were involved,
project coordination and implementation were identified by IDA as a major
risk. The design of Project components took this into account, and
implementation arrangements were structured to include consultants' services.
While approval delays were beyond the control of the implementing agencies,
the implementation strategy was sound and enabled IDA to coordinate the
implementation of different components reasonably efficiently.
8.   Project Results
8.1       Overall, the five project components achieved their objectives.  Of
the five components, the refinery rehabilitation, EHU and BPC TA best
demonstrate the success of the Project. Of the other t-.  components, the Gas
Board Feasibility Study results revealed that there were no economically
viable projects. The Research and Development Project Component did not
result in the development of any alternate uses for m shanol.
8.2       The Refinery Rehabilitation Project Component.  The rationale for
this component was explained in detail in previous sections. The economic
rate of return for the refinery rehabilitation is estimated at 42Z against the
appraised 682; the decline was mainly due to lower refinery margins than
estimated at appraisal. The physical achievements of the project are
summarized below.
Before Proiect                      After Project                   Remarks
Capacity 1.3 mmtpa Crude Oil        Capacity 1.5           Increased operating
mmtpa                  efficiency
Own fuel oil/gas consumption        reduced to less        An estimated annual
about 8 vol. Z                      than 4 vol. Z          savings of over US$1
million
Fuel oil was used as                Switched to            Increased the use of
refinery fuel                       natural gas            indigenous energy
8.3       The above represent quantifiable results.  In addition the other
contributions by the project are:
(a)  significant improvements to the mechanical integrity of the
refinery; refinery production interruptions due to mechanical
failures have been virtually eliminated from a frequency of 4 to 5
interruptions per month before the project.



-8-
(b)  the refinery fire-fighting equipment was brought up to minimum
requirements (though not to the level of refineries in
industrialized countries), including the addition of an articulate
fire truck;
(c) refinery now conducts regular fire-drills, where no such drills were
practiced piAor to the project;
(d) the training center is now active and training staff regularly;
(e) training was provided to several technical staff abroad;
(f) the refinery laboratory is now fully operational and has the
capability to carry out analytical work needed for quality control
of products;
(g) the refinery's appearance had undergone a marked change, from a
dilapidated looking facility to that of a reasonably well-
maintained plant;
(h) the refinery's housekeeping practices have improved considerably;
(i) refinery staff, besides strengthening there capabilities, gained
substantial project management experience; and
Cj) based on the results of the refinery study conducted under the
project, modification of the refinery's configuration under IDA
Credit Cr. 1749-BD is in progress.
8.4       With regard to the refinery's financial operations, at appraisal the
primary objective was to rehabilitate the refinery. The refinery was, for all
intents and purposes, an extension of BPC. Its role was to process crude oil
supplied to it by BPC for which it was paid a fixed fee per barrel of crude
oil processed which was calculated to cover all operating costs. In addition
the refinery received 50? of any savings in the fuel oil/gas saved based on
norms set by BPC. Though the method adopted to reimburse the refinery was not
satisfactory, it was considered premature to impose new methodology. Refinery
reimbursement was addressed under the ongoing refinery modification project
(Cr. 1749-BD).
8.5       BPC TA.  The BPC accounting was streamlined, establishing each of
its subsidiaries as a cost center. The management information system now
provides data pertaining to each subsidiary periodically, which allow BPC to
monitor their operating efficiency. The computerization of BPC accounts is in
progress.
8.6       The Energy Monitoring Unit.  The EMU conducted audits in 47
industries and power plants and identified the potential for energy
conservation. Except for switching to natural gas from fuel oil, no
substantial investments have been made by industries to implement EMU
recommendations. The energy audits conducted by EHU resulted in an Industrial



-9-
Energy Efficiency Project, which was funded by IDA. The funds allocated have
not been utilized by industrir s due partly to the sharp decline in price of
crude oil in 1986 and the lo-. priority industries accorded energy conservation
projects.
8.7       The Gas-Based Feasibility Study.  The Study recommended six projects
ior further detailed feasibility study. Four of the projects, Anhydrous
Ammonia, Methanol, Urea and LNG were proposed as export-oriented industries,
except for Methanol, which the consultants thought could have a domestic
market as well. All the projects have a major element of risk as they are
subject to international demand and competitive market forces. All four
projects have low economic rates of return. The capital required is
substantial and the projects could be undertaken only if foreign investors
have an interest. Bangladesh has to compete with large natural gas producing
countries like Indonesia in East Asia and the countries in the Middle East for
projects of this nature. Bangladesh's natural gas reserves are inadequate in
comparison and economies of scale and lack of infrastructure facilities making
the proposed projects non-competitive with others in the region. Given the
limited proven and commercially exploitable gas reserves, both IDA and GOB
concluded that detailed feasibility studies were not required. The National
Gas Grid Study for BOGMC reviewed the developments needed in the gas
transmission system to supply the forecast gas demand. The demand forecasts,
based on optimistic projections by the operating companies are considered to
be too high, and further detailed demand studies, and gas supply appraisal
studies are being carried out in the Gas Sector Review to update the long term
planning of the gas transmission system.
8.8       Two other projects were recommended for detailed feasibility study,
PVC and CNG for locomotives. The amount of natural gas that could be used in
the manufacture of PVC was very small. The study recommended PVC manufacture
with imported Vinyl Chloride Monomer in the first phase, where the demand for
natural gas is nil, and in the second phase relatively small. With regard to
CNG for locomotives, the study had not made any detailed analysis but has
suggested this as an option worth investigating. Since IDA was already
studying the feasibility of CNG in transportation and the investments for
modification of locomotive engines, establishing CNG facilities would be very
substantial, GOB was of the view that the railways should study the
feasibility of this option. IDA concurred with this view.
8.9       The Project objectives did not change during implementation.  No
significant variances are expected between planned and actual results. The
variances between appraisal and completion financial and economic rates of
return are relevant only with respect to the refinery rehabilitation
component, and arise primarily from changes in the international price of
crude oil and petroleum products, particularly the margin between the price of
petroleum products and crude oil. The differences in the financial rate of
return are mainly due to changes in domestic petroleum product retail prices.
8.10      The Project assisted GOB to promote the sectoral policy of
minimizing the cost of imported petroleum products and maximizing the use of
indigenous natural gas. The refinery's physical environment has improved
significantly due to reduction of flared hydrocarbon gases and of hydrocarbon



-10-
sludge and waste effluents, with corresponding environmental benefits. The
establishment of a training center and engagement of consultants have
contributed to strengthening of technical and management skills in the
implementing agencies.
9.   Project Sustainability
9.1       The sustainability of benefits again relates to the refinery
component. The refinery's economic and financial viability were improved
under the refinery project. The benefits of the rehabilitation will remain
unchanged over the estimated 20 years useful life of the equipment, provided
the refinery carries out normal preventive maintenance. The risk that the
margins between the prices of petroleum products and crude oil would be
reduced to levels t:.at would make the operation of the refinery unprofitable
will be reduced with the implementation of the refinery modification
component, as the output of premium value products will increase
substantially. The project provided the rationale and the design basis for
the modification of the refinery's processing configuration under the ongoing
Cr 1749-BD.
10. IDA Performance
10.1      IDA's contributions were fourfold: (i) assisting GOB agencies to
establish the design basis of the different project components; (ii)
developing procurement procedures consistent with IDA procurement guidelines
and assisting implementing agencies to adhere to these; (iii) engaging
consultants selectively to impart knowledge and experience lacking in the
different implementing agencies, and training Bangladeshis; and (iv) frequent
monitoring of project implementation. The staff at all implementing agencies,
but BOGMC, lacked adequate experience working on IDA financed projects. It
was a major learning experience for the various GOB agencies involved with the
different Project components. GOB staff were quick to grasp IDA procedures.
10.2      One main lesson learned relates to procurement.  There were
unnecessary delays. Some of these resulted from involvement of the Ministry
in the evaluation process. The normal practice in the award of contracts for
major items or procurement packages is for the implementing agencies to invite
tenders, evaluate offers received and recommend which bidders should be
awarded the contract. The evaluation process should be completed at this
stage. However, depending on the limits set for the implementing agency for
approval of expenditures, major award recommendations have to be approved by
the Ministry and the President. The intent of their review, ostensibly, is to
ensure that procedures have been followed, there are budgetary provisions for
the expenditures to be incurred and the Project components satisfy legal and
other requirements with respect to award of contracts. Rather than confining
the Ministry's role to these aspects, the Ministry has often decided to carry
out a second evaluation and ended up reversing the original decision as to Low
the contract should be awarded, even though it is less well equipped to
conduct a detailed technical evaluation than the implementing agency itself.
This kind of inappropriate intervention by the Ministry has resulted in
unnecessary delays, and in some instances, undermined the authority of
implementing agencies, with subsidiary agencies under them, such as BPC. In



-11-.
the next section, Borrower Performance, an illustrative example is given not
by way of faulting any agency, but to impress on future projects the need to
seek a greater delegation of responsibility to implementing agencies and a
definition of the scope of the Ministry's review. This would help IDA to
better assess the time required for project implementation and monitor and
should improve the quality of project procurement.
11. Borrower Performance
11.1      The main strength of the borrower was the dedicated (though limited
in numbers) staff in charge of the different project components. This staff
worked under difficult conditions and, for the most part, grasped project
objectives, IDA procurement procedures and other Project implementation
requirements quickly. Documentation prepared by the agencies were
comprehensive and done with great care. Reports were generally submitted in a
timely manner.
11.2      GOB made good use of consultancy services and training facilities
provided under the Project. During Project preparation, GOB, as well as
implementing agencies, extended the fullest cooperation to IDA staff. A
project implementation unit was set up for the largest of the component's
refinery rehabilitation. This component was implemented efficiently. Delays
that occurred were beyond the control of the Project implementation unit. The
Project managers on the other components also performed well. However, with
regard to the Gas-Based Feasibility Study, frequent changes of staff as well
as agencies responsible for implementation had adverse effects particularly on
the monitoring of the study. As stated earlier, the conclusions that emerged
from the study could have been drawn earlier at a lower cost to GOB.
11.3      The Borroweres performance could have been improved significantly,
if the implementing agencies had been given greater latitude in the evaluation
and selection of contractors and consultants, within agreed procurement
procedures and IDA guidelines. As stated earlier, under current GOB
administrative procedures, implementing agencies are required to submit their
evaluation to the Ministry for approval. This led to delays without adding to
the quality of the review and approach process and resulted in GOB having to
forfeit an IDA credit allocation of about US$10 million. Ministry
interfer-nce is unsatisfactory for two other reasons.  The reversal of major
award decisions without proper detailed justification leads to complaints from
bidders and lengthy exchanges between IDA and GOB. The authority of central
agencies like BPC which have subsidiary corporations is also undermined when
the subsidiaries reverse the central agency's decision in discussions directly
with the Ministry. Two examples of project delays are listed below to
illustrate the time that was lost at the Ministry level.
11.4      (i) The first concerns the award of a contract for the supply of a 3
MW steam turbine power generator. Tenders were called on August 26, 1984.
ERL evaluated the offers and disqualified all bidders except the offer of the
China International Water and Electric Corporation (CIWE). The
recommendations were submitted to BPC in December 1984. BPC reviewed the
evaluation and concluded that the disqualification of the other bidders could
not be justified, and directed ERL to evaluate all proposals. Ebara was then
found to have submitted the lowest evaluated offer, lower than the CIWE offer.
ERL decided that the EBARA offer was too high even though lower than the CIWE



-12-
offer, which ERL had previously recommended and recommended to the Ministry to
reject all proposals and call for fresh tenders. The Ministry at this stage
decided that EBARA should be disqualif'.ed, the contract should be awarded to
CIWE and sought IDA's concurrence. In the meantime Ebara had lodged a
complaint with IDA through the Japanese ED. On receipt of the GOB
recommendation, IDA reviewed the entire evaluation procedure and concluded
that the disqualification of Ebara could not be justified, and that Ebara's
offer was indeed the lowest evaluated bid. IDA informed GOB/BPC/ERL
accordingly on September 6, 1985. The Ministry disagreed with IDA's findings
and a spate of protests followed. Ultimately IDA advised GOB that it was
unable to agree with GOB's recommendation to award the contract to CIWE, and
GOB could procure the power generating set from CIWE, but IDA would cancel the
amount in the credit set aside for this item. Ultimately on March 27, 1986
GOB decided to award the contract to Ebara. The contract could have been
awarded by the end of April 1985, if the technical decisions were left in the
hands of BPC, who has monitoring responsibility for ERL operations. However,
it was ultimately awarded 12 months later.
11.5      Another reason for delays in award of contracts is the apparent lack
of or slow communications between implementing agencies and the Ministry.
Subjects that could be addressed or resolved in weeks have taken months.
Hatters that could be resolved over the telephone often become the subject of
lengthy memos and recriminations, each side taking a defensive role. An
illustrative example is the case of the oil jetty improvements that were to be
carried out under this Project. The prequalification documents were prepared
for this item in December 1987 and copies were sent to IDA and the Ministry
for comments/approval. IDA sent its comments in January 1988 and also advised
the Ministry on April 13, 1988 that ERD should write to IDA seeking an
amendment to the DCA. IDA in the meantime, expecting a quick response,
prepared a letter agreeing to the amendment. This draft was dated April 12,
1988. ERD's request ultimately came on February 26, 1989, almost 12 months
after initiating action by ERL. In the meantime ERL proceeded, albeit at a
slower pace because ERD's approval/request was slowing in coming, with calling
for bids. The technical evaluation was completed in August 1989 and sent to
IDA and the Ministry. IDA sent its no objection on September 15, 1989.
However, the Ministry refused to clear the evaluation on the grounds that the
prequalified list of bidders was not cleared by the Ministry even though ERL
had sent copies of all correspondence with IDA, among which was the
prequalification of three bidders. After IDA intervention, the technical
evaluation was finally cleared by the Ministry in December 1989. This
clearance should only have taken 2 weeks, compared to the 14 weeks it did.
After clearance, ERL was able to call for price offers. In the meantime as
the third credit extension was running out ERD requested a fourth extension,
mainly to -,mplete the jetty.  Given the unjustifiable delays, IDA did not
grant an extension.
12. Compliance with Covenants
12.1      The Borrower did not maintain adequate records for full
identification of local project costs (DCA,. Section 4.01) and, as from FY87,



-13-
ERL's debt/eouity ratio exceeded covenanted 65:35 (PA, Section 4.03). Other
covenants agreed under the projecz were complied with (see Part III, para. 7).
13. Financial Performance
13.1      The project's financial rate of return was llZ against the appraised
17Z; the decline was mainly due to project implementation delays, failure on
the part of BPC to increase ERL's processing fee, which has not been adjusted
since June 30, 1987 while inflation r.nd TK devaluation have increased ERL's
operating costs, reduction of crude oil throughput due to imbalances in supply
from the refinery and market demand for fuel oil and several other factors
which are described in detail in Part III, para. 6. For the same reasons,
ERL's financial performance during the project period was below appraisal
estimates (Part III, Annex 1). ERL's performance would have been even worse
without the project and an improvement is expected in FY92 due to recent
adjustment of ex-refinery prices.
14. Project Relationship
14.1      The main strength in the IDA-GOB relationship stemmed from the fact
that GOB viewed IDA as an impartial agency, which provided funding as well as
expert advise for the Project. The IDA-supported procedures for Project
implementation, were appreciated by the Beneficiaries, as they insulated the
implementation agency to some extent from outside interferences. Most GOB
agencies looked to IDA as a source of expert advise, either from IDA staff or
agencies available to IDA. However,one of the implementing agencies, ERL, was
of the view that IDA's monitoring role should be less vigorous. IDA staff
confined their activities during project implementation to ensuring that
agreed procurement procedures were followed and did not intrude on the
activities of the implementing agencies. On the whole, IDA's relationship
with GOB and its agencies was cordial.
15. Consulting Services
15.1      The consultants played an important role in the implementation of
various project components. During the National Grid review, the consultants
worked with BOGMC operating company staff to establish forecasts of gas supply
and demand, and the infrastructure needed to deliver gas to the markets. In
the refinery rehabilitation component, consultants assisted in designing the
rehabilitation of the refinery and implementing this component. With regard
to BPC's technical assistance, BPC staff worked with the consultants to
improve the Management Information System (MIS); in the EMU activities,
consultants established adequate systems and methodologies. Working
relationships were generally good.
16. Project Documentation and Data
16.1      The legal documents were well prepared.  The Staff Appraisal Report
provided a valuable framework both for the implementing agencies and IDA
supervision staff to follow-up Project implementation. Data relevant to the
PCR were readily available, except for details on local project costs, IDA
staff maintained relevant records of all Project related activities.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1357-BD)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL)
Energy Monitoring Unit (EMU)
University of Engineering and Technology
Bangladesh Oil and Mineral Corporation (BOGMC)



-14-
ENKRGY WFFICIEVCY AND REFIU1MRY REHA3IL:TATION PROJECT
IDA  CREDIT  NO. 1$5?-BD-
PROJECT COMPEITION  REPORT (PCR) -    PART  - II
PROJECT  COMPONENTS   s
-   Rehabilitation of ERL and staff Training
-   Szudy of Debottlenecking and Conversion
capacity of ERL
An analysis of key issues relaLed to this Eroject components
On "he basis of World Bank Staff Appraisal Report No.4295-BD on 'Energy
Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project' dated April 21, 1983, a Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed on 16th May, 1983 between IDA and GOB and Project
Agreement was signed on the same date between IDA and ERL for implementation of the
project under IDA Credit No.1357-BD.  The Credit became effective from 23rd March,
1984. Original closing date of the Credit was 31st December, 1986.
As per Section 3.01 (C) of Article-III of DCA, GOB agreed to re-lend to ErL
US$ 21.4 Million for Part-A of the project described in Schedule-II of the DCA which
has been shown below and a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOB and ERL was signed
on 2.1.1984 for the execution of the project.
"Part A : Refinery Rehabilitation
I.     Rehabilitation of the facilities of ERL to restore their mechanical integrity
aad increase capacity utilization through :
1.    Provision of replacement equipment, materials for ropairs3 and
engineering services.
2.    Training of ERL Staff.
3.    Identification and techno-economic analysis of the options for process
modification to provide ERL Secondary Conversion and any additional
refining capacity that may be requirod to remove the imbalance between
ERL production and the demand .for petrolewu fuels in the Borrower'=
territory.
4.    Detailed preparation of the option selected for implementation under
Part A.3 above."
Under Art.A.1 of the above i.e. Refinery Rehabilitation Component, jobs were
taken up as per Annexure 5-1 of the Appraisal Report for equipment, materials and
services. The Project Proforma for Refinery Rehabilitation Project was approved by
Executive Committee of National Economic Council on 6.3.1984.



-15-
Aefinery Rehabilitation Project wae split into four components.
(a)   Repair, tMaintenance and Replacement
(b)   OlperatinL and 1*WinltCftanlo t ;onamercnt 'l'ulii :Lf at.A e;Vu;
(c)   Training
(')   Tochno-economije study oit Ocb'tt1envcki.i'i: .iiic Uc)l ,a&i  ;oaivcraion.
(a)   ktijair, -irtintenance nlnd i'>l)LIcon0.11L:    -
Under this component procurement of process cw,tLpmont, s,ares, electrical
a6u.i insitrument accozsories, repair of four olcl Crude Oil oitorage Tanlzo,
Corstruction of Now Product Tai-s', procure-leiit of Laboratory Equipnmunt ald
construction/comrmisuioninf a 3M1W Power SLaiaiu were coiiiplot(ld in tlirce phasou.
All the items under this component were completed smoothly except for the
following :
1.    Construction of  3MVJ Powier Station
Construction an Oil Jetty witli Lor!li :
3.   Construction of a Coolinw Towor
1A.    Procitrement of one C1U Ent;inc and Flow M1 I4vr; 1,o  custody Iranisfor of
products.
For construction of 3liW 'teamii Turb4IIe iower :.; :iLioji a delaty of about 14 montho
occured because of difference of opinion betwooen G03 zaId IDA on the selection
of Contractor.  However, the rrojict wa:.; suc;,;e'Ully comPleted and it was
Commissioned during June, 19Z.;.
UerardLyoconzttrucbioA Or on Oil Jetty witht Lun;diI5 Aits it iu to be .ioted
thtzat originally in the Project Proforma only Loading Arms Wic-C included.  Since
without a rermanent jetty in3tallation of loadin- arms was not possible, a
rovised propocal was subsequently subniittod by MtL to include the construction
of a permanent jetty with loading arms for faste-r and safer discharge of crude
oil.   Although  IDA  agreed in principle aLd accepted tho proposal, the Project
Proforma (PP) was required to be revised and ajproved by SC of NEC. On the
other hand, because of devaluation of Tala atLainst Dollar and higher equipment
prices in the international marlket, there was a considerable cost over-run which
also necessiated revision of the PP. The revi .ed PP was approved on 3rd January,
1989.



-16-
For above reasons the Credit had to be extended three times, the final closing
date  being 31st December, 1989.  Since itomo liIew
-     Constr'uction of Oil Jetty with Loading Arms
-     C F R   Engine
-     Construction of a Cooling Tower      and
-     Installation  of Flow Meters
could not be completed even by the extended validity of the Credit, IDA agreed,
at the request of GOB, to finance these components out of the other on-going
Credit No.1749-BD earmarked for Secondary Conver&ion Plant at EEL.
(b)   Operating and Maintenance Management Technical Assistance   -
For providing expatriate services, offers were invited from short-listed firms
on 15.1.1984. Through competitive bidding, witht consent from IDA and approval
of GOB a Contract was executed with M/s. Bechtel of UK on 10th November, 1984.
Bechtel expatriates completed their assignment and left in due course.
(c)   T r a i n i n g      -
For the appointment of a Training Manager a contract was signed between BPC
and  IPEDEX of France on 21st March, 1984.  Under this contract a Training
14anager joined ERL on 24th June, 1984 and completed the assignment as per terms
of the contract.  A Training Centre has been con:tructed and Trainers for
internal training of ERL Staff were developed. A regular training systemn has
since then beer introduced and continuing satisfactorily. In total thirteen
Engineers, one Finance Man from ERL and one Executive from BPC received over-
seas trainin6 under this component.
(d)  Tluhno-oconomic Study on Dobottlonnoknd.ng nn(l ,coondnry Convorsion of ERL   -
For conducting Techno-economic Study on Dobottlotiecking atld !econdary Conversion
of EEL, a contract waL executod with M/s. Lumnmuti- Crest lnc. of USA on 29.12.83.
The study was completed in two phases. Phase-I Study started from 2nd week of
February, 1984 and the reports were submitted by Lwuimus on 16th April, 1984
under the following headings :



*t                                         -17-
(i)    Domand/8upply of Potroleum Products
(ii)   Marketing and Distribution of Potrolewun Producta
(iii)  kxiuting Refinory
(iv)   Least cost analysis.
Lummus submitted their Phase-I final report on 27th July, 1984.
Phase-II of Techno-economic Study by Lunmmus consisted of tho following s
1.     Development of project details
2.     Project implementation and arrangement schedule
3.     Capital and operating cost estimate
4.     Financing
5.     Final and economic analysis.
Lummus completed their job through an extension of the contract as Phase-III
of the study which included the Basic Engineerinz of the ERL up-grading
facilities.
From the above analysis of thQ activities done undcer 1 cfincry itehabilitation
Project against IDA Credit No.1357-BD our observationa arc as follows  :
C1)    Although the DCA was signed on 16th May, 1983 the Credit became effective
after the fulfilment of all covenants of DCA from 23rd March, 1984.  This
would mean that there was an initial delay of about 10 nionths at the outset
of credit utilisation.
(2)    Although the borrower follows IDA Procurement guidelines for all international
procurements, as benoficieries  of the credit, we feel that the borrower should
have some more flexibility in implementing projects and should be allowed to
take independent decisions as and when required with intimation to IDA. For
lack of flexibility in taking decisions sometimes there are differences in
opinion between the borrower and the banc that causes delay in implementation
uf tho project.



-18-
(3)     Although  Us$ 21.4 Million was allocated for EXL Rehabilitation Project,
only .12.034 Million could be utilised till the final closing date of
the Credit.   With the implementation of the remaining components a total
of about 17.00 Million US Dollar would be spent. An amount of 7.00 Million
Dollar was left unused and would be returned to IDA.
KAMALUDDIN AHMD )
PROJECT IMPLMSENTATION CO-ORDINATOR
0~~~~~~~~~.
4



-19-
F:>F:; OJ ER:C-   :lV11   F L.E:  1_ I4JN   ~F;t D:F QxT
714E=F4tC3V  M1        I C3 C)F1  I 1C143  LJIlI T-
MINISTRY OF ENERGY & MINERAL RESOURCES
GOVT. OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
:=3_===O=                            ===___=====_====_===_===== ===



-20-
IME1) Form 'No. 04
PROlJEC'T r  OMPLE.TE rION REPOelRT
PAI r -A
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
. Name & Location of the Project          :ENERGY MUNITURINt8 LNIN DHFXAKA.
 Name of  (a) Sector/Sub-sector          :Oil, Gas & Natural Resources.
(b) Administrative Ministry :M/o Energy and Mineral Resources
(c. Sponsoring Aqency         aM/o Energy and Mineral Resources.
(d) Executive Agency          aEnergy Monitoring Unit.
(e) Agency responsible for  aEnergy Monitoring Llnit.
Operation and Maint.
S Serial number & page number of the   :Serial No. 24
Project in the last ADP                  Page No. 122.
. Date of Appr-oval
Original                : 06. 03.1984
(Copy of orgl.PP is attached)
Revised                 : 11 02. 19988
(Copy of rev.PP is attached)
5. Date of commencement
(a) As per project document
Original                 tOctober,1983
Revised                 :July,1984
(b) Actual                   aJuly.1984
6. Date of Conipletion
(a) As per project document
Original                 :June,1986
Revised                  June, 1988
(b) Actual                    June, 1988
Page 1



PA'R'f - E.
FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS
7. Estimated  C6ost of  the  I:.."roject,.:
I otal         I Local  Currenc-y           :      Foreign   IEx>chanqe                            I
I   (Rev i sed         I
I    Estimate)         I                                  P.A           I       Others
t   1          l         2            l            .; ,2  3                 4:
l       _-_       _ _       I __         I-  _*- - * - -- - - - -   _-_ -  _ -  _   _ -I-_ * -_ _ __* _ _      _ _* *   
I k  474. 72  L.AKH  T k  85. i:  L.AIAH  I 1-  ::88 . 99  LAKH 
I                      a                                                a                 
Conversion   kates  :  19FJ,t-85              J 1 US  -V  = Tk.  25.50
1905--86       1 US  $  =  HTk. 27.50
1986-87  :        U US  $  =  Tk . 30. 50!
1987--88  :  1 IJS  *  =   HTk. 31.00
6   Foreign  -- Financing
:hame  of  SourceiNature  of  Aid  lAmount  in  F.E    IDate  of  effectiveness:
i - -- - - - - - - - - -   i - - - - - - -- - --
a.        1            :          2            I           .-                              4               :
t ~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ____ ____ _______ ._________._ _ _____.___ _ _ I  _ _     _     
I      IDA             ICredit  No.            ITK.3:8.99  Lakth  :                  23--3-84              :
:(World  Bank)    t 13557-EII) Energy                                    I
I E: f i .                                                                          aomponent
Clrgi  Tk. 379. 76  Lakh            Orgl. 23.03.84
(@T k.25.00  per  US  $)
Rev.lk.388.99  Lakh                 Rev.  23.03.84
(variable  excharige  rate
as  indicated  above)
Page  2



  .                                        ~~~~~~~~~-22-
( ,a) o.ppcirti onnient of l"oreirn tAi d AMOUnt for- FineAnci,nq F. E. and
Local Lurr-cncy
I F inarice  As  per- ac.iieeme,i                     (mont       actuAl. Iy  utiliised 
ILoczAl  Curr-ency   1F.fE. (irn  forc?i.n I                 Local          1         .E.
IS  ur-ce       11 (irn  foreign           I(2ut-rency)
I       I          cm -rc)I 
I                  ~~~~~~RPA1-                                         (RPA~)         I
I  IDA  F.kI.57                                                      .... L . -h RP   2-..63. Mi.-I-i.r  7     669    $.4Milo '
(World         !as  par t  of  F.E' I            . 52  MilIi ort               1            (excluding
flank)                         !~~~in  the  original I                           IRPA)
I     I                        ~~~~~IPP  and-chanqed 
I     I                                                                                                   I~~~1t     13
*    I                          *4... .*. ~'Milio     i   t I e                                           a
*     I     ~      ~     ~    ~        .~!reise     F'



-23-
I                                                                     I    
lSource               Schedule  of  drawal                            I       Actual  Drawal                  t
*              I   _                                _  _   _                           *_       - -       __*__           
tlUates        lAmount in             IE)tchanqe    I    Date           t      Amount          t
tforeign               'rate            I                tactually
t              O              tIcurrency  L!S$    I                   I                Idrawn  US$             I
I      1       |      2       t          ;            I      4         S      15       1          6
I              t              i   t      -        -- I                   --------- I --S---
t 1Dz          I              tIt                                      102.12.84    1   $115,000.00  I
! (World       I                                      I                |
:I.n k)        I              :                       t                I                I
I -do-         t                                                       111.06.85    t    $50,000.00  t
I--do-         t                                                       116.06.86    t   $125,9-72.00  t
I----    ---- *--      ---*   I  - ----- --  - -- ------- --I-- -  -  -  -I--   -  -  --  -   -I
:-do-          11984-85    1   $291000.00C)  t                         tSub  7otal:u          $290,9?72.C)0  1
---.-                I                      S-- -- - - - - - -   - - - - - -   I - - - - -i- - - - - - -
t -do-                                                                 I tt/. 12.85   It       4:3,203.00  1
I--do-         t              t                       t                 13.C1.86    1   $111,249.84  t
I -d o-        1                                      1                1 i  h06.04.86    1    $17,925.00  I
1-do-          t              t                                        120.04.86    1    $26,218.00  1
1-do-          I              t                       t28.04.86    1   $133,308.48  t
I--do-         :                                                       106.05.86    1             $908.00  I
I-e-do-        t              :                       :: 119.v5.6 I                            $1,352.91  t
1-do-          :              :                       t                122.05.86    1    *12,160.96  I
I=t_     _ ____-       -  -  -     -    -  -   -   --                         -.-  - -  -  .-_ : - - t
I-do-          1t1985-86    1   $336,672.00  :                         ISub  1otal:1   $306,326.19  t
I           I               -----.- -~~~~~~~~ ---  ---  - 
Continued gO.....



-24-
------------------------------------------------------------------------
I             I                                                     I                                      I
ISburce       I      Schedule  of drawal                            I      A ctual Drawal                  I
I.t           t---- -                                               I-- -----                              I
I             IDates         !Amount  in           IExchange    I    Date           I      Amount          I
I             Iforeign               Irate                           f lactually            I
I             I              :lcurrency  Us$    I                                   Idrawn  US$            I
I      I      1       2                3            1      4        1      5        1         6            t
1-do-          I             I                                      101.11.86    1    $73,681.50  1
t - do -      It*                                                   106.11.86    1    *20,983.326  1
1-do-         :1             I                                      1118.11.86    1    $28,767.19  1
1-do-         I              I                      1103.12.86   '                         $1,321.00  1
1-do-          I             I                      I               103.12.86.  1          $34757.00  1
1-do-          I             1                                      127.01.87    1    $45,964.68  1
I-do-          I             I                      I               112.03.87    1         $8,746.64  I
1-do-          I                                                    1 112.03.87    1    $36,075.66  1
-do-          I                         1                           112.03.87    1    $66,407.57  I
1-do-          I                                    I               112.03.87    1    $16,622.23  I
1-do-         t       I     1t                                        15.03.87    1    $11,619.75  :
I-do           I             I                      I               115.03.87    1    $18,660.40  1
I-do-         tI                                    1               113.04.87   :1.           $611.82  I
:-do-         I              I                                      113.04.87   1    $15,593.72  t
I             :              I                                      126.04.87   1    $55,666.98  1
:-                        -- ::             I-                               I-     -    -   -     I
i-do-             1986-87  1  $404,470.00  I                        ISub  Total:!   $404,479.40  1
1-do-          I             I                      1               105.07.87   1    $74,958.88  I
;-do-          I             I                      1               1:28.09.87   :1    $52,756.22  1
1:-do 1-:                    I                                      113.08.87    :         $6,076.00  1
I-do-          1             1t                                     :27.08.87   :    $31.000.0CI  1
:-do-          I             :                                      130.09.87    1         $1,200.00  I
I-do-          I             1                      1                30.09.87    1         $7,708.24  :
1-do-          I             I       _              :Committed  1    $61.912.00  :
:      :              :~~~-- --   - --   -  I-    -  -  -  -  I-  -  -  -  -  I- -  --   -  --  -
1-do-          1 1987-88  1  $322,580.00  t                         ISub  Total:1   $235,611.34  :
I- -  --  --   I-  -  --  -  I  -    --- ------        - - ---_- _-- I--  ----    -- I  ----   ----   --- 
I-do -                       I                      I               I    RPA        I    $28,401.61   :
I-do           ITotal      I:$1,354,922.00  1                       I               1$1,265,790.54  I
------------------------------------------------------------__---------
q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-25-
S. (c) Expenditure on Foreign Consultants, including
Feasibility Studies,
(i) MAs per Agreement 5
-- -- -- - __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ __ __.___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___
!Nature of    IName of Contractor       I          I
Iwork         I& nature of contract   !PFriod of I-----------------------
I (Trnn-Key &            Icontract  I Taka   I    F.E.
I             !otherwise)                                          US$
I             I                         *          I
1      1             2          1    3      I   4     t
IEnergy       lArther D.Little Inc.   I            t         I
IMonitoring   !USA in association       124 Months I  --   1$1,146,225.00
I    &        Iwith Bechtel Group Inc.l            It
!Conservation I& Rahman Rahman Haq&Co I            I
I             l(ConsuLtancy services) I
Original  :   --      US $ l4-j-22
Revised



-26-
8.c (ii) Actual Expenditure on Foreign Consultants:
tNature of                 I    Amount paid                                             I
Iwork                      I                               ---    Date of paymentlRate of  I
I                          I      Taka       I       F.E.         I                     IExchanget
t    I(at  constantI          US $         t                  -  Iper-   T
I    rate)       I                    t                                  IUS*
t   1             t       2         t        3           t ~~24                t         S 
tConsultancy Service!                        I  *llS ,000:.00  IC02.12.e41:
IAdvance0                                                    tI 
IConsultancy Service!t  $125,972.o1CO  tO6.06.85
I__________________         t_____           I                    :-                     --
i                   I~~~~~~Sub Total  I  *24C'.972.00:    I       t984-85        1TK 25.501
-- -- - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -  -  - --   - - --- I      ----  - -  --  -     --  -  -
IConsuan-do-               I                 t  $111.249.84  1130.1.86                              I
-do- S                             I   $17,925.(.)O  106.04.86               I
t   -do-        t1                t  $133,308.48  t28.0I4.86                 I            I
I'Sub Total      t  $262,487.32  1           1985-86        tTK 27.501
t         -do-             I                 I    *-o-7Z 681.51:   11.11.86                         t
-do-             :                :    *$217983.26  106.11.86                             I
-do-             1                 :       3, * 757.08.  1283.12.86          t            I
tReimbursible Cost   t                              28,767.19  tlB.11.86               It           I
t         -do-             t* :                                                                     a1*I2..:)O  IC3.12.86  t
tu-do-                 T           t    $42,964.63   1        127.01.87       t    7
:      ~~-do-            t                        8,746.64  :12.03.87tt
I         -do-                               I      36,075.66  I12.03.8I7
: -do-                      t             *66,407.57 tl2.e. ar.7                          I
:         -do-                               t    *$16,622.23  112.03.87                            I t
Monsultancy Service!                         I    $18,660.40  115.03.86 7                           t
IReimbursible Cost   t                       I    $11,619.15   15.03.87                             I t
:         -do-             t                 t        *h11.82 0 13.14.87                t            1
:Consultancy Servicea                             $15a ,5 .72  113.04.87                            I a
tReimbursible Cost    t                      t    'g55$ 666.98  126.0.4.87              I            I
I-  - -  -  --  -  -  - -  :-    -  - -  -  -  - - - -  --  -  - _____--        --  -- ________- __ _ _ __ _ _ _
t                          ISub l1otal       t  $40q4479.40  1 1          986-87        t'T'K .Q..50
IConsultancy Servicel                        :    $74,958.88  115.073,7                 I
lReimbursible Cost   I                            $52,756.22  128.09.87                 I            I
I         -do-             I                 I    *27. 900.00  tClaimed                 I           I
:C       tancy    r       ISub Total         t   $151,61S.7 1C  t        1987-88        :T    31.00t
--  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  I-  -  - -  -  -  :-   -  -  -  - -  -  - --------------__    - -------
:                          Irotal            :*1$1,59.549.82                            1 I        0
------------------------------------------------------------------------



-27-
9. Anrtiua  Ex,penditure S3chedule as per project Doc:ument
(I1N  LAk;H    IAKIA;f)
Financial Year    I   Uriuiral                                  IRevised(1st)                  Revised(2nd)
lotal   I  F.E.             I lotal   I  F.E.               'Total   I  F.E.
                                     .     _      .                                                                  * .... _ -t-   I  I   l  I 
I                    :      2       I      :3      1      4               5 S     1      6               1  I
_~~~~~-._._._ ....... **._****~                                      .             ._ .........    _____..............    ....................  ..._I_..........  ......_ ._ ____._._I.___ 
1983-04                    :265.47  1196.26  1  1.75  1  ---
a  a  ~~~~~~~             a               a ~~~~~~I------I
LCumulIative               1265.47"   .196.26  :  1.75  :                               I
II1 E134 -.-35            : 1 6S . 36    :1  (,1 ^' . 5;0    1  89-. ;:52    I  74.2      I                           :
-------- --- *-------I------ a                                             ----
t:ML at i- Ve              11435.3'.6 116.7b              I  91.072   1  74.20   1 I
*           1Ltmui Y -      8           14        . 98 .  11  .:;16. 7 I 1 '1 - /8   :  /. 64 164
*    .        Iati v             a 2 .9            11Sa -1    119Y8              116 .4 1                     I              It
: ---------------------------                                                                    -  -----
:             :               :              t              :              ~       ~      ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  :  :
-1  -86-1,7               1              :              : 144.87    9122.615  
IYU)-88                                     ISO. VO         WC). (o           I                         1I I~  a 
a           cumlIat i ve                :              I                (44.  S2 i88. 99   1                       I
*              ~                         ..4....,,,r   I%, ...   I,..4J   *|JJO                     I - |
Uriqinal estimate based an Counstant    rk.25 p=JFer 1 lJ  *.I
Rsevised estimate based on coversion rates of l'k 25.50,:'1Tk 27.5t,
'tk 30t.50),Tk Vi1.00:: per I US $for the    FY 84-85, 85-B6, 136-837, 87-B8,
respecti vel y.
: :                                                                                                                   



-28-
t1. Act.tAl  E.xpenditur:
LAtf::H  lAf:-,t
I Fl-::anned   rar-cet  ae; per-   I'fctUal (amount  &8  %  of                 I
I                                 IAUP  (amottnt *Rc %  o+f               Itotal  cost  ADP
Financial  Year             !t.otR;l  projiect   cost               laIlclcation                           I
O I                                      "     "             I     -           .    1                              z_      I
I  rTotal       P  A. A    Othter s                    rTotal  I P.A.    I Others
l   1   |  2  |  :S  1    4      C     5      1     6      1      7
I   *  -                _._  -..-.* _*   __*   _|*                                                         --. --  I *-.-_.._ -.- ___ -  _  |  _ __ _ __  _I
198:3-84               i  15. 00  -i       -                       1 .75
(Advance  Year)             1 (2.03%)!                               (          1 
I __ _ _  ____________                                                   * I __  . t__              I **___ ____-_____*- I
Curnu I at i ve           15.t    0        -                         1.75   1
1984-85                1 BQ0. C) 1 50. Q           Q             88.64   1 81.13  1
J(15. 1%)  (9.45%)                     I (110.8%H1 (i62.3./I1
X | , - g * t _ *-- _ _ _ _ * I _______I
C:numulative             1 95.00   1 50.00   1                     9 90.3:e9   1 81. 13  1
1?85--86               1195.00  1155.00   1                    1100.38  I 84.57   1
I(36.9%) 1(29.3%) I                    1(51.5%) 1(54.6%) 1
- ---------------------           --------- -------I                      - -I----  -       .     -    - _ _ _ t   *___________
i                              I  I                      I          _  -_         I_   _ _ _ . I _  _.____ I__
I          lCumulative            129Q.QQ  1 205.00   I                   1190.77  11165.60  1t
~I                              I                   I:t>  z>1Az.{%       cs    . I  I     1.1  I         I
1986-87                "1 1Q.Q)0   1110.00  11                 1144.17  :1122.15             '
IUm lttive               I 45(0. OCi1 5f 121.  0                 13(7.4.)94  11287.175  I         
1       1 C1987-88             t  s.   :):      :,:   :)|t1 2 1.0 1:3:     9 1. . t)t:  1
:                        l ~~~~~(2!4.6%)Il(18.9%)'               i :(93.z1/.):|(91%)           i  
Cumulative               14580.00  1415.00   '                   1455.94   ,87.3.75  1
Not e Wriginal Project cost: :TIk .52-8.94 Lakh inciludingJ F.E of
Tk. ::i;79. 76 Lakh.
e  I'k.245   =  I US  $
Actual E::xpenditureP based aFn ex:change? rates in
.. F Y  84-85,  1 US  $: =  TK25 . 50
FY 85-66 1      1 1U0    1    r          9271..50)
FY  86-8%7 ,  1 US  *  =  Th'(93      . 2(1)
FY  87-88.  1 US  *  = $T'Kc30.97



-29-
11. Investment cost
( L.fAt':H   IAKA
Items                I        Final  E,t.imate                  I              Xct LA,l                    t
f~~~~~~~ ~~ - _   _  .-_   _ ."...-.-... .-_ .      _.---.....-_  . S._...--.--._   _ .. . .....................-..--- I  ... _.-.--__ -_ . -_ .. _ . ................    
I :   otal:   Local   I F.E. .  I  Iotal   I  Loc:al    I F.E.
.t                      I                      a   .         a   . -. l_. _ _. _  _.  |____   
r   1             I     :2                     a 4; 2  31 4                a      6       1     7
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -..- ...... .-    .__.                                ..    ......I.*i_g.  ._                   
O i.Pre-constr'uctionl                          I                            1             1
I Ex:pend i ture.                 I             I                            I             I              I             I
I                                 I             I             I              I             I              I      
O .1.    Construction                                         I                                           I
a_____ ...                               .     .       .      ...                                 .      .       .     ....... ______.  a  a . ... . . . ..... a  a  a  a  
I         Works                   I             I             I              *             I                            I
:                                 I_ _   I                    I              I                            a             I 
:(i)  Functiorial                               I                            I                            I
I       BEui ldings                                                                                        I            I
(ii)   Residentiai                :             I             :
1   {3ui ldinqs        I                                                  I I   I   I          t              I
:(iii)  Otther  cons-   :                       :              I                                                        I
:l:ruction  Works                               a I  :        I                                                         a
a_.___..___ _______                 _____._.__._...a.                                      a___, ___  ___ 
ISutb-Totdl  of  II I
1111.  Machinary   &    1 65.54   1. 20.46   1  45.08   1  55.79   1  20.46   I  35.33 a.
Ia                                                                            (C--------- I  II(Commi-l (Commi--l (Commi- I
IEquip.including                  I t          I                      I       ted)         Ited)          Ited)         I
I- --    ---    ---   ------      :. I                                                     I                            fI,
Ispares  &  transportl                          I 1                                        a              a 1
a- -  --  - -   - - -  - -  - -
Ivehicle  etc.                    I             a              a             a             :                            I
I (furnish   item  wisel                        1                     1             1
Idetails  in                      II
IAppendix-A)                      1I                                         I             I       
I-                -a -------                                                a ____   I------- _ _        1, -------



*                                     ~~~~~~~~~~-30-
U .4-:.H "I(*4:()
I tu, ns-  P   i a  EsA inu- ei                       ActLIa                 I
I TIo t i.4I    Local  I, .E..         Iot.cal  I L.ocal  IFE
!IV.   Oither  Costs  :1I
I II s-1. a 1 J. at i all ~~~~~~~II                          i                       iI
expens~esI                                    I
ifany  of  sponsor-11I a                                      t1
lina  agency               11i                       1           I           I           It           I
(0i i ) Overhead  cst l:351. 5SQ      4 7. YC  1:303. 60.  1346..93            44.19  1t:3.0 2 .4/
lof  the  pro.ject                        1i                       (comnti-I,            I
I(inclu-dinq  local  &11I                                       I'ted)        
!Iforeign manpower) 
(i v)  AllIowAnce  fuor   S. 23  1   3. ZS  1   5. 00  1   --               I               -
Wnforseen  cost             1.It1                                1           ItI
(vi)  Miscellaneousl  46. 45  1 14.14  l 35.31  1 .53.2"2  1 12. 54A                       40).66
*                    a     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~~~ a  ati d)  I          a
ISub-l'otal  of  IV          1409.18  I 65.27  1343.91  1400.15  1 56.73  1343.42  1
rrotals  of  I'to: IV  1474.72  .I 65.73  11388.99  1,455.94  1 Yi/.19  I 37 8. /'t  i
- - - -  -  -  -   -  -  -  - - -  -  -  -  - -  - -  - - - -  -  - - -  -  -  -   -  - - -  -  -



IIscale of Pay     Base rate.'  ANNAL SAflRY,4AflESfinc;uding alleuances)   -TOTAL SALARY  lnabur   Mcale of Pay         IDase rate.'  ANNAL SALARY ,UA6E(ivrluding allcuanes   ITOTAL SALR*
:M.               :per Ilaithl         during pericd of esplayment           :VASES         I         ITK.               1per Nfootbl        during period -f tnployaet1           IIA5SB
I             M~~17.    1(akahhTK)-                                      1akh TK.       I      .I                   Ml.      1                     Luichi TKLaIMMTX.
*    1983-94  1194-85 I1905-86   1996-97   1997-98 1                                            1          1983-04 :1984-85   1993-96 i 1996-7  11997-85
1.5700-Fized      : 57001                                                                        I   :15700-Fixed            5700:  --   11 0.1457:1 1.11301  1.2140   2.72
*4 0S    IM49                                                                                    I    MS-150            I    .5                 -    I 0. S3 S.B            1.Dl 20
1475-5-50         1     90                                                                       1   14750-150-5500     1 50501 1-0.1338  0.97961  1.00312.91902
.'4200-130-5250   IS    4 S0     S                                                          6S- 0-                      4650          IS         1         S.6 4012 5 I         1275
13700-12IT-90     3700           I                                       I                              I                700           I   -    IS 
I                                          0.0.1     5.0       7    56       5              5       .55 I   03                                                    6 S  S    9..1  1S 7L
14750-150-5003         49500                              i                                      1    14750-150-5020         195500            01281   0.3603   0.97652011.0591.9192
:1620-50-0250     1    50                                                                        I           :4200-100-520   19450             00251 03.165   CM.04         0.41017    I. 1.245
:130-100-3025          I 70                                                  :              :-     :375000-12 0425       . 1901.3700:-59-I-0 I1                     .54      .10 119
*          .         *  -     ,~~~~~~~ ~~ 0.071I   3.003    7.7  9.651   20.39       1                                                 0 1  1    1 3.24214 6.9MMI 2.43417:0.7063



r,pe :f Sapicya.  :Miater   :%ale cf Pay        'k.Os rate:   IIOIUL 9UIT,MA15E l0ft1ii~ aluarmcsl  - ITOTAL SALARY  :I1uc.   2Sca!q ; Fl             3 ase rate.,   AM~A  60Lay *SISiHVi=alcaou                 :0Tx  ~AM
*    Tk.                lp2r Ilcotli?        f.rO  ;no     e2pl,jent                 y.ES                     t.                ;r2~h               dari2; pri:d of eo-1CyI!8
M.                                Makh TK.      J&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11                                    (Labh T..!:iuT
.3l9S-H31934-95 09S-91. 6g-9I 1987-99:                                                                  1    983-e4   1994-95:I is-e&   193-097   1937-59:
F.A.to Director   :    :    31000-70-1!60-E3-  3 1140               I                                                          I   z    300-70-l56O-f3-  1 1210    -       I         :         :0.7f a' 0."           . -7
stungraphw             4    1950-55-140--            10500                    3                                                2    M85-55-1400-f-          1180:             0.3.602    M 0.  I5 0.W51   0. 52322.03!2
Accuotant              I 1     -do-                 101:           3:                                                                  -do-            : 1070:               0  .11h5   0.2070~ 0.2M99   0.40911  0. ?42 5
Office As.tt.          I    I  -do-             L 10703                                                                        I               -do-         MOse    -       0.2236:0.222.6  0.0423  0.2035   0.6
Asstt.LbrrSfiI        t    3-do-               : 10703                                                                        1      -do-             1 1125:-              0.1114:I0.211530.2'93:  0.2137 :0.904
Stun-typist       3 3    3B0050130-0-ED             1000 1         3                                        .-3 2   3900WW1300E-   I 1100 1-                               :0.2146 10.3711 1   aTS    0.49803 11.4635
Typist-cus Clek  3 2    170M0-1110-B-55              "O90                               I                                      2   1704-10l 1               940            I  0.1907 10.3243 30a363        MMaLZ  1  I.MZ2
:115.00           3                                                                                     1415.00                    I         33                  Ia
Driver            :63-00                             "01                                                                   34   -00-3   730-3                                         0,3291:0.Sm 6:.5803:.322
Onpatch RtiduIrl       7    60-090E-            1- 6903             :         I                                                5    100-29Q-B0--          12 70              IM  a32    0.73W7    0.7400 1 0.80  1 2.6506
Hh!per            3 4    1500-20-160.          3    5603                                                                       4    :0500-2-80              so80    -      10.0m  3.45010.43371   0.21101  1.5590
Scad              3 4    1-do-                       so0           :         :         :                                       4   3-do-               3    501 -            0.21333  0.49691  0.4967:  lalli  1.8695
Iseijier     3~1.2      -d-3                     5013                    1         1         13-do-                       2       o                     5803-          1G.!09  0.25330.1p90&          i12c71 :C392 m 
Sub-Total         3  36    13                                -     1   1.95 1   4.293    5.0031   6.503   17.74           I  29                                              1 394-1 4llIl   UPS45   4.34591  5.2241 !15.7159
TOTAL             357    3                                   -     1 2063:  11.943I  21.343'  24.003   59.34              145    1 i                                         2.3016 110.92M21L9W911L0005  4L 1411
- - Note i  oSe of th, of ficers I staff reKruited derlg thf projeKt iapleutation have resigned
since thu. meyer the refilling of these vacateq/positions is in the process and is
apKcted to hip filled up smo. 



-33-
PART-D
PHYSICAL ANALYSIS
_________________
13. Component-wise physical target and achievement' a
_________________________________     ___  __ __ __  __ __ ___  __ __  __ __ __  __
Work Components            lUriit     ITarget                 lActual
(As per PIB 034.76)        1          I(Uuantity as per      t(in quantity)
I          llatest revised PP)   I
l.Consultancy(Foreign) ..J.Man monthl           62.5          1 _     61.95
to   (Local)      IMan monthl         40.75          i         40
(Details given in App-A)I             I                      I
I          I                      I
2.Industrial Energy        INos       1          40           1          60
Audits                   I          '
I          I
3.Energy Audit Equipt.  ILot          I       One Lot         I      One Lot
(Details given in App-B)l1I                                  t
I~~~ 
4.Transport                INos       I          4            1          3
I          I                ,   
5.0ffice Equipment         ILot       I       One Lot         I      One Lot
(Details given in App-B)I             I                      I
I          I                      I
6.0urnitures               ILot       I       One Lot         I      One Lot
(Details given in App-B)I             I
17.Books/Journals           ILot       :      One Lot          I      One Lot
II                                I
IB.Recruitment of           I          t                       I
Personnel                I          I                       I
(a)Officers             INos        1         21           1          20
(b)Staff                INos       I          36           1          32
I          II
19.Training of EMU          I          I                       I
Personnel                I          I                       I
(a)Local(on the job)   I--          IDuring Project        I      Completed
I      ~I                       I,
(b)Foreign (9 nos.      IMW        I          52           1  48 (completed) +
Officers)            I           I                      1   4 (scheduled)
(Details given in App-C)I   .         I                      I
------------------------------------------------------------------------__-



-34-
General Observations
13.01       The Energy Monitoring Unit(EMU) was estsblished within the
Ministry of *Energy & Mineral Resources vide notif-icationa.-- -
P&MR-III/7(18)82/418 dated January 25, 1983. The principal aim of
the unit is to monitor programs for industrial energy savings
through energy audits, introduction of energy efficiency
technology and to function as a focal point of information and
research within the Government relating to energy programs and
projects.
13.02       The original Project Proforma (PP) for EMU was approved by
ECNEC on 6-03-19e4 with the broad objective, nature and purpose
of (i) improving energy use efficiency by reducing energy
consumption per unit of output, thereby reinforcing the overall
industrial sector objectives of higher efficiency and increased
competitiveness, and (ii) strengthening the institutional set-up
for the development and implementation of the country's energy
rational.ization program. To achieve these objectives, the GOD
engaged foreign constiltants (Arthur D. Little Inc., USA in
association with Bechtel Group Inc., USA-and Rahman, Rahman &
Haque Co., Bangladesh). The consultancy agreement was signed on
November 9, 1984. The concept of Energy Conservation and its
application is very new in Bangladesh and even in the
industrialized countries. A provision of 103.25 manmonths of
consultancy services were estimated for achieving the PP
objectives. The EMU personrnel, drawn up from related fields and
while receiving on-the-job training, supplemented the efforts of
the consultants.
13.03       As part of the consultants services, energy audits were
conducted on 47 industries and power plants. The energy audit
results indicate that the annual energy savings potentials of the,
economically viable options from audited plants correspond to a
net annual saving of 1 k. 20 crores. At the national level the
pure energy savings potential could be in the level o4 ik. 114
crores annually. As part of energy rationalization program, it is
also proposed to implement an inter-fuel substitution program to
replace imported petroleum products with domestically produced
natural gas in the industrial and power sectors.



-35-:'i 
13.04       Additionally as part of EMU's institutional strengtheningA'and
promotional work, 51 personnel ( 19 officers and 32 staff) .ere
recruited for EMU out of a s*anctioned total of 56 personneli:(20
officers and 36 staff). The officers have received on the jobs>
training under the supervisioqi of foreign consultants. The'OJT
has 'been supplemented by local trainings at BMDC, PATC and;'other:
institutions. Foreign training has also been completed by 8 ,
officers and the remaining one is scheduled for completion;,byj'l
June 1988.
13.05       The PP objeetive also envisaged establishment -of an-.n.gy-
related library and this has been achieved by acquiring ov%er`,700
technical books, engineering reports, literatures, Journals-and
educational equipment.Part of the books were purchased throigh.-
co6sultants  and balance received as free donations from a'gencie
like British Council, Asia Foundation, US AID etc.           *;' -
13.06       As part of its promotional activities EMU with the assistjance
of foreign consultants has prepared a national energy
conservation program and has also conducted promotional seminars
for Jute, Textile, and Tea industries. EMU officers have also
participated as guest lecturers at BMDC and Dhaka University'and
highlighted topics on energy conservation and its applications. r
JS.07       The overall PP objectives have been achieved. HoQever, wi,th
the completion of the study on energy-conservation and savings
potentials as covered in the scope of services under the existing
PP it has been proposed that the implementation phase should be
undertaken to capture the identified saving potentials. Having
developed some technical capability as a result of OJT, Foreign
and Local Trainings, EMU envisages to carry on the bulk of
implementations and further energy audits from its own manpower
resources. The consultancy manmonths for the proposed second
phase has accordingly been reduced to 36 manmonths which is only
23% of the annual consultancy manmonths as compared to the
previous consultancy services. Additionally, the 36 manmonths of
consultancy, in addition to providing services for EMU's
institutional strengthening and enhancement of its technical
capability will also render services to industries and plants in
the implementation of the indentified energy conservation
measures.



-36-
PART - E
BIENEFIT ANALYSIS
14.   (a)   Annual Output            : NOT APPLICABLE
tItem of Output.    lUnit             lEstimated QuantitylActual quantity of
lexpected at full   loutput during the    I
I1I                                   Icapacity                 list year of               I
I            I                        loperation at full
I            I                        lcapacity  (or during  I
I                        I            I                        Itrial production           I
I                        I            I                        Ifor newly completed  I
I    w                   I            I                        Iprojects)                  1
:-        -  -   - I  -      -  -  -I---   ---  ---   ---  --I-----------
I   1        1     2      1                        1            4              t
I--  -  --  -   --------    --- -----I--    - --  -  - --  -  -I--    -  -  - --  -  -  -
la.                      I            I                        I
I                        I            I                        I                           I
lb.                      I            I                        I
I                        .            I                        I                           I
Ic.                      I                                     1 '
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ib)  Cost Benifit   * :    NOT APPLICABLE
I          Item                       I     Estimated          I         Actual            I
I                                     I                        I 
----------------------------I------------------               - ------------------
1                         1           2            1            3
I                                     I                        !                           I
1(1) Benefit Cost ratio of    I                                I
I     project                                                  I                           I
I                                     I                        I                           I
I     (i) Financial                   I                                                    I
I     (ii)Economic                    I                        I                           I
I                                     I                        II
1(2)  Internal  Rate of Return  I                              I
(i) Financial                  I                         I                          I
I     (ii)Economic                                             I
(c) Please give reasons for short fall,  if any between the                              -
estimated and actual  benifit.
*Note 3 In filling up the proforma guidance may be had from the
instructions contained in the PP of Plannidg<Commission.
Page 17



-37-
14.    (c)  Non-Revenue  Earning Benefits  a  NOT APPLICABLE
I        Item                              I   Unit         I                     PER  YEAR                        I
I                                          I                lEsti'mated                I       Actual              I
------------------------ I---------_I------j--#-------  I---------------
I            I                            I       2        1            3             1             4
t-   -  -   -  -   -  -  -   -  -   -  -    - -   -  -  -   I- --------------            - --------------
la.                                                         I t                        I
lb.                                        I                t 
lc.                                 -      I                I                          t                           I
Id.                                        I                I                          I                           I
le.                                        I                I
If.                                        I                I                          I 
tg.':tI                                                                                                            t
14.           (d)  Annual Foreign Exchange Earnings : NOT APPLICABLE
Items            I         Estimated              I                 Actual                               I
_----- --------------------------
I                          IQuantitylFOB                    lQuantity                   IFOB                       I
I                          I               I                I                           II
Ifor           tValues    lExported                         tValues
lexport    I                    I                           I                          I
1             I     2        I       3        J             4             j            5             I
,=______t------ --------- I------- ,---------I---------------I--------
la.                        I               I                I                          t                           I
lb.                        I               t                I                           I
Ic.                        I               I                I            .             I                           I
Id.                        I               I                I                           I                          I
-N-



-38-
14.   (e) Anntnal Foreign Exchange Saving due to Out-put
I       Items        I   Estimated        I      Actual       I
---- --------I----            ----------
I                    IQuantity I CIF      IQuantity I CIF     I
I                    lof importI Value - tof importI Value   I
Ito be    I         I'saved    I         I
I  *  Isaved    I         .1         I         I
t   1           |~~~~~ 2       3    I 4    1             1 
1I1                                            5
ENERGY       119.05 PJ IUS $ 64  10.6 P3   ITk 1.8   1
I(Natural gas        !(after   IMillion  l(after   Ierores   I
!furnace oil ,diesel Iimplemen-I(@ of US limplemen-I(based onI
tetc)                Itation   115 per   Itation   IJuly 86  I
lof EEIO sIBarrel oflof some  lenergy   I
irequiringloil)     Irecommen-Iprices)  I
I                    Ian investI          Ided housel         I
1-ment of t         t-keeping I          I
iUS $ 133 1         Imeasures I          I
IMillion  I         Iwith the I
I                    Ispread   I          Imills/   I
I                    lover a   I          Iplants   I         I
I                    112 year  I          town      I
I                    lperiod). I          Iresourcesl
I                    I          I         I         I         I
The results of energy audits in 47 industries and power plants
indicates that the annual energy savings potentials of the
economically viable options corresponds to a net annual savings
of Tk.20 crores in these units. At the national level the pure
energy savings potentials could be in the level of TK. 114 crores
annually. The industries/plants having implemented some of the
recommended house keeping and quick fix measures have already
achieved a total of Tk.1.8 crores savings recLurring annually.
Director
Dated : 25th Feb.1988                     Energy Monitoring Unit



-39-
Ito be filled in by the Head   I
lof the sponsoring Agency       I
15. (a) Has the project been inspected after its completion ?
-Yes
(b) Have all the components of the projects been completed
satisfactorily in all respects ?
-Yes
(c) Is the project generally capable of fulfilling all the
objectives laid down in the PP ? If yes ,please give a
short descriptions of the intangible benifits also ; if
not,piease state reasons.
-Yes
The broad objectives of the project was to draw up an
overall national energy conservation and diversification
program focussing on improving the energy use efficiency in
industrial and power sectors. Within this program, detailed
energy audits upto a maximum of 40 medium to large energy.-
intensive industries/facilities were to be carried out and
the results packaged into a project (s) to be implemented
to achieve the identified energy savings / substitutiLpn.
Towards this goalEMU's main responsibilities include
policy,cr-ordination,planning,promotion,provision of
technical assistance and training and monitoring of energy
conservation activities throughout the country. In general
the step by step achievements corresponding to the detailed
project objectives are listed as follows :
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I  Sl.l.   I                         PP ONECTIvES                                          ACIIEVIENTS                                               Re"S:
I     01       Preparation of institutinal objectives and              Consultant has subsitted report(E.11 on furctions t The E1d established  vide notification ho.P I 1IR
legal fraork for execution of objectives.            :     services of ELU. The report recommends that E!M    IIl7113i-32;41B  dated Jan 23,19Mis planaed to
:I                                                         will perform field audits, onitor data, mintaia    be transferred to Revenue Budget effective from
:           I                                                          technical library, assist in implementation of          Ist July lfLi.bhe IIIED,Planniag Comission I Ue1
:                                                          Energy Efficiency Ibprovenet Options (EE1Ws),          energyand linetal Resources,in their evaluations 
prxess loan, assist in preparation of tender          has felt that a Legal Framewrk is necessary to
doctments for industries, train technical                enable EIIU to function affectively and in this
:  :                                                    :  apersonnel, co-ordinate on Fovt. policy decisions      respect END is already in the process of dravitg
o energy satters and act as fecal point in this         up a draft Legal Frame  oark for the consideration:
I:                                                        field. The report has been reviewed by Energy           o of the competent authority.
I                                                                   I Conservation Coordination Group (EMSt6  and           :
accepted after due incorporation of the views                                                              :
:                                                                   : of its members.
:     Refeence: lrganisation of ElMI Wrk Progran                 ;
I                                                                    *               Report (E.vJ
1     02    1 Training of EMIt staff in energy auditin;l            : Alst all f3U Officers bave received on the job           The PP objective of training of EM  staff in
: : conservation mleasures and application.             Itraining suppleaented by local trainings at BIIEC U   Energy Auditing I conservation censues and ti e
PATC. Eight Officers have received foreign               application cf study is coipleted.
:  training on Patro'euo lanageaeut and Specialized       Further trainings and aaapoeer development,
:  Energy Conservation and Energy Auditing Practice.    ahich is a continuous process,may be undertaken
:  :                                                    :under rants by ftreign donor ageKies.
Attached: Appendix- C
.                                                             .                                                       . 
..p .                                                                                                          .pt
:           *                                                     ,  .                                                      :                                                      :                        p-
:~ ~~                   ~           ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :  ,   : 
:___  :                                                            :    -------__ _---_  _-_______                                                      _. -___--       _ _--     .
: 03    1Preparation of long term  atinal energy              : 3ased oo ewtensive study and field audits of 47    h2 Th bective is cotlete.
:  conservation/efficiency pregram/policy.              : industries the Consultants have subitted Nrational yThe iplementation of the prograolpelicy is
Industrial Energy Conservation/Substitution         : proposed tg be taken on band after Ellls transfer:I
:   :: Program. The report details Bangladesh Energy Eto retenue budget and receipt ef the Technical
:           :                                                       : States,l existintg government pol icies and savings  Iassist1ance.:
:   :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ potential. As per report, investuentof US S133                                        ::
l lillien will outlay a potential national energy
:     I - -                                                   : savin3s estimated at $64 llillien annually based onI.                                    
:      Reference . Nlational Industrial Energyr
t                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ConservationlSubstitntion Program  I 
-:~                                            -                    :.  .               Reor  I6:
* .tan-    .    Ss4 -:i      - -!          - r-            -*a          -    -    .   -.,   :r   .       . - .:-                                               ,      :        .,.
-t8~-_s-;'  W_ = .- X, '_, j.=  - ib:'  -.  ..  ''  ' ''  ' _ . _7 ' ' 
*- ;                                                                                      .'I



S Sl.hlo.   I                      PP OJECTIVES                   I                     ACHIEVEEITS                    I                       RElAS                         I
:                                                              -  -                                                                                                        :
04       Energy auditing/energy engineering in about        : 47 industrial units and paper plants were             The objective is complete.
I  40 energy intensive industrial/pomer stations.       subject to energy Audits and the results were         There are over 1100 lirge and sediu  industries
I1          :                                                     2 packaged in the Suauary Audit Report E.3 hbich is   ninBaglidesh and EIIU in its second phase work    :
:           I                                                     I again backed up by each individual plaot's            wishes to continue Energy Auditing, mnitoring
:  audit report.                                         and conseryation progra.
Reference : Sumary Audit Report E.0 and its
:           :                                                     :                  Appendix a update.
2  1  I  -         The objective is complete.
I    05    : Seminars on energy efficiency and cost saving           Five sesinars on Tea, Textile and Jute were          The holding of seuinars for creating awareness
:  for the energy users ilodustrial and Poserl.      : conducted with total attendance of over '50            on energy conservation and its savings potentials
I participants.                                         is a continuous process and EllJ envisages
centinuatioa of this progras.
I  I  *     The objective is   plete.
06       Preparation of Energy Conservation/Efficiency         A An energy audit manuaI has been prepared. Brochure! Since holdiag v   : .inars and training sessions
B Brochures for energy users.                           on energy conservation in Jute, Textile and Tea       is a continuous process farther handcuts Lod
:           :                                                        aere distributed during seminars. Handouts on        brochures say he distributed as necessary.
: energy conservation were also distributed by ElNl
:  officials to industrylplant representatives
:                                                    : during lecture sessions at the Bilk and Dhaka
:           :                                                     : {University.
:     Referance: Seminar brochures and lecture                  '
handouts.
I  :                                                 : The'ebjective is co_plete.                         :
07       Establishment of energy related library (books,       Over 700 volumes of books, journals and technical    The enrichment of library resource uaterials
:  literatures, journals, educational equipments etc. Iliterature have been collected. Also acquired are    is a continuous process and Esu envisages
some essential tools and equipment to facilitate     continuation of this program.
energy audits.
Reference: MIUs Remort.on Library.             _
';                                                 :IThe objective is complete.
08    1 Preparation of Project Document for emecutienl    i 47 industries nere energy audited jaintl% by            The pfet:ndmrerj   project reports on viable
implementation of energy conservationlefficiency     Consultants and EvhU. The individual audi' report     options has been prepared indicating the
measures in selected industries for attracting       on each of the industries have been sent to the       financial investment requirements and its
:           :.  I financing by Donor Agencies.                    I concerned industries and power plants. Each        : analysis. Farther study, updating and refin.sg
:  :                                                 : report contains the study an energy consumption        will be undertaken prior to erecution and
2 patterns, the test results, the recommenUations       iaplementation'of the energy conservation -easuresl
i -         :                                                     : on efficient energy use equipment wise, the           in the first phase.
:         - :                                        : Energy EfficiencyIlmprovement Options EEIOsl with:
  1' _ ' '    :    '    '    ':                   '            : financial analysis (i.e. investment requ:reaents, 2
rr-':Se  4  s   '^=-fa .  -            ... :  :  I_operating costs, pay back period. 1IMR etc..The   I      -           r           . .
,,v I  sumary of-eergy conservatiWo             c-,k eisres     -                           .:I
*1 i   _                -are reflected-in Appendix-A update of Supeary
*:    -            - I  :RAudit Report E.B which is backed up by a seperate.
e,-_ 4a_  S       e                             :- -  ...   .2: detailed tecK ical file ok each industry Iplant.   2                                                           ....I... ......-.... -
*4.Iadustrr ..iselRRL..s se)       I                  .     .'- 
-  . -  v-                                         ! [ i        S      s t).i  ptio   se:    j~ W::*~                  *~*. .     .. .                     .
~~~~~_____ :____  _ _____  _ _                                                              -  I .___.......  .....  
r             -- - -.       ''-    -;                  . .:  '. t .                               '_,
-     - -. ..4S.  -  . 2 -        -.      . -   ..      ...                                             -      -***       .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------- 
4'. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-



*%  .-42-
At the national level it is estimated that the pure enegy -
savings potential could be in the level of 19.05 peta joules
which corresponids to a net annual savings of lk.114 crores.
Implementation of simple house-keeping measures in some
indtustries/plant has already resulted in a net annual
savings of over Tk.1.86O crores. With the current EIIU's
work programme and implementation of the energy
conservation options spread over a 12 year period.the
annual .savinqs potenitial of Tk.114 crures canl be captured.
(d) Any other remarks/suggestion :
-In view of EMLI's continuous nature of work programme and
its service benefits to the community,it is necessary that
the organization be transferred to the Revenue BEudget
from its existing status in the Development Budget.
16. Remarks,if any of the--Secretary of the Administrtive Ministry.--
Secretary
( SUAFIUL AAU)
Dated : Febr-uary 1988          Ministry of Energy & MirSldbJResources
gfoistry of Energy & Mineral Resource
Governmenl of the People's Repubilo
of 8angladesh.
Distribution of the completed Reports :
(1) Implementation Monitoring and                    -One copy (with a
Evaluation Division.                             copy of the PER/PP)
(2) Ministry of Finance                              -One copy
(3) Proqramminq & Appraisal Division.                -One copy
Planninq Commission.
(4) EMU                                              -Three copies
(5) File copy, M/U E & MR                            -One copy



-43-
APFENUIX - A
SUMM*ARY OF CON9ULTANIS REFORrs       -     --
The consultancy agreement between UOB and Arther D. little Inc.in
association with Bechtei Group Inc.and Rahman Rahman HKq 84 Co.provided for
103.25 man-months of services.Workinq with EMU, a program of work was
undertaken by the consultants to establish an industrial energy
conservation and efficiency improvement program focussing of energy audits
of plants in major- energy using Industrial Sectors such as Fertilizr,
Power Ge-neration, fulp St Paper, Jute, Textile, Tea Factories, Sugar,
Minerals etc.
Four  jiajor reports were issued durino this program of worl by the
consultants
(i)   DrQanization of EMU / Work Program Report No-E.4 which
discusses and recommends EMUs mision.functions and potential
structures.
(ii)  National Eneroy Conservation / Substitution_P_g9ram Ite yrt
No.E.6 which identifies maior features of a national program in
terms of industry / technology focus,infrastructure needs,
potential avenues for financing,education and promotional
requirements.
(iii) Summary Audit Report No.E.8 which summarizes the results of 47
plant visits and energy audits under taken with field test
equipment.
(iv)  Executive Summary Reg2t No.E.l0 which summarizes the
information contained in rerorts E-4,E-6S & E-10.
All the above reports in draft form were submitted to the Energy
Conservation Co-ordination Group (EECG) members and the Ministry of Energy
& Mineral Resources for its review and suggestions. All the recommended
changes anid comments have been duly incorporated in the final submitted
reports listed above.
The Consultants / EMU have submitted, in addition to the reports
already listed before,the following manuals/brochures as well 5
(i)   Ener  ____dt _Manual which summarizes the various audit
procedures and techniques for use by EMU's audit engineers.
(ii)  Seminar Brochure on Energy Efficiency in Tea Factories.
(iii) Seminar Brochure on Enerqv Efficiency in Jute Mills.
(iv)  Seminar Brochure on Energy Efficiency in Textile Mills



-44-
fPPENDIIX - S
LIST OF E(!UIPMENI'S AND FURNI'I'URES
I                I l EMS               IPROPOSED I AClUAL  I
I----------------------------------------------_I    
11. Energy Measurinq Equipment           1  Lot
I   a. Micro-Computer with Printer  1 4 Nos.  I 3 Nos.
b. Audit InstrLuments                         I  807.   I
I   c. Slide Projector & Screen          I1 No   I  1 No   I
I   d. Camera                          I  I No   I  1 No   I
I   e. Pocket Calculator                I 1) Nos  1 22 Nos
f. Uverhead Projector                  1 No  I  1 No   I
I                                      I          I 
12. 'Transport/Vehicles                                      I
t                                      U-------------- -  I -
I   a. Car (12;00/1300 CC)             ' 2 Nos       I No   I
I   b. Microbus (9/15 seater)            I 1 No   1 2 No
I   c. Jeep                              I    No   I None
I   d. Bi-Cycle                        I None   1  1 No   I
I                                      I          I          l
*~~                          I                     I
13. Office Equipments
:------________---,-
a. Intercom relephone Sets         1  1 Lot  1  1 Lot  I
I   b. Photocopy Machine                   1 No   I  1 No
:   c. Enqlish 'fypewriter             I 4 No   1 8 No
I   d. Bengali 't'ypewriter            1 5 Nos.  1 2 Nos.   I
e. Duplicating Machine             1 1 Nos.   1 1 Nos.
f. Air Conditioner                 I 2 Nos.  I 6 Nos.   :
I . Book-binding Machine           I         -    I 1 Nos.
:   h. Paper Cutting Machine                -    1 1Nos.   :
:   i. Refrigerator (2 CFT) I            2 Nos.   1 1 Nos.   I
I   ,j. Ceiling Fan                    I 16 Nos. 1 18 Nos. I
:                                      I          I          I
14. Furnitures                         II
:   ----------__
:   a. Full Secretariate 'lable        1 6 Nos.  1 13 Nos.
I   b. Half Secretariate rable         1 6 Nos.  1 6 Nos.   I
I   c. I'ypist lable                   1 6 Nos.  1 6 Nos.  :
I   d. Urdinary 'Table                 1 6 Nos.   : 6 Nos.   I
I   e. Small Secretariate l'able       :    -    I 14 Nos. :
a   f. 'lea lable                           -    : 1 Nos.   I
I   g. Simple Cushion Chair            : 35 Nos. 1 54 NoNs  I
:   h. Cane Chair                      1 21 Nos. 1 28 Nos. :
:   i. Special Cushion Chair           1 7 Nos.   I 40 Nos. 1
:   j. liltinq Cushion Lhair           I 3 Nos.   I    -
:   k. Conference Table & Chair           1 Nos.   I    -
:   1. Stool                           I 8 Nos.  : 4 Nos.  I
8-



4 ,*
-45-
APFPEN I X -   .
LIS-I UF EU1FPMENIS AND FURNhJIlURES
I                  1 l E11S                IPROPOSED I ACTUAL   I
t   mn. Steel Alnireah                    I 8 Nos.  I 1.S Nos. I
t   r r. File Cabi net                     I 12 Nos. I 31 Nos. I
* t   o. Wooden Almirah                          -        1 Nos.   I
t   p. What not (Wooden Rack)              t1s Nos. t 17 Nos. I
t q. Felephone Rack cum Showcase   I                  S   5Nos. :
I   r. BJook Shel4                         I    -       t 2Nos.   I
1   s. Foot Rest                           I    -       I 4Nos.  1
t   tt. Iron Safe                          I    -       I 1 Nos.  I
t   u. Cataloque Cabinet                   t    -       I I Nos.  I
'.  v. Journal Rack                        :    -    .*:2 Nos.   t
w. Paper Heating box  .                      -     t 1 Nos.  I
. CUthers                              :    -It 1 Lot    :
* Cost details are givdn in revised PP : paqes 36 - 43



''  *.   .                                                 -46-
APPNDII - C
TRAININ6 OF EMU OFFICERS
A. LOCAL  TRAINING
I SI.No.  I        Field of Training          INo. of Officersl   Duration    I         Renarks
I  01.   IOn the job training in energy       I               !During entire  I
lauditingiconservation seasures and 1               Iconsultancy    I
I         lapplicatlon of stuldy.             I All Officers  Iperiod of 24   ITraining is
I         I                                   I               laonths         Icomplete.
tII                                                           I               t
02.   ISuppleemntary training at BNDC,PAiCI               I               I
I         Itand other organizations in the    I               I               I                         t
If ield of Conputer Programming in   I                              I
I         WASIC, Nord Processing, Computer                    I                            I
*         IHuardwares, CPN, Nanagement, Safety 1              12-4 Weeks      I                         I
I         land Security etc.                  I 12(Twelve)   leach            ICompleted.
9. FOREIGN TRAINIIIS
I Sl,NIo.  I       Field of Training          INo. of Officersl   Duration    I         Remarks
-   ---    ------ -----    ------------------------------------                        ---- 
01.   IPetroleue Nanagement and Highly    I               I               l                          I
I         IISpecialized course on Energy      I               I
I         IConservation.                      I   4(Four)    1 9 Weeks Each  ICompleted
I                           I                                 I               I                         I
1  02.   ITraining in energy management,      I               I               I                         t
I         lconservation/lfficiency and        I               II
I         lorientatian cow se.                I   l(Onel      1   4 Weeks    15theduled
I  03.   :Energy Audits in Power & Yarious   I   4(Four)    14 seeks Each   ICompleted
I         lotber industrial uwits.            I               I               I
I         I      .                                                                                      :
t   |   .~~                               ~      ~        ~      ~~ I   I                1 
I



-47-
Project Completion Report on the Methanol
Research Project
INTRODUCTION
Ip the early years of the nineteen eighties when the bulk
of the foreign exchange earnings of Bangladesh was being spent
for the import of crude oil and petroleum products, the government
wanted to examine the possibilities of methanol use in Bangladesh
as an extender of middle distillates and in other non-conventional
applications. Methanol, which is a liquid at normal temperature
and pressure, can be manufactured relatively easily from inde-
geneous natural gas. Thus the Methanol Research Project came
to be a component of the Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabi-
litation Project (IDA Credit 1357-BD). The Ministry of Energy
and Mineral Resources, Government of Bangladesh was the adminis-
trative authority.
The aim of the research project was to find out the sui-
tability of methanol as a liquid fuel by itself or as fuel blends
foir use in the domestic and industrial sectors.
It was mentioned in the Project Appraisal Report of the
World,Bank (Report No. 4295-BD) that the Methanol Research
Project would have to be carried out in the Chemical Engineering
Department of BVBH in collaboration with a experienced foreign
research institution. It was also mentioned that it would be
a condition of disbursement of the pootion of the proposed credit'
allocated to this component that BUET had entered into an agreement
satisfactory to IDA for the required collaboration.



-48-
Thus, inspite of the fact that the research proposal (PC-II)
was approved by the Ministry of Planning on 16th January, 1984,
the physical work could not"be sta'rted'until early 1986 after
the signing of a contract of research collaboration with the
Institute Francais du Petrole (IFP) of. France with prior approval
of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and I.D.A. Later,
another contract was signed (with similar approval) with Martech/
KVB of U.S.A.
The research project was carried out by a research group
consisting of academic staff members of the Chemical Engineering
Department (BUET) and a few recruited research staff. Some assis-
tance was received from the foreign research institutions men-
tioned above.
TI     THE RESEARCH PROJECT AND FIMDINGS
The Methanol Researeh Project was concerned with the
investigations of the possibility of using methanol as a domestic
lighting and cooking fuel and as a fuel for industrial burners.
Fuel blends of methanol and other hydrocarbon fuels were also
investigated. Based on the findings of the present research work,
the following general conclusions may be made:
(i) StudX of Methanol Blends:
'The dbmehtic use of methanol has been very limited due
to its toxic'ty and the low calorific value per unit weight
'compared to other conventional liquid fuels. Kerosene which is
-.used in Bangladesh as a domestic lighting and cooking fuel



-49-
is immiscible in.methanol. If blends of kerosene and methanol
are to be made, a third component (cosolvent) is to be used.
The cosolvents used successfully in the present study included
higher aliphatic alcohols (ethanol, propanol, butanol etc),
benzene and its homologues and ketone. These three component
blends are stable and do not exhibit hygroscopic behaviour.
However the volumes of cosolvents required in these three compo-
nent blends are nearly equal the volume of methanol in these
blends.
Methanol may be co-produced with higher alcohols using
a modified.catalytic system. This will help to make stable
blends with kerosene without having to import large amounts of
cosolvent alcohols. This would be a costly venture. Toxicity
problem associated with the use of neat methanol may thus be
decreased to a large extent.
Two component methanol fuel blends may be prepared by
mixing methanol with low boiling (end point less than 2000C)
petroleum fraction (fractions of natural gas condensates, gaso-
line and high octane blending component).
The toxicity problem associated with the use of neat,
methanol would be decreased to a large extent by the blending
process. The volatility would be decreased as well.
(ii) Use of Blends in Existing Domestic Applianes
Locally available kerosene cookers are not suitable for
use with neat methanol and its blends. This is largely due to



-50-
problems of leakage of methanol vapour to the surroundings and
vapour locking in fuel lines.
Existing lamps (Kupies andehurricane lanterns) cannot
give useful illumination with methanol. Very dilute blends with
kerosene may be used inthese devices to give comparable illumi-
nation. However# this would not help in the large scale substi-
tution.
(iii) Development and Study of Methanol Lamp and Cooker
A methanol mantle lamp and a cooker for domestic use were
designed, fabricated and tested in the laboratory. The design
of both these devices are based on the principle of self evapora-
tion of liquid methanol. Evaporation is obtained by collecting
a portion of the heat of combustion and then conducting this
heat into the liquid methanol in the fuel tank.
The developed lamp uses a mantle within which methanol
vapour is burned causing the mantle to become incandescent, giving
out useful lamp showed that illuminance is much superior (appro-
ximately 20 times greater at 1 meter) to those of hurricane
lanterns.
For the methanol cooker, tests were carried out of com-
bustion efficiencies, turn down ration and heat utilization
efficiencies with satisfactory results. Comparisons of overall
performances were made with existing kerosene cookers and natural
gas cookers. Better performances were found with the developed



-51-
methanol cooker. Test carried out with ethanol and two component
methanol blends showed that these fuels can also be used in this
developed cooker.
For both the appliances developed the unburnt methanol
vapour concentrations in the flue gases are well within the thre-
hold limit value (TLV).
(iv) Use of Mechanol and Blends in Industrial Burners
Investigations carried out on the use of methanol and
mixtures of methanol with petroleum fuel oils in an industrial
bukner dedigned to burn petroleum fuel oils indicate that there
should not be any major problem of such substitution.
(v) Further Work Necessary
a) One aspect of methanol utilization in the domestic
sector that would require serious study is the technique for
handling methanol and filling methanol into small containers.
b) Also an exhaustive study of material compatibility
with methanol is needed to identify materials thatccan be safely
used with methanol. The available time was insufficient to make
any conclusive observation. For this reason, this work is still
continuing in the Chemical Engineering Department (BUET).
III    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The three-year long research project had a late start
as compared to the Qther components of the IDA credit 1357-BD.



-52-
This was largely due to the precondition of research collabora-
tion with foreign research incititutions/establishment. Also,
this was a project .it which IDA"was involved with an educational
institution for the first time in Bangladesh and the administra-
tive ministry also was different (The Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Resources and not the Ministry of Education). Thus every
administrative decision took a longer time than is usual. For
any purchase or for recruitment of research personnel, the
ministry had to be consulted and permission taken and then IDA
had to be approached for approval. This two-tier process was
lengthy and time consuming.
The total expenditure (both Foreign Exchange and Local
Currency) was financed by IDA. The SAFE account out of which
the local expenditure was met was opened with permission from
the.government quite some time after the commencement of the
project work. However, the SAFE account was a great help.
The inexperience of the BUET staff also contributed to
the slowing down of paper work. In this respect the project team
in greatly indebted to the local office (Dhaka) of the World
Bank for their help and co-4operation.
The research project ended on 30th June 1988 and at that
time a draft report was prepared and submitted to the Ministry
of Energy and Mineral Resources. Copies were also submitted to
the World Bank local office in Dhaka. After about a year, on



-53-
May,23rd, 1989, the ministry held an inter-ministerial meeting
on the reRort. A final report was submitted in August, 1989 to
the ministry incorporatiiig the recommendations of this meeting.
The total money allocated to this research project (Base
cost plus physical and price contingencies) was 0.53 million
U.S. Dollars equivalent to Taka 129.86 lakh. The total expenses
incurred for the project was Taka 101.61 lakh.
.   .   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V



6 4'-
-S4-
PART - I1
PROECT OOITION REPORT CII TRE
GAS BASED PROJECTS FEASIBILITY STUDY.
1.      Introduction i
The Feasibility Study on gas Bseed Projeote was financed by IDA
(Credit No. 1357-BD-Part-D). The object of the study was to present
a program to utilize the natural ps resources In Bangladesh(estimated
rzserve consideredat that timewas 11 Trillion Cubic Feet) for
projecto which will generate foreign *xihange either directly as
sarketable export comodities or as substitution products for
lports which require hard ourrenoy for their purchase.
The works of the study commenced on 19 April 1985 and the Final
Rowort was submitted on 23 July 1986. It wa carried out by Petrobangla
through the Consultant Jmes Chemical Engineering Inc., USA with
local assistance from Project Managemnt and Consultanoy Services Ltd.,
Dkaka)Banitladesh. The total contract value of the consultancy was
MSS 700,000.00 with 55.6 Namontha. Afterwards 8 additional mn-
months were granted to the Consultant.
.       T*he Study Project and Findin*     :
Ihe Study was divided in to two phases Phase-I and Phase-I1.
Phase-I Included the following t
-   identification of the potential use of natural gas upto
2010 A.D.
- a detailed review of the domestic, regional and world markets
of the major end uses of natural gas.
-  prelimin-ry estimation of capital end oper-ting coats and net
present values and economic rates of return for each potential
use of the natural oae.
The Phase-I analysis should result in a short list of the most
attraetive lnvestment opportunities for Gas Based Projects in Banrladebh.
PhaIse-I would have focussed on the following I
-   detailed feasibility study of the selected inventment opportunities ln-
eluding structuringof the project design and spelfic lmplemen-
tation plan to attr%ct and -tan foreign equity perticipation In
these venturee,



-55-
This phase was supposed to be carried out by Consultant after
GOB and IDA approval of the recommended investment opportunities.
The consultant reviewed in details the existing and planned uses of
natural gas and based on their analysis the basic cunwlative consun-
ption for ras upto the year 2010 was estimated as 8 to 9 TCF. So, the
amount of natural gas remaining after meeting the basic demand was
eonasidered to be around 2 to 3 TCF (with estimated reserve of 11 TCF ).
Ibis      was considered available for utilization as pa based
projects.
Ihe consultant reviewed 62 natural gas derived products associated
with coneumption of large quantities of gas, etch of which was
evaluated for possible production in Bangladesh. The criteria used
for selection for further study were -
- Adequate domestie market
- Export market potential
- Combination of both domestic or export market
All the products considered have been made from natural
gas on a commercial basis.
Production cost analysis was also made for all
products.
Based on the above analysis the consultant finally suggested
following six products divided into two categories, Export
and Domestic (substitution) :
(1)     Anhydrous Amonia                Export
(11)    Methanol                        Export, Domestic
(111)   Urea                            Expoort
(Iv)    PVC                             Domestic
tv)     LmH                             Export (Tentative)
(vI)    CHG (Locomotives)               Domestic (Tentative)
AccordinR to the Consultant the export products# anhydrous
amionim, methanol, urea and LNG all have sizeable regional
markets which can be reached from Bandladesh.



-56-
Discussion on Proiectes
(i)    PvC
A PVC Plant was suggested to satiefty the local market and to
provide materials from which local labour and industry can
further develop.Durinj the study Bangladesh had about half
the per capita PVC use of Burma, 45% that of India, 13% that of
Indonesia and 0.66% that of the USA.
PVC was projected to have the highest IRR (E) frow the
Imported VCM and     a very satisfactory IRR(E) from
natural gas based locally produced VCM.
The Consultant recommended for two phases of PVC production.
The amount of natural gas to be used with imported VCM in the
first phase of PVC productionwas nil. Even in the second Phase
with local VCM manufacture it was minimal.
('-)   Methanol
Markets for methanol were identified as both export and domestic.
Domestic demand was projected as -
- substitute for domestic liquid fuel,
- substitute for diesel or even fuel oil.
- possible future conversion to kerosene,
dieel or fuel oil.
Export demand consisted of chemical end uses and
increased fuel use, initially as MTBE ( a methanol
derivative) and as a co-solvent with TBA (a by-
product of propylene oxide manufacture).
Economic analysis together with mArket potential had been
worked out by the consultant. The use of methanol as Domestie
fuel would have problems as it was extremely flammable, exhibited
poor burning luminosity, toxic etc. Research on these were
undergoing.
(ill). Anhydrous Ammonia (Exsort)
Although with the given basis IRR(E) wes only 7.7% the required
range of 12 to 18% could be achieved if tihe investment was sigmd-
ficantly reduced. According to the consultant a lumpeum contract
through a joint-venture foreign partner would achieve this. Market,
pricing and ttming details hL. been worked out by the eon.ult.nt.



-57-
Civ)      _laAmmonUrea (ExMort) s
Export markets would exist in the neighbouring countries of
Asia and Japanw Minimum capital coat for an a onia/urea plant in
Dangladesh was around 275 million USD. For this coat the aasonis/
urea plant IRRCE) varies between 12 and 16.1% for US$ 3 and USS I/tCF
of pas respectively.
(y)     Lliulfied Natural Ons (LNG) : Export
Market for LEG was expe:ted to be adequate for a,4000 MTD plant
beginning fuiscale operation In 1997. Netbqck price was assumed
to be US5 138/ton. Major importers for Bangladesh LTG might be
Korea & Japan.
A standard 500 W4CFD LNG plant would require a commitment of
gas of the order of 5*5 to 4 TCF for 20 years economic life of
the project. The existing reserve of Bangladesh was insufficient
for a standard IMN plmnt.
(vI)    CNG
The consultant had not carried out detailed exercise to establish
Its viability. However, they commented that CNG would be a good option
based on the available data.
For the selected products the summary of the economic analysis
is as follows based on two gaSo prices. Ninimum capital cost has
been shown on the basis of limpeus contract instead of cost plus
fixed fee contract.



- 58 -
IRR (C)                         IRR (3) s
Lase Case                     MInIMla Ca ,ital
Cost Cage
gas Priee
Capital USD/tm BTU      Capital           Oan PriCe
1.CO                      S D      M
AahYirous A ouia  281        7.7   12.5    204           12.0        17.4
IRa                793       7.8   17.1    575           12.0        22.5
Methanol            316      10.5  16.5    283           12.0        18.3
PVCtIlported VCM)   45       20.2  20.2      45          20.2        20.2
PVC (M booed) (1)  165        8.5   9.5    129           12.0        13.0
PcC(NO baed) t2)   165       12.9  13*7    129           16.7        17.6
AmouiaAlrea         495       4.1   7.5    275           12.0        16.1



-59-
12W. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLDSENTATION
This study projectwas earlier thought to be Implemented by
Planing Cosmission. Then It was transferred to BCIC and afterwards
to Petrobangla. From the submission of proposals by the bidders to the
signing of the oontract with the oonsultnnt It took an appreolable
time because of the above reason.
This project (Phase-I) was scheduled to be completed by 8 months.
Additionally sore than three months was given to the consultant for
submission the final report but It took another three and half
months by the consultant to do the same.
the
Kn the course of the study/project office got enough help and coop-
eration from the World Bank Rea!dent Office in Dhaka.
Several review ueetingc were held for this project in the Ministry
of Energy & Mineral Resources and one at World Bank Head Quarters In
on
Washington D.C. BnsedAhe result of the study it was decided by both
08 and World Dank not to proceed with the Second Phase of the Study.
The total allocation for this project was 8DR 26.5 millionoS.US U 0.69
million was spent for first phase of the study. The balance amount
was diverted afterwards to some other study project of Petrobangla
by the IDA.



- 60
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1357-BD)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Credits
Credit Title             Purpose            Year of AyRroval          Status
Second Gas Development  Gasfield                  1985               Ongoing
Project (Cr. 1586-BOD) Appraisal
and Development
Refinery Modification   As implied                 1986               ongoing
and LPG Recovery and    by Title
Distribution Project
(Cr. 1749-BD)
2.    Proiect Timetable
Item               Date Planned             Actual Date
Identification                                    October 1981
Appraisal Mission        May 7, 1982              May 7, 1982
Credit Negotiations      January 1983             March 1983
Board Approval           March 1983               May 10, 1983
Credit Signature               -                  May 16, 1983
Credit Effectiveness                              March 23, 1984
Credit Closing           December 31, 1986        December 31, 1989
Credit Completion        June 30, 1987            June 30, 1990



-61-
3.    Credit Disbursement
Disbursements (in US$ Million)
Credit 1357-pD
IDA Fiscal Year          Estimated          Actual              Actual % of
and guarter              Cumulative         Cumulative          Estimated
1983/84     1                           -                            0
2                 2.7                                   0
3                 4.6               -                   4
4                 7.5               0.3                 4
1984/85     1                 11.0               0.4                 4
2                14.4               0.6                 4
3                17.6               0.8                 5
4                20.8               2.0                10
1985/86     1                 23.7               2.8                12
2                26.2               3.8                15
3                26.8               4.4                16
4                27.3               6.4                23
1986/87     1                 27.8               7.1                26
2                28.3               7.4                26
3                28.5               8.4                29
4                 -                 9.5                33
1987/88     1                  -                13.0                46
2                 -                13.7                48
3                 -                14.0                49
4                 -                14.2                50
1988/89     1                  -                14.7                52
2                 -                15.5                54
3                 -                15.7                55
4                 -                16.1                56
1989/90     1                  -                16.1                56
2                 -                16.1                56
3                 -                16.2 ./             57
4                 -                16.8 l/             59
1990/91     1                  -                16.8 1/             59
Date of Last Disbursement: July 17, 1990.
I/ Credit 1357-BD was disbursed until July 17, 1990 against commitments.
SDR 13.4 million remained undisbursed and was cancelled.



-62-
4.    Proiect Implementation
Appraisal Estimate       Actual Completion
Component                  Completion Date               Date
1. Refinery Rehabilitation    December 1986             June 1990
2. BPC MIS Technical           March 1986               D -ember 1989
3. Energy Efficiency           December 1986            June 1988
4. Gas Based Projects          September 1988           September 1988
5. Research and Development   December 1986             June 30, 1988
5.    Proiect Cost a d Financing
A. Proiect Cost
Aooraisal Estimate                Actual
Foreign                        Foreign
Local Exchange              Local    Exchange
Costs  Costs      Total    Costs      Costs       Total
--------------------------US$ Million --------------------------
Refinery
Rehab.            6.0      17.0     23.0               16.85        16.85
BPC MIS           0.1        0.6      0.7                0.60         0.60
Energy Eff.       0.3        1.7      2.0         0.3    1.35         1.65
Gas Bases Proj.   0.2        2.1      2.3                0.70         0.70
Research and Dev. 0.2        0.2      0.4                0.43         0.43
Base Cost          6.8      21.6     28.4         0.3   19.93        20.23
Physical Contin.  0.7        2.4      3.1
Price Contin.      1.1       3.4      4.5
Total Project
Cost               8.6      27.4     36.0         0.3   19.93        20.23



-63-
B. Proiset Flnancing
Planned
Source      Cateaorm           (Credit Agreementi          Aatual
(US$'000)                  (US$'000)
IDA         1 Squipment From
Part A                  i3.65                    10.00
2A Consultants     8.35                     3.48
2B Consultants     2.14                     1.37
2C Consultants     2.73                     1.27
3 Equipment &
Training       0.26                     0.03
4 Research &
Development    0.48                     0.33
5  Training        0.76                     0.18
Special Account *                                 0.14
Unallocated              5.61
Subtotal                33.98                    16.80
3RL                                   2 02                     1 80
36Q00                    18.60
*Represents currency exchange rate fluctuations for transactions made under
the special account.
6.    Proiect Results
A.  Direct Benefits:    Not applicable:
B. Economic Impactt
Appraisal
Eetimate       Actual
Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) for the
Refinery RehabilLtation    68%             42%



-64-
comments s
The actual ERR has been calculated according to the methodology used in
the SAR, namely:  incremental cost for crude oil and incremental value fcr
products according to world market prices and incremental volumes and
operating costs according to the plant design for ERL.
The economic rate of return at 42% is robust but below appraisal
estimates, primarily due to the decline in crude oil and petroleum
products prices that has occurred since 1986.
C. Zinancial Impact:
Appraisal
Estimate       Actual
Financial Rate of
Return J/                   17              11
ERL's financial statements (balance sheet, income statement and funds flow
statement), comparison with appraisal projections and comments are given
in Annex 1.
1/    Before taxes for ERL's refinery rehabilitation component.  The lower
rate of return is due to project implementation delays, increases in
operating costs whle the processing fee remained at June 30, 1987 level
and lower than expected throughout FYs9O-92.
D. Studies:
Purpose
Defined as                            Impact
at ADpraisal          Status          of Study
Studies:
(a) Refinery Modification  To identify            Completed       Modifications
processing                            identified
configuration                         and under
needed                                implementation.
(b) Gas Based Projects      To identify           Completed       No suitable
economically                          projects
viable projects                       were
based on natural                      identified.
gas as feed.
(c)  National Gas Grid      To identify the       Completed       The preliminary
Study                  investment and                        study is being
(Preliminary Report)  institutional                          reviewed in
changes needed to                     more detail
deliver the forecast                  under the Gas
demand for gas up                     Sector Review.
to 2005.



-65-
7.    Status of Covenants
DescriDtion of Covenant
Credit Aareement                                            Remarks
DCA 4.01    (a)  The Borrower to maintain or cause          Complied, except for
to be maintained records adequate to           adequate identifica-
reflect in accordance with consistently        ticn of local
maintained appropriate accounting              project costs.
practices the operations, resources
and expenditures of agencies responsible
for carrying out the different project
components.
(b)  The Borrower to have the accounts         Complied
audited and have the audit report
submitted to IDA within six months of
expiration of each financial year.
Proiect Aareement
PA 4.03.    (a) (i)  ERL commencing fiscal year 1987        ERL exceeded the 65/35
and thereafter, not incur any debt, if         debt/equity ratio.
after the incurrence of such debt the          In FY90, it was
ratio of the aggregate principal               69/31.
amount of ERL debt then incurred and
outstanding to its equity would be
greater than 65:35;
(ii)  ERL in fiscal year 1987 achieve          Complied
and thereafter maintain a ratio of
current assets to current liabilities
of at least 1.5:1;
(iii)  ERL shall not declare any               Complied
dividend or make any other distribution
with respect to its capital or make any
prepayment of debt, if such distribu-
tion or prepayment shall reduce the
current ratio below 1.5;
(iv)  ERL shall not incur any debt unless    Complied
a reasonable forecast of the revenues
and expenditures of ERL shows that the
projected internal cash generation of
ERL for each fiscal year during the term
of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.5 times the projected debt
service requirement of ERL in such year,
including the debt to be incurred; and
(v)  Until the completion of Part A of         Complied
the Project, ERL ehall not incur capital
expenditures for fixed or other non-current
assets (other than those required for
carrying out Part A of the Project and
for the maintenance thereof) in excess
of an aggregate amount of US$5,000,000.



-66-
8.    MuEhj2ng
Stage of               Number      Day.     Specializa-
Project     Month/       of          in     tion
Cycle       Year       Persons   Fi -.   Represented    Bating   Remarks
Through     May '82      5         12       Economist,
Appraisal                                   Financial,
Technical
August '82  4          6       Economist,
Financial,
Technical
February    3          6       Economist,         -
'83                            Financial,
Technical
Supervsn.   November                3       Economist,         2      Procurement
'83                            Financial,                Related
Technical
June '84               1       Technical           2     Procurement
Related
February '85           2       Financial,         2      Procurement
Technical                Related
July '85               2       Financial-
Technical
August '86             1       Technical
March '87              2       Technical
December '89           2       Technical,          2     Procurement
Financial                Related
General Comment:   Project progress was slow.   A recurring problem was slow
decisions and sometimes incorrect decisions on procurement.



BANOA    EFFICIlCY AND REFINEY RB4A8ILITATION PROJWr
EASTERN REFINERY LIMITED
eALiCE SiEETS
(In Million of Takes)
Fl Ending June 30:                1964                1985              196               1987               1988                1989               1990
APPRAISAL ACMAL   APPRAISAL ACTUAL   APPRAISAL ACIUAL   APPRAISAL ACTUAL   APPRAISAL ACTUA'    APPRAISL   ACrUAL    APPRAISAL ACTUAL
Current Aseto
Caa in Hnd A at Bank          19.2   22.1        28.0   14.7       34.4    6.1        39.6   15.4        57.2    16.4       55 3    61.9        53.7   40.8
Acounte Recjeieable           17.6   72.6        24.0   69.8       29.9  114.8        33.0  160.7        35.5  376.7        35.9   386.1        36.3   374.6
Stocks Spar.e Chemicals       89.1   91.5        42.7  100.7       49.7  142.8        62.2  170.5        65.9   162.7       69.9   177.2        74.1   160.5
Total Currant Aset         125.9  186.2        94.7  185.2       114.0  263.7      134.8  346.6       158.6   555.8       161.1  627.2       164.1   575.9
Toro Deposits                   14.9  83.4        48.3  115.2        95.8  115.2       173.9  125.4       222.7   139.2      272.1   149.2       323.6  201.4
Nat Aspets in Operation        262.0  126.9      472.0  107.1       860.4  145.8       606.6  211.8      539.2  298.7        471.8   507.0      404.4  524.7
masts Under Construction        83.0   11.1       87.5  103.1        57.6  142.8          -  171.3           -   317.7           -    88.6          -   119.5
Pro-Liberation Asste             2.0     2         2.0    2.0         2.0    2.0        2.0    2.0         2.0     2.0         2.0     2.0        2.0    2.0
Total fised Asset.             317.0  138.3      SS1.5  212.2       640.0  290.6       606.6  388.1      541.2  616.4        473.8  597.8       406.4  646.2
TOTAL AS6ErS                 467.8  40'.9       704.5  512.6      649.3  669.5       917.3  857.1       922.5  1313.4      907.0  1374.2       894.1  1423.5
Current Liabilitioe             15.5   82.8       15.6   91.0        15.9  111.4        17.2  159.7       79.1   264.2        79.5  241.6        79.9  279.4
Long-term Debt                 217.0  15.7      426.0  226.7       521.0  357.6       5S6.0  487.4      463.5   771.4       391.0  882.6       318.5  791.8
Paid-in Capital                174.0    50       174.0  50.0        174.0   60.0       174.0   50.0      174.0  227.4        174.0  227.5       174.0  329.5
Retained Earnin69               51.3   15.8       88.9  15.4        138.4  19.7        190.1   29.2      205.9   29.4        262.5   21.2       321.7   ?1.4
Capital Rearve                    -  123.6           -  129.5           -  130.8          -  130.8           -     1.3          -      1.3          -     1.3
Shbareoldero'Equity        225.8  189.4       262.9  194.9      312.4  20O.S       364.1  210.0       379.9   266.1      436.5   250.0       415.7  352.2
_____  ------    ------  ------     ------  ------     ------  ------    ------  ------      ------  ------     ------  ------
TOTAL LA8ILTIES                457.8  407.9      704.5  512.6       849.3  669.5       917.3  857.1      922.5  1313.7       907.0  1374.2      894.1  1423.4
Current Ratio (Time)            6.1    2.2         6.1    2.0         7.2    2.4        7.8    2.2         2.0     2.0        2.0    2.6          2.1    2.1
Debt/Equity                     49.1   41.7       61.8  53.8         62.5   64.1       59.5  69.9         55.0   74.9         47.3   77.9        39.1   69.2



6AN.Al   FICIENCY Ae REFIY REHAILITATION FROT
EASTERN R1EFIERY LIMITED
DIcNCE STAT3SES
(In Hi; 11 in of TraIe)
FY Ending _xe 30:                1964                     1965              1906                 1987               1960                1960               190
APWRAISAL ACTUAL.   APMRISAL ACTUA.   APPPAISAL ACFAL   APPRAISAL ACTUAL.  APMRAISAL ACTUAl.   ARISAL ACTUAL          FRISAL ACIUML
Pro-xmainm  A other fee          211.1  130.60        269.7  132.7       S56.0  227.4       394.0  246.5        423.8  284.7       420.7  324.8       433.9  327.9
OCUTI3Q CoSt
Rgpire a 1hintx;ane                  -                   -    1.8            -    3.4           -    2.6         16.9    3.3        17.9    4.5        19.0    4.6
Solar;o..gee" A benefits          34.0   22.40         36.6   26.3        39.1   35.4        41.5   40.6         44.0   45.4        "5.6   50.6        49.4   57.0
Leuweece                          i.2    2.30         5.6    2.6          6.4    2.9         6.1    3.6         5.4    3.4          4.7    4.9         4.0    6.6
Technical Service.                   -    0.10           -    0.2            -    0.5         4.6    0.1          4.9    0.2         5.2    0.1         5.5    0.1
Overhed                           16.7   14.30         16.0   16.0        19.3   19.8        20.4   18.1        21.6   16.9         22.9   20.6        24.3   25.3
Deperciation                      29.1   29.70         52.5   33.0        64.5   44.7        67.4   35.2         67.4   46.5        67.4   36.2        67.4   37.4
Stores spares A cheicl-          43.2   26.60         46.4   26.9        49.7   33.7        62.2   46.1        65.9   41.0         69.9   37.0        74.1   46.3
Utilities                          6.3    6.30         *.7    4.4          7.2    4.5         9.0    4.3          9.5    S.0        10.1    5.7        10.7    6.6
Others (a)                         2.1    6.80         2.3    9.0          2.4   53.8         3.1  68.0          3.3   66.3          3.6   66.5         3.7  100.8
Tetxl Operating Cost.            u14.6  110.30        166.1  22.2       160.6  190.7       214.3  216.6       236.9  234.0        248.2  247.1       256.1  286.8
Operatia Profit                   76.5   20.30        121.6   10.6       187.4   2U.7       179.7   27.9       184.9   50.7        160.5   77.7       175.8   41.1
Loee Finace Chorge                20.4   11.50        44.2   1S.9         66.7   22.4        73.7   28.4        74.1   49.3         64.3   79.6        54.3   90.2
Vorerlrprofit part.            0.7    0.40         1.0    0.8         1.3    0.8          1.3    0.9         1.4    1.2         1.5    1.5         1.5      -
Add thre (b)                         -   13.50           -   16.3            -    9.3           -   16.4           -   22.6           -   32.5            -   49.3
lewxee botoro taxes               55.4   21.90        76.4   14.1        100.4   14.1       104.7   17.0       109.4   22.6        114.7   29.1       120.0    0.2
La" Incme. tax                    26.1   10.00        38.7    7.1         50.9    3.0        53.0      -        55.4      -         58.1   10.0        60.6      -
NET DCE AFT TAX                   27.3   11.90        37.7    7.0         49.5   11.6        51.7   17.0        64.0   22.8         36.6   19. 1       69.2    0.2
RATIOS:
I_cge Before TEa/
Totel Reovngee (3)            26.2    16.7        26.4   10.6        28.2    6.6        26.6    6.9         25.8    8.0        26.8    9.0        27.7      -          5
Not Incos. Afttr Taxes/                                                                                                                                                    I-1
Operating Fined Asaat.(S)         10.4     9.5         8.0    6.5         8.5    8.1          8.5    8.0        10.0    7.6        12.0    3.8         14.6
(a). Inclu.de payoente to Bakhrabad Cs, Co. as free FY86.
(b). In,entory adjisteants. adi.steentc for prior yaara and interect and other non.-operating inco.



BANGLADESH - ERCY EFFICIENCY AND REFINPtY Re8ILITATImN PROJECT
EASTERN REFINERY LIHITED
STATE84T OF S8ACES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(In M;llion of Takes)
FY Ending June 30:                       1984                  1985                 1986                  1987                 1988                  1989                 1990
APPRAISAL  ACTUAL   APPRAISAL  ACTUAL   APPRAISAL  ACTUAL   APPRAISAL  AClJAL   APPRAISAL   ACTtAL   APPRAISAL  ACFUAL   APPRAISAL.  ACTUAL
Net Incme Before Fin. Cherges        47.7   23.40          81.9    20.9         118.2    34.2        12S.4    45.4         128.1    72.2        120.9    98.7         113.5     90.4
Depreciation                         29.1   29.70          52.5    33.0         84.6    44.7          67.4    35.2          67.4    48.5         67.4    36.2          67.4     37.4
Other Internal Sourcoe              114.1        -         31.2        -           -        -            -        -           -        -            -        -           -         -
Internal Cash Ceneration            190.9   53.10         166.6    53.9       . 179.7    78.9        192.8    80.6        195.5   120.6         188.3   134.9        180.9    127.8
EquitJ Contributions                    -        -            -       -            -        -            -        -           -   177.4             -      0.1           -    102.0
Incro-ee in LT Debt                 140.0    8.20        220.0    91.0         106.0   130.9         26.0   129.8             -   286.9             -   174.4            -      25.7
TOTAL SLIt*S                        380.9   61.30         385.6   144.9        285.7   209.8         218.8   210.4         195.5   554.9        188.3   309.4         180.9    255.5    
Interast Paid                        20.4   11.50         44.2    13.9          65.7    22.4          73.7    28.4         74.2    49.3          64.3    79.6         54.3      90.2
Asortiastion                         11.2        -         11.0        -        11.0        -         11.0        -        72.5      2.9         72.5    63.2          72.5    116.5
Totel Dtbt Service                   31.6   11.50          55.2    13.9         76.7    22.4          84.7    28.4        146.7    52.2         136.8   142.8        126.8    206.7
Change in Fixed Aeete               189.0   12.40         297.0   106.8        143.0   123.1          36.0   129.7            -   281.8             -    15.6            -      85.8
Change in working capital            95.4   28.30             -    -9.2         19.0    58.1          19.5    34.6            -    84.7           2.1   114.0          2.6   -107.6
Change in In tere Depoeite           14.9    1.70          33.4    31.8         47.0      0.0         78.6    10.2         48.8    13.8          49.4    10.0         61.5      62.2
Other Application, (a)                  -    7.40             -     1.6            -      6.2            -     7.5            -   152.4             -    27.0            -      18.4
TOTAL APPLICATIOG                   330.9   61.30         385.6   144.9        285.7   209.8         218.8   210.4        195.5   584.9         188.3   309.4        180.9    255.5
Debt Service coverage                 6.0      4.6          3.0      3.9         2.3      3.6          2.3     2.8           1.3     2.3          1.4      0.9         1.4       0.6
a. Conieste ainly of dividends. other appropristions *nd a Th. 129.5 million write down of capital roeerv                                                                            I
01
which wes ade in connection with the FY8S capital increaee.                                                                                                                      00
The FY 90 capital increase consisted of the conversion of dobt into equity.



- 70 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Comments to ERL's FYs 84-90 Financial Performance
1.    ERL's audited financial statements for FYs 84-90 have been restated to the
appraisal format to facilitate comparison. However, the appraisal projections may not
be fully comparable with actual results due to unexpected events and changes in SRL's
accounting practices. Some factors that have had a major impact on ERL's financial
performance and caused deviations from the appraisal projections are commented on
below.
2.    ERL's Processing Fee of Tk 32.5 per bbl. of crude oil and other remunerations for
crude handling, utilities, etc. have not been adjusted since June 30, 1987, while
inflation and Tk devaluations have substantially increased ERL's operating and capital
costs. However, the fall in real value of ERL's processing fee was partly comper,sated
for by increased throughput until 1989.
3.    As from FY86, ERL started to use natural gas from Bakhrabad Gas Co. as process
fuel replacing oil. In FY90, the cost of this gas was Tk 68.6 millions. The appraisal
projections assumed that ERL's costs for natural gas would be compensated for by a
"Bonus on Process Fuel Savings."   However, no bonus was introduced to adequately
compensate ERL for the cost of gas used as process fuel.
4.    ERL's throughput of crude oil increased up to FY89 but stagnated in FY90.  With
natural gas replacing fuel oil in Bangladesh, surplus fuel oil had to be exported at
depressed world market prices. GOB/BPC, therefore, decided to curtail ERL's refining
activities and import deficit products.   In 1992/93, ERL's product slate will be
improved with assistance provided under 1749-BD and less fuel oil will be produced;
this will permit ERL to increase its throughput of crude oil again.
5.    ERL's capital was increased twice during project implementation:  in FY88, mainly
by using capital reserves, and in FY90, by conversion to equity of ADP debts to GOB.
This was done to improve ERL's debt/equity ratio and comply with financial covenants,
rather than provide ERL with new resources.
6.    ERL'.s depreciation of fixed assets was reduced in FY88 from an average of about
1OZ p.a. to about 7Z p.a. and, in FY90, the depreciation rates were further reduced to
an average of about 4Z.  This rate is low by international standards and may have
inflated ERL's results; at the same time, the reduced depreciation charges have partly
covered for the lack of adjustment of the processing fee (para 2 above). An average
depreciation rate of 102 was used for the appraisal projections.
7.    Up to FY88, ERL did not book the amortization, interest and exchange losses on
IDA credits in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan Agreements for 1357-BD and 1749-BD.
In FYs 89 and 90, on IDA's request, retroactive bookings were made; most interest and
exchange losses were capitalized. This procedure has caused distortions in ERL's
financial results.
8.    ERL's accounts  receivable,  e.g.  from BPC and its distribution companies,
increased dramatically during the project period and reached Tk 330 million in FY90
against SAR projections of Tk 36 million; the main reason was BPC's slow collection
from BIMAN and others. Although ERL's current ratio was satisfactory, its liquidity
was poor.



A VDESH EFFICIENCY AD  FD6Y RE4HABLITATION RnT
EASTON RFfFY LINITCD
DCmE STATMECTS
(In Hi II ion of TYaks)
FY EaWieg June 30:               1964                      199s             e19                    19687              ag                  19B9                199W
APRAISAL ACTIUL    APPRAISAL  ACRUIL   APPRAISAL ACTUAL   APRAISAL  ACAL.   APPRAISAL ACP.AL   APPPAISAL ACPJAl.   APRISAL  ACTUAL
Proceein9   oither f..            211.1   10.80        289.7  132.7       356.0  227.4        394.0  246.5        423.8  284.7       428.7  324.8        433.9  327.9
OPEATIDN COSTS
Repar* a Fnt.eae.e                    -                   -    1.8            -    3.4            -    2.6         16.9    3.3        17.9    4.5         19.0    4.8
Seleri.1;-4ee a bmeefit.s          34.0   22.40         36.6   26.3        39.1   35.4         41.5   40.6        44.0   45.4         46.6   50.8         49.4   57.0
Lnrsrc.                             3.2    2.30         5.6    2.6          6.4    2.9          6.1    3.6         5.4    3.4          4.7    4.9         4.0    6.6
Tdwmecal Service.                     -    0.10           -    0.2            -    0.6          4.6    0.1         4.9    0.2          5.2    0.1         5.5    0.1
Ow.rbeede                          16.7   14.30         18.0   16.0        19.3   19.6         20.4   18.1        21.6   18.9         22.9   20.6        24.3   25.3
qrecls;tlos                        29.1   29.70        62.5   33.0         64.5   44.7         67.4   35.2        67.4   46.5         67.4   36.2         67.4   37.4
Store. wpren a ceiceals           43.2   28.60        46.4   20.9         49.7   3b.7         62.2   46.1        63.9   41.0         69.9   37.8         74.1   46.3            w
Utilities                           6.3    6.30         6.7    4.4          ).2    4.5          9.0    4.3         9.5    5.0         10.1    5.7         10.7    6.6
others (a)                          2.1    6.80         2.3    9.0          2.4   53.6          3.1   68.0         3.3    U.3          3.5   6t.5         3.7  100.8
Total Oteratirn Cost.             134.6  110.50        168.1  122.2       186.6  196.7        214.3  218.6       238.9  234.0        246.2  247.1       258.1  286.8
Op.rstlsg Profit                   76.5   20.20        121.6   10.5       167.4   28.7        179.7   27.9        184.9   50.7       160.5   77.7        175.8   41.1
Le" Finnce hamrg."                 20.4   11.50        44.2   13.9         65.7   22.4         73.7   28.4        74.1   49.3         64.3   79.6        54.3   90.2
Work*.rprafit fart.            0.7    0.40          1.0    0.8          1.3    0.8         1.3    0.9          1.4    1.2         1.5    l.J          1.5      -
Add Olters ()                         -   13.50           -   18.3            -    9.3            -   18.4           -   22.6            -   32.5           -   49.3
Inco. before toans                 55.4   21.90       76.4   14.1        100.4   14.8        104.7   17.0       109.4   22.8        114.7   29.1       120.0    0.2
Le" Ircme tea                      28.1   10.00        36.7    7.          50.9    3.0         63.0      -        55.4       -        66.1   10.0        60.6       -
___-  -----                 -- -       -- --   -- -        -- --   -- -_--         -   - - -      - - -    - - ---_-          -- -
NEI DIC)E AFTE TAX                 27.3   11.90        37.7    7.0         49.5   11.8         51.7   17.0        54.0   22.8         56.6   19.1        59.2    0.2
RATIOS:                                                                                                                                                                      t
InCme Before Tan/                                                                                                                                                        0!9
Total Revenue. (6)            26.2    16.7         26.4   10.6        25.2    6.5         26.6    6.9        25.8    8.0         26.8    9.0         27.7      -
Net Inc. After loxes/                                                                                                                                                          I-
Op.ratin  Fixed Asete(S)           10.4     9.5         6.0    6.6          8.5    8.1         865    8.0         10.0    7.6         12.0    3.8        14.6      -
(a). Includes psyeenta to Bakhrabad Ca* Co. as frc. FY86.
(b). Inventory edjusteents. adjustments for prior years and interest and other non-operating inooe.



8ANCLADES - EflCY EfFIClCy AND REFINBtY REHABILITATION PlOJECT
EASTONt REFINFtY LIMITED
STATB8T OF SOUtCES AND APPLICATION OF FUDS
(In Million of Takes)
FY Ending June 30:                      1984             .  1985                  1986                1987                 1988                 1989                 1990
APPRAISAL  ACTUAL   APPRAISAL  AC1VAL   .0RAISAL  ACTLAL   APPRAISAL  ACTtAL   APPRAISAL  ACTUl.    APPtAISAL   ACTUAL   APPRALSAL  AC1tWL
Net Income Before Fin. Charges      47.7   23.40         81.9    20.9        115.2    34.2        125.4    45.4        128.1    72.1       12t; 9    98.7       113.5     90.4
Depreciation                        29.1   29.70         52.5    33.0         84.5    44.7        67.4    35.2         67.4    48.5         67.4    36.2         67.4     37.4
Other Internal Sources             114.1       -         31.2       -           -        -           -        -           -        -           -       -            -        -
Internal Cash Ceneration           190.9   58.10        165.6    53.9        179.7    78.9       192.8    80.6        195.6   10.6         188.3   134.9        180.9    17.8
Equity Contributions                   -       -            -       -           -        -           -        -           -   177.4            -      0.1           -    102.0
Increase in LT Debt                140.0    8.20       220.0    91.0         106.0   130.9        26.0   129.8            -   286.9            -   174.4            -     25.7
TOTAL SOURCI5                      330.9   61.30        385.6   144.9        285.7   209.8        218.8   210.4        195.5   584.9       188.3   309.4        180.9    285.5    g
Interest Paid                      20.4   11.50         44.2    13.9         65.7    22.4         73.7    28.4         74.2    49.3         64.3    79.6         54.3     90.2
Amortizetion                        11.2       -         11.0       -         11.0       -        11.0        -        72.5      2.9        72.6    63.2         72.5    116.5
Total Debt Service                  31.6   11.50         65.2    18.9         76.7    22.4        84.7    28.4        146.7    52.2        136.8   142.8        128.8    206.7
Change in Ficed Aeets              189.0   12.40        297.0   106.8        143.0   123.1        36.0   129.7            -   281.8            -    15.6            -     8Ei.8
Change in eorking capital           95.4   28.30            -    -9.2         19.0    58.1        19.5    34.6            -    84.7          2.1   114.0          2.6   -107.6
Change in In tere Deposite          14.9    1.70         33.4    31.8        47.0      0.0        78.6    10.2         48.8    13.8         49.4    10.0         51.5     52.2
Other Applications (a)                -    7.40            -      1.6           -      6.2           -      7.5           -   152.4            -    27.0            -     18.4
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                 330.9   61.30        385.6   144.9       285.7   209.8        218.8   210.4        195.5   584.9        188.3   309.4        180.9    255.5
Debt Service coverage                6.0     4.6         3.0      3.9         2.3      3.6         2.3      2.8         1.3      2.3         1.4     0.9          1.4      0.6
a. Conssets minly of dividonds, other appropriations and a Tk. 129 5 .llion write down of capital reserves
which was wede in connection with the FY88 capital increase.
The FY 90 capital increase conisted of the conversion of debt into equity.                                                                                                 ID
I-



- 70 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Comments to ERL's FYs 84-90 Financial Performance
1.    ERL's audited financial statements for FYs 84-90 have been restated to t.ne
appraisal format to facilitate comparison. However, the appraisal projections may not
be fully comparable with actual results due to unexpected events and (hanges in ERL's
accounting practices.  Some factors that have had a major impact on ERL's financ.al
performance and caused deviations from the appraisal projections are commented on
below.
2.    ERL's Processing Fee of Tk 32.5 per bbl. of crude oil and other remunerations rv
crude handling, utilities, etc. have not been adjusted since June 30, 1987, whi1e
inflation and Tk devaluations have substantially increased ERL's operating and capital
costs. However, the fall in real value of ERL's processing fee was partly compensated
for by increased throughput until 1989.
3.    As from FY86, ERL started to use natural gas from Bakhrabad Gas Co. as process
fuel replacing oil. In FY90, the cost of this gas was Tk 68.6 millions. The appraisal
projections assumed that ERL's costs for natural gas would be compensated for by a
'Bonus on Process Fuel Savings."   However, no bonus was introduced to adequately
compensate ERL for the cost of gas used as process fuel.
4.    ERL's throughput of crude oil increased up to FY89 but stagnated in FY90.  With
natural gas replacing fuel oil in Bangladesh, surplus fuel oil had to be exported at
depressed world market prices. GOB/BPC, therefore, decided to curtail ERL's refining
activities and import deficit products.   In 1992/93, ERL''  product slate will be
improved with assistance provided under 1749-BD and less fuel oil will be produced;
this will permit ERL to increase its throughput of crude oil again.
5.    ERL's capital was increased twice during project implementation:  in FY88, mainly
by using capital reserves, and in FY90, by conversion to equity of ADP debts to GOB.
This was done to improve ERL's debt/equity ratio and comply with financial covenants,
rather than provide ERL with new resources.
6.    ERL's depreciation of fixed assets was reduced in FY88 from an average of about
10% p.a. to about 72 p.a. and, in FY90, the depreciation rates were further reduced to
an average of about 4Z.  This rate is low by international standards and may have
inflated ERL's results; at the same time, the reduced depreciation charges have partly
covered for the lack of adjustment of the processing fee (para 2 above). An average
depreciation rate of 102 was used for the appraisal projections.
7.    Up to FY88, ERL did not book the amortization, interest and exchange losses on
IDA credits in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan Agreements for 1357-BD and 1749-BD.
In FYs 80 and 90, on IDA's request, retroactive bookings were made; most interest and
exchange losses were capitalized. This procedure has caused distortions in ERL's
financial results.
8.    ERL's  accounts  receivable,  e.g.  from BPC and its distribution companies,
increased dramatically during the project period and reached Tk 330 million in FY90
against SAR projections of Tk 36 million; the main reason was BPC's slow collection
from BIMAN and others. Although ERL's current ratio was satisfactory, its liquidity
was poor.



