Document ofe o 
The World Bankl
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3529-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 26.5 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 21, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka is fixed in relation to a basket of reference
currencies, with the US Dollar serving as intervention currency. On
January 11, 1983, the official exchange rate was set at Tk 24.48 buying
and Tk 24.52 selling per US Dollar. Throughout this report the rates
shown below have been used.
100 Paisa      = 1.0 Taka
US$1.0         = 23.0 Taka (as of
October 1, 1982)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AIND ACRONYYMS USED
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
ADP      -  Annual Development Plan
bbl      -  barrel
BMR      -  Balancing, Modernization and Rehabilitation
BOC      -  Burmah Oil Corporation (United Kingdom)
BPC      -  Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB     -  Bangladesh Power Development Board
bpsd     -  barrels per stream day
BR       -  Bangladesh Railways
BUET     -  Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
EHIU     -  Energy Monitoring Unit
ERD      -  External Resources Division, Ministry of Finance
ERL      -  Eastern Refinery Limited
ESPC     -  Energy Study and Planning Cell, Planning Commission
GOB      -  Government of Bangladesh
HYV      -  High Yielding Variety (of rice)
LPG      -  Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MCF      -  Thousand Cubic Feet
oe       -  oil equivalent
p.a.     -  per annum
REB      -  Rural Electricity Board
SFYP     -  Second Five Year Plan
toe      -  ton of oil equivalent
tpy      -  ton per year
USSR     -  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiaries:  Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL); Bangladesh Petroleum
Corporation (BPC); and Bangladesh University of Engineering
and Technology (BUET).
Amount:          SDR 26.5 million (US$28.5 million equivalent).
Terms:           Standard.
Relending
Terms:           GOB would onlend part (US$21.4 million) of the credit
proceeds to the Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL) for a period
of 12 years, including 4 years of grace, at an interest rate
of 14% per annum. ERL would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The portion of the credit (US$0.98 million) for the financing
of technical assistance to BPC will be passed on by GOB to
BPC as a grant. The balance of credit proceeds (US$6.12
million) will be retained by GOB to finance the energy
efficiency, gas-based feasibility studies, and the research
and development components.
Purpose and      The project would support GOB's efforts to:  (a) reduce the
Description:    level of petroleum imports; (b) initiate energy conservation
activities; and (c) carry out pre-investment studies as a
basis for exploiting the country's natural gas reserves. The
project would comprise: (a) equipment, materials and related
engineering services for the rehabilitation of the ERL refinery
facilities in Chittagong to increase capacity utilization and
a study to determine further modifications required to
improve the refinery's yield pattern; (b) technical assis-
tance to improve the accounting, financial and management
information systems (MIS) of BPC; (c) the development of an
energy conservation/diversification program to improve the
efficiency of energy use in the industrial sector; (d) feasi-
bility studies on gas-based export-oriented projects to lay
as a basis for exploiting the foreign exchange potential of
the country's natural gas; and (e) research and development
on possible uses of natural gas-derived methanol as a blend
in middle distillate petroleum products.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Project Risks:  The r,lain project risks are those deriving from the
integrated nature of the package of investments, technical
assistance, studies and institutin-buildling included
in the proposed project. The proposed project involves
everal institutions and a number of components. A key factor
for its success will be effective coordination. In this
regard, the appointment of a Project Implementation
Coordinator in ERL, an Energy Coordination Conservation Group and
energy coordinators in plants participating in the energy conservation
program should provide satisfactory safeguards. Nevertheless,
taking into accolnt the innovative feature of the energy efficiency
component and the weak institutional capacity of ERL
and BPC, a substantial effort in monitoring and supervision
on the part of IDA staff will be required and is planned for.
From a national standpoint, the proposed project entails limited
risks than most other projects in Bangladesh involving significant
capital outlays and expansion of productive capacity.



-iii-
Estimated
Project Costs 1/    Project Components                    Local   Foreign   Total
(TJS$ million equivalent)
I.   ERL Refinery Rehabilitation
A. Repairs, Maintenance and
Replacements                    5.0      10.4      15.4
B. Operating, Maintenance
and Management Technical
Assistance                      0.1       1.9       2c0
C. Training                          0.5       0.5       1.0
D. Debottlenecking and Secondary
Conversion Techno-Economic
Study                           0.4       4.2      4.6
Sub-total                6.0      17.0      23.0
II.  BPC Accounting and Management
Systems Technical Assistance
MIS Study                             0.1      0.5       0.6
Training                               -       0.1       0.1
0.1      0.6       0.7
III. Energy Efficiency
Energy Audits, Technical
Assistance and Training           0.3       1.7       2.0
IV.  Gas-Based Projects Feasibility
Studies                              0.2       2.1       2.3
V.   Research and Development
Program                               0.2      0.2       0.4
Base Cost Estimate                6.8      21.6      28.4
Physical Contingencies                0.7      2.4       3.1
Price Contingencies                   1.1      3.4       4.5
Total Project Cost                8.6      27.4      36.0
1/ Net of duties and taxes.



-iv-
Financing Plan:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
---(in IJS$ million)---
ERL                                   7.5       -        7.5
IDA                                   1.1     27.4      28.5
Total                              8.6      27.4      36.0
Estimated
Disbursement:         Fiscal Year            1984    1985    1986    1987
--------US$ million---------
Annual                 7.51    13.27    6.54    1.18
Cumulative            7.51    20.78   27.32   28.50
Economic Rate
of Return:            About 68% for the refinery rehabilitation component;
benefits for the other components are not quantifiable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Bangladesh:  Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation
Project, Report No. 4295-BD dated April 21, 1983.
Map:                  IBRD 16640.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR AN
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 26.5
million (the equivalent of US$28.5 million), on standard IDA terms, to
help finance an energy efficiency and refinery rehabilitation project.
GOB would onlend part (US$21.4 million) of the credit proceeds to the
Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL) for a period of 12 years, including 4 years
of grace, at an interest rate of 14% per annum. ERL would bear the for-
eign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic  Trends
and Medium-Term Development Issues." (Report No. 4277-BD, dated
March 4, 1983) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
Its economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the
struggle for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and
devastating floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing
production fell drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels
in the mid 1970s. Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population
growth, labor unrest and political instability added to the difficulties.
In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely
preoccupied with matters of relief and rehabilitation and the need to
shape a national government out of a provincial administration. The First
Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down
and refocussed three-year "Hardcore Program" (FY76-78) in response to the
enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of
development. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Public Administration (Train-
ing, Personnel and Management) Project (Report No. P-3493-BD), dated
March 24, 1983.



-2-
despite several setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufac-
turing rose by about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this
growth taking place outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in
domestic foodgrain supplies and increases in international petroleum
prices led to a deterioration in the balance of payments in FY80, the
concluding years of the decade witnessed a number of encouraging develop-
ments and positive policy measures to attain longer-term development
goals. These included a strengthening of budgetary policies, improvements
in agricultural and food distribution policies and steps to promote a more
active role by the private sector in developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation in the second half of the past decade
has been followed by a period of economic difficulties. Bangladesh
experienced serious budgetary and balance of payments problems in FY81
which continued into FY82. The external and domestic resource constraints
led to some decline in investment, in real terms, and some loss of momen-
tum in the development effort. The management of domestic food situation,
due to poor crops, has also posed considerable problems. Although GDP at
market prices increased by 6% in FY81 (as favorable weather and stepped-up
provision of agricultural inputs helped to increase foodgrain production
to a record 14.8 million tons), growth of the economy became negligible in
FY82 due to poor crops, lagging rural incomes and consumer demand and the
decline in investment. A recovery in winter crops (wheat and boro rice)
due to improved weather and the Government's efforts to expand minor
irrigation facilities, however, is expected to increase value-added in
agriculture by 3.4% and overall growth of the economy by 2.5% in FY83.
6.      The economic difficulties experienced in the last few years is
indicative of major constraints to sustained economic development in
Bangladesh in the near term. These are (a) a severe balance of payments
problem; (b) an extremely tight public finance situation; and (c) a food
production and management problem.
7.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid.  Export
earnings are currently less than 30% of the import bill and over 50% of
these limited export earnings is derived from raw jute and jute goods.
Although export earnings doubled over the second half of the past decade
due to a significant strengthening of export prices, and remittances from
abroad increased rapidly, the current account deficit over the past decade
averaged over 10% of GNP annually, financed by external aid inflows,
provided mainly on concessional terms by external donors. In FY82 and
FY83, however, Bangladesh was adversely affected by (a) a severe
deterioration in its terms of trade and (b) a simultaneous stagnation in
external aid inflows. A sharp decline in export prices of raw jute and
jute goods and of major non-traditional exports (notably leather and fish
products), combined with a 14% increase in average import prices (partly
reflecting significantly higher petroleum prices), led to a 16% deteriora-
tion in Bangladesh's terms of trade in FY81. While import prices remained



relatively stable in FY82, export prices declined by a further 16% due to
continued stagnation of demand for raw jute and jute goods, and the terms
of trade deteriorated further by 17% in FY82. At the same time external
aid inflows, which rose steadily until FY80, stagnated or declined; aid
disbursements in FY82 were only 4% higher than in FY79 in real terms, and
in FY81 were 7% lower than FY79 levels. During FY81 the Government
attempted to cope with this reduction in the availability of external
resources by resorting to short-term commercial borrowing, short-term
deposits from and currency swaps with friendly countries, some run-down of
reserves and assistance from the IMF under an Extended Financing Facility
(EFF) arrangement concluded in December 1980. However, the EFF arrangement
was suspended in July 1981, as the Government's budgetary problems led to
a large bank-financed budget deficit and to the violation of credit ceil-
ings agreed with the IMF. In FY82 the Government attempted to slow down
the growth of imports through a variety of measures. Nevertheless further
short-term borrowing of $226 million and a run-down of Bangladesh's meager
foreign exchange reserves to about US$100 million (equivalent to about two
weeks' imports) were necessary to finance the reduced level of imports.
8.      The balance of payments situation in FY83 will benefit from a
significant improvement in the terms of trade, a substantial increase in
workers' remittances to about US$600 million and a 9% increase in total
aid disbursements due to an improved response from donors to Bangladesh's
recent requests for more food and commodity aid. The Government has also
recently reached agreement with the IMF on a Standby Arrangement in an
amount of SDRs 68.4 million covering the second half of FY83. Rising
medium and long-term debt service payments (from US$98 million in FY82 to
US$155 million in FY83) will, however, claim part of this increase in
external reserves; Bangladesh will be also making net payments of about
$100 million on outstanding short-term debts.
9.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate had a major adverse
impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government's receipts of
local counterpart funds--a principal source of taka resources--were
reduced, as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes, which
account for nearly 60% of total tax revenues. These budgetary problems
were exacerbated by weak financia planning and inadequate domestic
adjustments in the face of generally reduced availability of resources.
The Government's development programs were predicated on the basis of
overly optimistic assumptions regarding resource availabilities; and the
poor financial performance of public enterprises, due to low levels of
efficiency and delays in increasing their sales prices added a further
drain on the budget. A budget deficit of Tk 5 billion or about 2.5% of
GNP emerged in FY81 even though the Annual Development Program (ADP) was
cutback by 12% in the second half of the fiscal year. In FY82, the cut-
backs in imports noted earlier sharply reduced government revenues; and
this caused serious difficulties in implementing the ADP which was again
initially set at ambitiously high levels. Although the Taka component of
the ADP was cutback by 15% in the third quarter of FY82, it was possible
to avoid a deficit in the overall government budget only because a sharp



- 4 -
run-down in government's food stocks as a result of poor domestic crops
helped to produce a substantial cash surplus on the food account.
10.     Although considerable progress has been made in the past ten years
in increasing the availability of irrigation and other inputs and improv-
ing agricultural policies, foodgrain production and supply in Bangladesh
remains heavily dependent on the vagaries of the weather. Prolonged
drought since the summer of 1981 adversely affected the FY82 and FY83 rice
crops. The shortfall in foodgrain production in FY82 (0.7 million tons or
5% below FY81 levels) led to high food prices in FY82, low government
procurements, increased demand for foodgrain distributed through the
ration system and a substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks
to about 600,000 tons by end-June 1982, far below the levels considered to
be sufficient for food security purposes. In order to replenish stocks
the Government made substantial commercial imports, thereby imposing
further strain on the balance of payments.
11.     The Government endeavored to cope with the intensifying problems
facing the economy by placing restrictions on imports, public sector
expenditures and bank credit, reducing various subsidies, and allowing the
Taka to depreciate. In FY82 the Taka was depreciated by about 10% in
relation to a basket of currencies to which it is pegged and by about 22%
in relation to the US dollar.l/ However, the rate of domestic inflation,
spurred on by sharp increases in foodgrain prices in mid FY82, the adjust-
ments in the exchange rate and rapid expansion of domestic liquidity in
late FY81 accelerated and the consumer price index increased by 15% over
the 12 month period ending June 1982.
12.     Faced with continuing prospects of unfavorable terms of trade and
stagnating resource availabilities, the Government, in the FY83 budget (in
July 1982), introduced a wide range of policy measures designed to adjust
the economy to the country's serious resource constraints. Projected
development expenditures for FY83 were reduced by nearly 20% in line with
resource availabilities, while the increase in recurrent expenditures was
limited to 14%, only slightly above the forecast inflation level. The
Government also introduced new tax measures expected to yield Tk 1.17
billion (about 0.5% of GDP) in FY83. In addition, a number of substantial
subsidy and pricing adjustments aimed at reducing consumption and protect-
ing investments were made. Ration prices of wheat and rice were increased
by 11% and 8%, respectively and fertilizer prices were increased by 14% on
average. The Government also recognized the need to improve the financial
performance of public sector enterprises and utilities; and product prices
and rates were raised substantially in the case of petroleum products
(41%), electricity tariffs (40%) and natural gas (13%). These measures
are expected to channel resources from private consumption to public
investment and, together with a cash surplus on the food account noted
1/ Change from end-June 1981 to early June 1982.



- 5 -
earlier, will help improve the overall budgetary position, and restore a
greater measure of financial stability.
External Debt
13.     Debt service payments on medium and long term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service
ratio, about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken
by various donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio
might exceed 20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies
are pursued and aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just under
US$3.6 billion as of June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD
loan accounting for 30% of the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted
for 3% of Bangladesh's total debt service payments: because assistance
is now entirely in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group
will rise slowly.
Development Planning and Policy Issnes
14.     The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), issued in draft form in May
1980, accords high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of
self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production
targeted to increase to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the
population growth rate with a view to bringing down the net reproduction
rate to unity by 1990; (iii) progress towards mass literacy through free
universal primary education; and (iv) emphasis on energy development,
particularly through accelerated exploitation of known reserves of natural
gas.
15.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is
considerable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial
expansion of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer
use and shifts to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has
formulated, with assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production
Plan (MTFPP) which provides an investment portfolio geared towards the
attainment of the SFYP target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. This
target is now being scaled down in view of the country's resource con-
straints. The achievement of even this revised target will depend con-
siderably on the allocation of sufficient resources to provide needed
inputs to farmers and to permit the private sector to play an expanded
role in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural implements and
inputs. Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of foreign aid
to finance imported inputs, improved extension services and training, and
appropriate producer incentives.
16.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have



- 6 -
been coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been
revised and are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now
preparing, with bank assistance, a medium-term implementation plan for the
population sector.
17.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The Government recognizes that achievement of the goal will
take longer than five years, but it has set itself the ambitious target of
introducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children
of primary-school age by 1985.  IDA has assisted GOB in preparing a
medium- term plan for the education sector.
18.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the
objectives of the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an
annual basis. The Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more
work and considerable discipline are needed to identify core programs and
projects and protect them to the extent possible in a situation of
resource scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to which
project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agen-
cies alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The
Government recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have
to be placed on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain
extent, activities such as education and rural development should be
carried out in a decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local
initiative and grass-roots participation.
19.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA,
GOB and other organizations has concluded that existing trade and
industrial policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations
within the industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program
for trade and industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a
medium-term program of actions to be pursued across a broad front, includ-
ing modifications in the tariff structure, the pattern of domestic
indirect taxation, investment incentives, export policies and the
mechanism for industrial promotion and planning.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactiva-
tion of eleven credits, amounting to US$147.11 million, made originally to
Pakistan before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan of US$54.9 million
and credit of US$31.04 million to cover liabilities arising from projects
located in Bangladesh and completed prior to independence was approved in
1974. As of September 30, 1982, 62 new credits have been approved, total-
ing US$2,064.67 million; of these, US$765 million have been for import



- 7 -
credits (ten imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits).
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as
of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On
June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three invest-
ments (for a shipbuilding company, an investment promotion company and a
leather factory) have been approved.
21.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agricul-
ture (20 of the projects approved as of September 30, 1982, and two fer-
tilizer imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and
the Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed
on projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fer-
tilizer transport, irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and
storage facilities. In addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is
also being placed upon complementary infrastructural projects in sectors
which facilitate agricultural development or which reduce bottlenecks
constraining the economy's overall performance. In the power sector, for
example, IDA is assisting in rural electrification and elimination of
shortages of generation capacity and distribution facilities which have
been a major impediment to utilization of existing industrial capacity.
Assistance for developing telecommunications is designed to improve the
efficiency of a wide-range of economic and social activities.
22.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from
two fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation
project, several DFC and small-scale industry projects and three IFC
loans.
23.     The enormity of Bangladesh-s population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made -two credits available in support of GOB's popula-
tion program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this
field has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and
primary education.
24.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satis-
factorily.  Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these
delays were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified
staff, overcentralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational
deficiencies. IDA and GOB have given increased attention to regular
monitoring and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential
problems. IDA is providing assistance both under specific projects and
under technical assistance credits to improve planning, project prepara-
tion and implementation capabilities.



- 8 -
25.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Situation
26.     Bangladesh has no known oil reserves, no economically exploitable
coal, very limited hydropower potential and a dwindling base of biomass
fuels.  Total per capita energy consumption, estimated in the range of 100
to 130 kilograms (kg) of oil equivalent (oe) per annum (p.a.) is among the
lowest in the world. Less than a third (about 31 kg per capita) of the
total consumption is derived from commercial fuels, of which some 52% is
supplied from imported petroleum, 40% from indigenous natural gas, 6% from
imported coal, and 2% from hydroelectricity. Despite these low levels of
energy consumption, Bangladesh is faced with escalating claims of imported
energy on its limited export earnings. Bangladesh's oil import bill,
which averaged around 30% of export earnings in FY77-79, is estimated to
have reached US$543 million, or about 87% of export earnings in FY82. As
regards biomass fuels, the forestry base is severely limited while impor-
tant sources such as agricultural wastes are rapidly declining due to the
progressive shift from traditional varieties to high yielding variety of
rice which have less straw material. At the same time, per capita
availability of cow dung, also an important source of fuel in the rural
areas, is declining.
Commercial Energy Consumption
27.     Commercial energy consumption in Bangladesh grew at an average
annual rate of 5.5% between FY76 and FY79 and 8% between FY79 and FY81.
This increase was initially due to a 20% annual increase in gas utiliza-
tion between FY79 and FY81. However, the historical consumption does not
reflect the real energy demand in the country, since the consumption
levels have been constrained by availability of foreign exchange for
imported energy and, in the case of natural gas and hydroelectricity, by
uncertainties surrounding the timing of the required investment and
associated delivery systems.
28.     In FY81, industry and power accounted for about 60% of total
commercial energy consumption. In particular, the industrial sector
accounted for 50% of total natural gas consumption, 77% of coal, and 21%
of petroleum fuels. Power generation accounted for 36% of total natural
gas consumption, and 16% of petroleum fuels consumption. Residential
energy accounted for about 18% of total energy and 27% of petroleum fuel
consumption; residential petroleum fuel consumption is mostly in the form
of kerosene which is used for lighting purposes in non-electrified
households. Transportation accounted for 16% of commercial energy, mainly



- 9 -
diesel fuel which is used in road and rail transportation and in river
crafts.
Projected Commercial Energy Consumption
29.     Between FY81-85, overall commercial energy consumption is
projected to grow at an average annual rate of 6.4%. Substantial changes
in the composition of supply are expected over this period and throughout
the 1980s, due to the expected increased availability of natural gas on
completion of the Bakhrabad Gas Development Project financed with assis-
tance from the OPEC Fund, the Japanese OECF and IDA (Credit 1091-BD).
Virtually all of the projected increase in the demand is expected to be
met by natural gas, consumption of which is expected to grow at about 17%
p.a. Petroleum fuel consumption, which is gradually being displaced by
natural gas in power generation and in industries in the Chittagong area,
is projected to grow at an average annual rate of 2.3%, compared to a
historical growth (FY76-81) of 5.9%. As a result, while natural gas will
increase its share of commercial energy supply from 40% in FY81 to around
58% in FY85, petroleum fuel's share is expected to decline from 52% to
around 45% over the same period. However, as in most developing
countries, the consumption pattern in Bangladesh for petroleum will con-
tinue to be skewed in favor of middle distillates (kerosene and diesel
oil) and require measures to be taken to provide the country's petroleum
refinery at Chittagong with secondary processing facilities which would
enable the fuel oil displaced by natural gas to be converted into middle
distillates.
Domestic Commercial Energy Resources
30.     Natural Gas:  Bangladesh is well-endowed with natural gas.  So
far, eleven gas fields onshore and one gas field offshore have been dis-
covered, all in the eastern part of the country. Gas in place at the 12
fields is estimated at about 12.3 to 13.4 trillion cubic feet (about
280-310 million toe), 1/ of which about 75% should be recoverable through
normal production methods.  At present, only the Titas gas field is being
exploited to any significant extent to supply Dhaka, Ashuganj and
Ghorasal, and six other towns. The Bakhrabad Gas Development Project, due
to be completed in the current year, will link Chittagong, Bangladesh's
main commercial and port city, with the newly-developed Bakhrabad gas
field through a 24" high pressure pipeline. Cumulative production of gas
up to FY81 is estimated at about 0.35 trillion cubic feet. Based on the
projected consumption up to FY85 (paragraph 29 above), an optimistic
consumption growth rate of 15% p.a. thereafter, and a recovery rate of 75%
of the gas in place, the reserves are estimated to last for about 33
years, even if no new deposits are found. Given the size of its existing
deposits, Bangladesh should initiate action to exploit the potential of
1/ tons of oil equivalent.



- 10 -
its natural gas as a feedstock for use in the manufacturing of economi-
cally viable and exportable products, to meet growing energy demand and as
a substitute for more costly imported fuel (paragraph 33). Because of the
relatively long gestation period of such projects, it is important to
initiate as a matter of urgency the necessary feasibility studies and
preparatory work and develop an appropriate investment program. The
proposed project would support these efforts through the provision of
specialized consultancy services to assist in carrying out preparatory
studies aimed at identifying the potential of natural gas/natural gas
liquids use for either direct export or for export-oriented chemical
product industries.
31.     Coal:  Coal deposits, estimated at around 700 million tons, exist
in the northwestern part of the country. However, the deposits are
located underneath water-bearing alluvial strata and at depths which pose
difficult and costly production problems, thereby inhibiting their
development. There are also some peat deposits in the Faridpur and Khulna
districts; however, the individual deposits are small and lie under prime
agricultural land, making their mining neither practical nor economic.
32.     Hydroelectricity:  In spite of the very large river systems (Gan-
ges and Brahmaputra) running through the country, Bangladesh's hydroelec-
tricity potential is rather modest because of the flat deltaic terrain.
At present, 80 MW of capacity is being harnessed at Kaptai, in the
southeastern part of the country. A 50 MW unit is expected to be commis-
sioned later this year and two additional 50 MW units are planned for
1987, bringing the total capacity at Kaptai to around 230 MW. No further
conventional sites appear economically justifiable in view of the lower
production costs of alternative generating facilities based on natural
gas.
Scope for Energy Substitution and Conservation
33.     Despite Bangladesh's low level of commercial energy consumption
(about 31 kg of oe 1/) per capita, the scope for improving the efficiency
of commercial energy use and for substituting imported petroleum fuels
with domestic natural gas is substantial, particularly in the industrial
and power sectors where the bulk of consumption is concentrated in a
relatively small number of facilities. The petroleum refinery, and pulp
and paper and steel producers are the largest consumers of petroleum fuel
(mostly fuel oil) in industry, accounting for 17%, 31%, and 16% respec-
tively, while the fertilizer industry is the largest consumer of natural
gas (both as a feedstock and fuel), accounting for 73% of total natural
gas usage in industry. Other significant consumers of commercial energy
in the industrial sector include the jute and textiles industries, and the
tea estates. The three main categories which offer the best potential
1/ Comparative levels for Burma and India are 48 kg and 151 kg oe,
respectively.



- 11 -
for fuel substitution and/or energy savings (i.e., substitution and con-
servation) in the industrial sector are: (i) facilities ir and around the
Chittagong area currently using fuel oil that will have access to natural
gas when the Bakhrabad-Chittagong gas pipeline is completed in the current
year; (ii) facilities in and around Dhaka and Sylhet currently using gas
where energy conservation investments would be attractive; and (iii)
facilities such as the Khulna newsprint plant in the western part of the
country where natural gas is not expected to be available for the time
being and will thus continue to use fuel oil for some time. Total potenr
tial annual savings of energy in the industrial sector are estimated at
239,500 toe; the total potential foreign exchange savings are estimated at
around US$35 million annually at March 1983 FOB (Chittagong) fuel oil
prices. To initiate the institutional structure to carry out the necessary
activities for energy conservation, the Government has recently created an
Energy Monitoring Unit (EMU) in the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resour-
ces. The proposed project will provide assistance to strengthen the EMU
to carry out energy audits to provide the basis for capturing the potenr-
tial energy savings.
Sector Organization
34.     The responsibility for formulating energy policies and programs in
Bangladesh is dispersed over numerous agencies. The Bangladesh Oil and
Gas Corporation (Petrobangla), established in 1974, is responsible for
exploration, production, transmission and distribution of natural gas,
while the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) is responsible for
imports of crude oil and refined products, and for the refining and
marketing of petroleum products. Both corporations are under the supervi-
sion of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, and act as holding
companies within each subsector for various subsidiaries functioning under
their respective supervision and control. The Bangladesh Power Develop-
ment Board (BPDB) is responsible for generation, transmission, and dis-
tribution of electric power, while rural electrification is the respon-
sibility of the Rural Electrification Board (REB). Non-commercial fuels
come under the responsibilities of various government agencies, including
the Ministries of Agriculture, and of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives.
35.     During the preparation of its draft Second Five Year Plan (SFYP)
in FY81, the Government (GOB) realized the need for integrating its energy
planning and policy-making processes. Accordingly, GOB has since taken
steps to centralize energy planning by establishing an Energy Study and
Planning Cell (ESPC) in the Planning Commission with assistance made
available under a UNDP-ADB financed project.
Petroleum Refining Stib-Sector Operations
36.     At present, Bangladesh-s petroleum fuels requirements are met
entirely through imports. Petroleum products are obtained from four
different sources: (i) domestic refining of imported crude oil in the
Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL) facilities at Chittagong; (ii) processing



- 12 -
of purchased crude oil in Singapore refineries under contractual arrange-
ments; (iii) purchases of petroleum products from spot markets; and
(iv) barter trade for petroleum products with the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics (USSR).
37.     Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation:  BPC is a wholly state-owned
corporation established in December 1976 to take over Goverment shares in
petroleum companies operating in Bangladesh. Except for planning and
controlling activities and the responsibility for off-shore processing
of purchased crude and disposal of surplus products from refining opera-
tions, BPC performs its functions through its subsidiaries.
38.     Management responsibility in BPC is vested in a Govern-
ment-appointed Board of Directors which consists of a Chairman and five
members. Two of the directors--the Joint Secretary of the Ministry of
Energy and Mineral Resources and the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance
and Planning --are ex-officio. BPC has a staff of 208 comprising: 107 in
the secretariat (administration), 29 in operations (commercial, distribu-
tion and marketing), 18 in planning and training and 54 in finance.
39.     Eastern Refinery Limited (ERL):  Currently, about 60% of
Bangladesh's petroleum requirements are processed at the ERL refinery in
Chittagong. ERL was established in 1966 as a fully-integrated refinery
responsible for crude oil procurement and processing, and sale of the
refined products. It was originally owned 70% by the Pakistan Industrial
Credit and Investment Corporation and 30% by French interests. In 1968,
the 30% French interests were purchased by the Burmah Oil Corporation
(BOC) of the United Kingdom. Following Bangladesh's independence in 1971,
the 70% Pakistani interests were taken over by GOB. GOB's interests were
subsequently transferred to BPC in 1976. BOC continues to hold 30% of
ERL's equity. The refinery, which has a throughput of 34,000 barrels per
stream day (bpsd), or 1.6 million tons per year (tpy), was commissioned in
1968. Since 1979, procurement of crude and sale of the refined products
have been transferred to BPC, leaving ERL as a processing refinery only.
ERL's revenues from that time have been derived from the fee on crude
processed for BPC, and also since FY82, from the operating management fee
paid by BPC in respect of a 70,000 tpy bitumen plant it operates on behalf
of BPC.
40.     Petroleum Product Marketing and Distribution:  The distribution
and marketing of petroleum products is undertaken by three subsidiary
marketing companies of BPC: Burmah Eastern Company, Jammunah Oil Company
and Meghna Petroleum Company. The major share of the market (40%) is held
by Burmah Eastern; Jammunah Oil has 32%; while Meghna Petroleum controls
28%. Facilities for product distribution throughout the country are
reasonably adequate. In addition to the above distributing companies,
two special products companies, the Eastern Lubricants Blenders Limited
and the Standard Asiatic Company, also subsidiaries of BPC, are engaged in
the blending and marketing of lubricants and special products.



- 13 -
IDA's Role in the Energy Sector
41.     IDA has to date assisted GOB in the financing of four projects in
the energy sector. Credit 934-BD in an amount of US$28.0 million equiv-
alent was approved in June, 1979 to assist in extending the power dis-
tribution network in the Greater Khulna area. A second project,
Credit 1091-BD (Bakhrabad Gas Development Project) in an amount of US$85.0
million equivalent, to assist in the development of the Bakhrabad gas
field and construction of a 110-mile 24-inch pipeline to transmit gas from
Bakhrabad to Chittagong, was approved in December 1980. In addition, the
Association made two subsequent Credits in FY82, amounting to US$132.0
million, to assist in financing the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit
1254-BD) and the Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD).
42.     The main objectives of IDA-s assistance in the sector are to
support: (i) expanded production, distribution and use of natural gas,
particularly for power generation and in industry, to meet growing energy
demand and as a substitute for more costly imported fuels; (ii) major
improvements in domestic oil refinery facilities; (iii) more efficient use
of energy through improved energy conservation measures; and (iv)
increases in energy prices to economically efficient levels, particularly
for electricity, petroleum fuels and gas; (iv) studies to develop
gas-based export-oriented industries; and (v) promotion of further gas/oil
exploration through further seismic work. IDA's role in the energy sector
is being closely coordinated with those of other donors that are active in
the sector. As a follow-up to an energy assessment study carried out in
collaboration with the UNDP/ADB in 1981, IDA has been assisting GOB in
recent months in the formulation of priority energy investment program for
FY83-85. This will complement a longer term energy plan being prepared
with technical assistance from the Asian Development Bank.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.     The design of the proposed project is based on the findings and
recommendations of the joint IDA/UNDP/ADB energy assessment study carried
out in October 1981 (paragraph 42). The proposed project was prepared by
the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources with the assistance of con-
sultants and IDA staff and appraised by an IDA mission that visited
Bangladesh in May and October, 1982. A report entitled "Bangladesh --
Staff Appraisal Report -- Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation
Project" No. 4295-BD, dated April 21, 1983, is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1983. The GOB
delegation was led by Mr. Shafiul Alam, Additional Secretary, External
Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. A Supplemen-
tary Project Data sheet is attached as Annex III.



- 14 -
Project Objectives and Description
44.     The proposed project would assist GOB in its efforts to:
(a) reduce the burden of imported petroleum on Bangladesh's balance of
payments through improving the operational efficiency of the oil refinery
and initiating a program of energy conservation activities; and (b) carry
out pre-investment work as a basis for exploiting the foreign exchange
earning potential of the country's substantial natural gas reserves. The
proposed project would be implemented over a four-year period
(1983/84-1986/87) and would include:
(i)  Refinery Rehabilitation Component
(a) the supply of equipment, materials and engineering
services to rehabilitate the refinery, increase capacity
utilization, improve the efficiency of its operations and
reduce its energy consumption; (b) a techno-economic
study to determine further modifications required to ensure
that the refinery's yield pattern is kept in balance with the
changing long-term demand profile for petroleum fuels in the
country; (c) training; and (d) operating and maintenance
technical assistance.
(ii)  BPC Techtical Assistance Component
technical assistance to improve the accounting, financial and
management information systems of the Bangladesh Petroleum
Corporation (BPC), the parent company of ERL; and overseas
training of up to eight senior and middle management staff;
(iii) Energy Conservation Component
technical assistance to identify and prepare programs to improve
the efficiency of energy use in the industrial sector;
(iv)  Gas-Based Projects Feasibility Studies Component
studies on gas-based export-oriented investments; and
(v)  Methonal Research and Development Component
research and development studies on the possibilities of using
natural gas-derived methanol as an extender of middle distillate
petroleum products and for other non-conventional applications.
The Refinery Rehabilitation Component
45.     ERL's facilities are in an acute state of disrepair due to a
run-down in preventive maintenance over several years, the cumulative
effect of which has been that the refinery is operating at no more than



- 15 -
82% of design capability while its yield pattern is considerably less than
optimum. The existing processing configuration does not include any
secondary conversion facilities and therefore does not provide flexibility
to adust the yield to meet the changiag demand profile for petroleum
products. For example, the refinery at present produces a surplus of
gasoline, naphtha and fuel oil which have to be exported at depressed
prices, while substantial amounts of kerosene and diesel oil have to be
imported. In addition, the refinery is inefficient in its consumption of
energy. The project would provide for the equipment, materials and
related engineering services to carry out repair, replacement and main-
tenance of tanks, furnaces, vessels, pumps, compressors, pipes, etc., to
restore the refinery's mechanical integrity and increase capacity utiliza-
tion by about 15%, reduce refinery fuel consumption and losses, and sub-
stitute natural gas for about 36,000 tons of petroleum used by the
refinery as processing fuel.
46.     The refinery rehabilitation component also includes 138 man-months
of consultants services to assist ERL in project implementation, operation
and maintenance of the refinery throughout the project implementation
period. To improve its longer-term maintenance performance, ERL would
submit to IDA by December 31, 1984 for its review and thereafter, imple-
ment a five-year maintenance plan (Section 3.04(a)(iii) of the Project
Agreement). The project would also provide 320 manr-months of consultants
services, including an estimated 295 man-months of specialized consult-
ants, to carry out a study to debottleneck the refinery and determine the
appropriate secondary conversion capacity required to remove the imbalance
between the refinery yield pattern and the country's long-term demand
profile for petroleum products. The study is divided into two phases, the
first phase covering the techno-economic analysis of the various options
for secondary conversion and the second phase covering the basic engineer-
ing and tender documents preparation of the option selected. ERL would
submit to IDA, GOB and BPC, no later than November 30, 1983, the results
of the first phase as well as the recommendations of GOB and BPC (Sec-
tion 3.04(a)(i) of Project Agreement). The refinery component also covers
training, including 36 man-months of the services of a training manager to
upgrade the skills of existing refinery staff and train new staff. As a
condition of credit effectiveness, GOB would cause ERL to appoint a train-
ing specialist to assist in the design and implementation of a training
program (Section 6.01(c) of the DCA). ERL would, by December 31, 1983,
submit for the Association's review and implement thereafter its training
program, taking into account the Association's comments (Sec-
tion 3.04(a)(ii) of the Project Agreement). To ensure that staff trained
under the proposed project are discouraged from leaving prematurely, ERL
would cause the employees participating in the training program to provide
assurances of continued employment with ERL for not less than five years
or in case of non-compliance to compensate ERL by paying the training
costs incurred by ERL (Section 3.04(b) of the Project Agreement).



- 16 -
BPC Technical Assistance Component
47.     BPC's existing accounting and management information systems are
inadequate for effective decision-making. The last set of BPC's financial
statements examined by independent auditors is that for FY79. The delays
in having its accounts audited reflect the existing weaknesses of BPC's
accounting and management information base which need to be addressed.
The proposed project would provide (i) 45 man-months of consultant serv-
ices to review, in association with BPC-s external auditors, the existing
accounting, control and management information systems of BPC and design
an improved system; and (ii) training abroad of up to eight BPC senior and
middle level management staff in petroleum accounting, planning and
management information systems.  GOB would, no later than June 30, 1984,
cause BPC to submit the results and recommendations of the accounting and
management study for review by the Association and implement its recommen-
dations thereafter, taking into account the comments of the Association
(Section 3.06 of the DCA).
Energy Conservation Component
48.     The above component would finance (i) 110 marr-months of consultant
services to assist the newly-created Energy Monitoring Unit (EMU) to
prepare a national energy conservation program as part of GOB's efforts to
address the long-term issues of energy demand management; (ii) oversees
training of EMU's staff; (iii) development of a library of relevant tech-
nical literature on industrial energy conservation; and (iv) mobile energy
measuring equipment for use by EMU staff. About 85 man-months of the
consultant services would be utilized to carry out energy audits in up to
40 medium to large energy-using enterprises (i.e., enterprises consuming
more than 1,000 tons of oil p.a. or 2,500 toe p.a. of natural gas). The
remaining man-months will be used in assisting the EMU to organize its
internal procedures and in launching the industrial energy conservation
program. It is the intention of GOB to package the results of the energy
audits into an industrial energy conservation project for possible donor
assistance at a later stage.
Gas-based Project Feasibility Studies
49.     This component would finance 140 manr-months of specialized con-
sultant services to carry out a study (a) to identify potential uses of
natural gas either for direct export or for chemical product industries
for export markets (e.g., gas exports to India, methanol and methanol
derivatives, and ammonia-urea fertilizer); (b) assess the investment
needed for such projects and evaluate their economic benefits; (c) formu-
late a priority investment program based on economic benefits; and
(d) recommend an incentive structure for attracting foreign private capi-
tal participation into such investments. Phase II of the studies, also
covered under the component, will focus on detailed feasibility studies of
economically-attractive projects emerging out of the Phase I.



- 17 -
Methanol Research and Development Component
50.     An export-oriented methanol project, based on natural gas, and
sponsored by the Davy McKee Corporation of the United Kingdom and a
private Bangladeshi investor is currently under consideration by GOB. In
addition, GOB is also keen on exploring the possibilities of methanol use,
in Bangladesh, as an extender of middle distillates and in other non-
conventional applications. Preliminary work in this area has already been
carried out at the Chemical Engineering Department of the Bangladesh
University of Engineering and Technology (BUET). The research and
development component of the proposed project would support a program to
continue the above research work over a three-year period. The work to be
carried out would include studies of methanol as a blended fuel, the
appropriate levels of blend, properties for safe handling, toxicity levels
and the potential for methanol use as a domestic and/or industrial fuel.
Project Implementation
51.     Implementation of the refinery rehabilitation component is
expected to be completed by March 1986; the technical assistance program
to improve BPC's accounting and management information system is expected
to be initiated by September 1983 for completion by March 1985; the energy
conservation component is expected to begin in March 1984 and scheduled
for completion by September 1985. The detailed feasibility studies of
gas-based export-oriented projects would be executed over a 28-month
period starting in June 1983; the research and development on methanol use
would support on-going research efforts by BUET.
52.     ERL will be responsible for the implementation of the refinery
rehabilitation component with assistance from local contractors and vendor
technicians to install equipment. Implementation of the rehabilitation
program is designed to ensure that the refinery can continue to operate
during repair/maintenance work; activities requiring a shutdown of the
refinery will be scheduled for the 1983 and 1984 planned maintenance
shutdown periods. As a condition of credit effectiveness, GOB would cause
ERL to appoint a Project Implementation Coordinator with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Association, to be responsible for the
procurement and supervision of the necessary repairs, maintenance and
replacement under the project (Section 6.01(c) of the DCA). The BPC
accounting and management information systems improvement study would be
carried out under the supervision of BPC-s Finance Director. The energy
efficiency component would be implemented by the EMU. GOB has already
established EMU and would appoint its Managing Director as a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the DCA). It will be a condition
of disbursement for the portion of the Credit allocated to the energy
efficiency component that GOB has: (a) adequately staffed the EMU with
persons whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the
Association; and (b) established an Energy Conservation Coordination Group
with membership, functions and powers, satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.07(a)(i) and (ii) and Schedule I, paragraph 4(b) of the DCA).



- 18 -
GOB also would cause each of the concerned public sector corporations and
major energy-consuming industries to be assisted under the energy
efficiency component, to designate an energy coordinator at the corporate
level and an energy manager for each plant, to be responsible for their
respective units- energy conservation/diversification activities (Section
3.07(b) of the DCA). The gas-based projects feasibility studies would be
carried out by the Chemical Industries Section of the Planning Division of
the Ministry of Finance and Planning with the assistance of consultants.
GOB would submit the results of Phase I of the gas-based projects
feasibility studies for the Association's review and comments before
commencing any detailed feasibility study under Phase II (Section 3.05 of
the DCA). The Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET)
would carry out its research program on methanol in collaboration with an
experienced foreign research institution. It will be a condition of
disbursement for the portion of the proposed Credit allocated to the
research and development component that BUET has made arrangements, satis-
factory to the Association, for collaboration with an experienced foreign
research institution to assure itself of peer review of its work (Section
3.08 (a) and (b) and Schedule I, paragraph 4(c) of the DCA).
Monitoring and Reporting
53.     Each of the above executing agencies (ERL, BPC, EMU, Planning
Division of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, and BUET) will be
required to keep separate records and accounts on their respective com-
ponents. GOB would cause the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources to
prepare quarterly progress reports covering all aspects of the proposed
project, based on a review of the activities under each component, for
submission to and exchange of views with the Association (Section 3.04(c)
of the DCA).
Project Costs and Financing
54.     Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies,
are estimated at US$36.0 million equivalent, net of duties and taxes, of
which US$27.4 million equivalent is in foreign exchange. Physical contin-
gencies were calculated at 10% of base cost estimate for the refinery
rehabilitation component and 15% for all the other components. Price
contingencies were calculated on the basis of expected increases in inter-
national prices, in dollar terms, of 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985
and 6% in 1986. These rates were applied on both foreign and local costs,
on the assumption that the difference between international and domestic
inflation rates will be accounted for in the foreign exchange rate adjust-
ments undertaken by GOB periodically. Costs of consultants have been
estimated at US$14,000 per man-month, on average, in foreign exchange to
cover salaries, overhead, fixed fees and international travel expenses;
and at US$1,800 per man-month in local currency to cover living allowan-
ces, support staff and other local expenditures.
55.     The proposed IDA credit of SDR 26.5 million (US$28.5 million
equivalent) would finance 100% of the foreign exchange cost plus 13% of



- 19 -
local costs or 79% of total project costs. ER1 would finance the balance
of local costs. To ensure prompt provision of budgetary funds and the
hiring of project staff, approval of the Project Proforma 1/ by the Bor-
rower would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the
DCA).
On-lending Terms
56.     GOB would onlend US$21.4 million of the proposed credit to ERL at
an interest rate of 14% per annum. The repayment period would be 12
years, including 4 years of grace. ERL would bear the foreign exchange
risk. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and ERL,
satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit (Section 6.01(a) of the DCA). The portion (US$6.12
million) of the proposed Credit to be used for the energy conservation,
the gas-based projects feasibility studies and the research and develop-
ment components would be retained by GOB for those components. The por-
tion (US$0.98 million) of the proposed credit allocated for the BPC tech-
nical assistance component will be passed on as a grant.
Procurement
57.     Equipment financed under the IDA credit will be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines
except for (i) up to US$2.2 million in equipment proprietary to process
design or requiring compatibility with existing units which will be
procured from single source by negotiation; and (ii) up to US$1.7 million
for items costing less than US$80,000 which will be procured through
limited international bidding, on the basis of at least three price quota-
tions from suppliers outside Bangladesh. Consultants services will be
hired in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Disbursements
58.     Disbursements will cover (i) 100% of the foreign costs and 100% of
local ex factory costs of equipment for repairs, maintenance and replace-
ment; and (ii) 100% of the foreign costs of overseas training; and (iii)
100% of the costs of technical assistance/consultants services for super-
vision and various studies. All withdrawal applications will be fully
documented.
59.     The estimated disbursements of the IDA credit take into account
the Bank Group's experience on projects reflecting the characteristics of
the individual components and disbursement experience in Bangladesh, in
particular. The proposed Credit is expected to be completely disbursed by
the first quarter of calendar 1987.
1/ An internal GOB document, the approval of which is a prerequisite for
the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



- 20 -
ERL's Finances
60.     ERL's financial performance has been generally satisfactory except
for the debt/equity ratio which stood at 72:25 as of June 30, 1982.
Nearly 60% of ERL's long-term outstanding debt relates to debts (amounting
to about US$5.4 million at the current exchange rate) contracted before
the creation of Bangladesh and whose servicing were frozen by GOB after
1971. The bulk of this debt (around $4.1 million equivalent) is due to
ENSA (France) for the construction of the refinery. A major factor
accounting for the delay in reaching a satisfactory resolution of this
issue is that GOB has still to agree on the appropriate agency that will
be liable for payment of the debt, since ERL is no longer an integrated
refinery and does not have any earning potential from the substantial
added value of the refined products. GOB would, no later than June 30,
1984, provide an appropriate disposition of ERL's long-term debt incurred
before November 1971 in a manner that will not adversely affect the finan-
cial situation of ERL (Section 4.03 of the DCA).
61.     The rehabilitation of the refinery will have a positive effect
on ERL-s financial situation. Net income after taxes is estimated to
increase from Taka 27.3 million in FY84 to Taka 51.7 million in FY87,
while internal cash generation is projected to increase from Taka 77
million to Taka 194.7 million over the same period. The financial rate of
return in real terms on the rehabilitation component is calculated at 17%.
62.     GOB would cause ERL to follow prudent financial practices in its
operations and meet the following requirements: (i) maintain a
debt/equity ratio of no greater than 65:35 after FY87; (ii) maintain a
current ratio of at least 1.5:1; (iii) not to incur any additional debt
during the project implementation period and thereafter in any fiscal
year, if by so doing the projected debt service coverage will fall below
1.5; and (iv) not make any investments in fixed assets (other than the
refinery rehabilitation component under the proposed project and for
maintenance purposes) during the project implementation period in excess
of US$5.0 million equivalent, without the prior approval of the Associa-
tion (Section 4.03(a)(i)-(v) of the Project Agreement). ERL would insure
its refinery facilities against such risks and in such amounts, satisfac-
tory to the Association (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
Audit Reqtirements
63.     GOB would cause BPC to forward its audited financial statements
for FY80, FY81 and FY82 to the Association for its review, no later than
December 31, 1983 (Section 4.01(d) of the DCA). Thereafter, GOB would
cause BPC and ERL to have their accounts and financial statements audited
annually by external auditors, satisfactory to the Association, and for-
ward such audited statements to the Association for its review, no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01(c) of the
DCA and Section 4.02(a), (b), and (c) of the Project Agreement).



- 21 -
Petroleum Product Prices
64.     GOB's pricing policy with regard to petroleum products is based on
the principle of periodic adjustments to recover increases in procurement,
processing and distribution costs. The most recent adjustment was on
July 1, 1982, when prices were increased by 41% on a weighted average
basis. The current ex-refinery price levels are at or above import parity
equivalent prices. Retail prices are also satisfactory. While the
Government is committed to the principle of periodic price adjustments to
recover the full cost of petroleum products, delays in the implementation
of this pricing policy have been evident in the past. GOB would review
and make adjustments, at least once each year, to the ex-refinery and
retail prices of petroleum products to such extent as may be required to
ensure that sufficient revenues are generated by BPC in each fiscal year
to cover the full cost of the petroleum procurement, processing and han-
dling (Section 4.02 of the DCA).
Project Benefits and Justification
65.     The quantifiable benefits from the proposed project relate
primarily to the refinery rehabilitation component and are two-fold:
(a) additional production of about 267,000 tons per year of refined
petroleum products which would otherwise have had to be imported; and
(b) replacement of about 36,000 tons per year of imported fuel oil by
domestic natural gas in refinery processing operations. These benefits
are expected to result in an annual reduction of Bangladesh-s oil import
bill ranging from about US$19 million in FY86 to US$26 million by 1995.
The economic rate of return for the refinery rehabilitation component is
estimated at around 68%. The economic analysis took into account only the
refinery rehabilitation investments, the associated incremental operating
costs after rehabilitation and the incremental benefits from increased
yields and energy savings. In addition to these benefits, the proposed
project would assist in improving the management and operations of BPC.
Additional benefits that are expected to accrue from proposed project
components are as follows: the techno-economic study is expected to result
in a modification of ERL-s refinery and further reduce the cost of
imported petroleum to Bangladesh; the energy audits which are expected to
lead to an energy conservation project the economic benefits of which are
expected to be high; and the gas-based projects feasibility studies which
are expected to identify areas through which Bangladesh could exploit the
foreign exchange potential of its abundant natural gas resources.
Risks
66.     The main project risks are those deriving from the integrated
nature of the package of investments, technical assistance,
studies and institution- building included in the proposed project. The
proposed project involves several institutions and a number of components.
A key factor for its success will be effective coordination. In this
regard, the appointment of a Project Implementation Coordinator in ERL, an
Energy Coordination Conservation Group and energy coordinators in plants



- 22 -
participating in the energy conservation program (paragraph 52) should
provide satisfactory safeguards. Nevertheless, taking into account the
innovative feature of the energy efficiency component and the weak
institutional capacity of ERL and BPC, a substantial effort in monitoring
and supervision on the part of IDA staff will be required and is planned
for. From a national standpoint, the proposed project entails limited
risks than most other projects in Bangladesh involving significant capital
outlays and expansion of productive capacity.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the ERL and the Recommendation of the Commit-
tee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
include: (i) the execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the borrower and ERL (paragraph 56); (ii) the approval of the
Project Proforma by the borrower (paragraph 55); (iii) the appointment of
a training manager by ERL (paragraph 46); (iv) the appointment of a
Project Implementation Coordinator by ERL (paragraph 52); and (v) the
appointment of EMUNs Managing Director by GOB (paragraph 52). It would be
a condition of disbursement of the proposed credit allocated for: (a) the
energy efficiency component, that GOB has adequately staffed the Energy
Monitoring Unit and formed the Energy Conservation Coordination Group in a
manner, satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 52); and (b) the
research and development component, that the Bangladesh University of
Engineering and Technology has entered into an arrangement, satisfactory
to the Association, for collaboration with an experienced foreign research
institution (paragraph 52).
69.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
April 21, 1983                                    By E. Stern
Washington, D. C.



-23-                                        Annex I
TABLE 3A                                       Page  1
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV>RAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            144.0                                MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      97.3              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  40.0        70.0      130.0              261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        ..        24.9      39.7              448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0     68117.0  88513.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1          7.6      11.0                17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     141.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       321.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2125
POPIULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      371.5       473.0     600.7               158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. 101. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9      703.0     889.0               355.9                  1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.3        46.3      42.8               36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        51.0      54.6               59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         2.7       2.6                3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.4       2.6                 2.0                     2.3
URBAN                              3.6         6.3       6.5                3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    53.5         49.2      45.3                29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    28.1         22.7      18.2                11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.6         3.4       2.9                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       373.0    1607.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..       8.9/c             19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         106.0       101.0      97.0              108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   87.3        84.7        ..               97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.9        42.7        ..               56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.1         8.7        ..               20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     24.8        23.0      20.0               10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.3         41.6      46.3               57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          159.0       150.3     136.1               89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        45.0      53.O/d              32.9                    32.0
URBAN                               ..        13.0      15.0/7              70.7                    51.9
RURAL                               ..        47.0      55.0/1i             22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       5.0/e              18.1                    37.7
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.0/ie             72.7                    65.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PH1SICIAN              ..      8427.2/f 12691.9/c           3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..    76808.3  40489.7/i             4929.3                   4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               ..      702l.5/j  4499.3/c            1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                               ..       BIB.S/j   627.4/c            301.3                    651.6
RURAL                               ..          ..  23362.4/c             5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                 ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.9/h     5.8
URBAN                                .         6.17ih    6.1
RURAL                               ..         5.97i    5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..       3.5
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



-24-
Annex I
TABLE 3A
BANOLADZH-- 6SCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANGLADESH                     REPERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEPGES
O CEO -  MOST RECENT ISTMAT-
MOST RCZCNS        LW "INCOM                   MIDDLS INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb    AiXA 6 PACIFIC                ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         52.0      65.0                 97.4                      96.2
MALE                  66.0         68.0       79.0               101.0                      99.8
FEMALE                26.0         34.0       49.0                87.8                      92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         19.0       25.0                53.0                      37.6
MALE                  14.0         29.0       38.0                63.8                      41.1
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       11.0                41.3                      34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   1.0            0.8        0.7                 1.7                      20.8
PUPIL-TEACBER RATIO
PRIMARY                                          45.1      43.8                 37.7                      35.5
SECONDARY                             ,,         26.4      24.9                 20.2                      25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21.6         23.0/h    26.0/c               52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                        0.4       0.4                  1.5                       9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                        6.0       8.2                 35.4                     116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                                  0.5                  3.2                      37.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                                           4.7                 16.4                      53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                                                3.6                       2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TEOUSANDS)    19251.6       23611.0   31477.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.6      17.5                 29.5                     33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               87.0         86.0      74.0                 70.0                      52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0         3.0       11.0                 15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.7      35.6                 40.0                      38.5
MALE                                  58.7         55.9      56.9                 51.8                      50.5
FZMALE                                11.4         11.9      12.9                 23.8                      26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.3                 1.0                       1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/i                   14.6/k
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.57!        44 1I/     42.2/%         
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 97I         8.773     6.97,
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF BOUSEHOLDS   17S97          19. 63    18.27k
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY LNCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                     139.0/c              133.8                    194.7
RURAL                                                     111.0/c              111.1                    155.1
EST LIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                                                   178.2
RURAL                                                                                                   164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                      86.0/c               43.8                     24.4
RURAL                                               .      86.0/ig              51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages for each indicator are populationveighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwden 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /j 1972; /h 1973; /i 1964;
/J 1967, Lk 19747.
May 1982



-25-                                                                                    Anns. I
Notes    oihotch  he  ..t  oP tne  re  nrn             ~oiilo  ]td    teseratdritn                    -tIrliable, it should also be tetd  iliac thy cy not be inter-
ratonll   ocysuna   acoeo   te  oo    f etot'eldd hiftittot  and .ontepis osena by dIff--et  cowete  Io coilotIng tm  dais.  lTM  data                                     III-055
toniesa, uaehol no leecrlbo tedero of segnitode, indicateL it-de, sod Trctresrreeejor difhe-nnt..s betne                     etie
flee reftrerce gec-pe  r I  eh aecttyiro.p of ttta clt] o-t c-1ty seaoi .o.outry group pith so-shee  hicte-  gtm. Ltoese th-sn testy froo
tatlocoltcal .cf lltiesI.  I  the.eoe        grop losbt-       isee   at_ooseietlgbtd eretneo   eeefa  ec   "aditttadeonol   l
00-foty oh the.aten    iat pcodtafretlfIctror    SI-c  the ce-if  o  cttte   sn  the  otc-to- depends on  ho  -nilabulliv of data
se   nrnstlc.csitetc   oeeoea    trl e   ata...e.. of et  bodi--iottoniother.                                      l. -be  ....a.e  at. only se-lo  in cop-rteg its  -aS    o
.tlr,i ottotanats opts.)                                                    Populaiot Per deepitalitol - toe. ohat  adrural- Pntaintecial
Ictsi-  otl  orot  sn -cW-etIg land te   and   led ..e..a  idyar.                                    .ad rural) dIvidd by thei   eptistee   1heceibo
E.rtlnri -bsiob   of  fIct -opa   -te seed rnspotstily op psrnentnty                          stoioi   o  p"i"t sad pli-et  is--a  and spoolsliesd hesp..elanre
hen crop.. Pa..te .         "a  ova iertoe  ic-dst  e  to !le  failso; 1979 dat.-                    hableeteonss                epel   r   aalteecpyastly taffed
GNP PEd coIAl  (,IS$)   GNOlP pe -a  ia   n   ae   o   otn    sea    rra -La-doll are  settinclded.  tuolhe-I                                            aa  t -ec. iaoia'dn health
c.tored In,, oce    ncorcio  eanhod 00  od   isd  ton jl-O   hse                                        -I,  n  endirol c...e. -rot   p- -1ety stffed by a fpbyelioi    (heby
1970, _et ,0d 191oas                                                                                   odel essat  ese,sdie                      tc.l  hliob   llo  it-paitntatt_      n
,.dd                                                                                                                      p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ain o  rtd alntdrnc fsdtl,.. ftIties IaIssO
L!o    t-t  rs        cloaa-I   o    aia   dd.9,7, Itoo  IS9P                                   cntoe.prle  ea    oPitl  ectolded only so. de "eeaI
Iro   heitale   -ioldd bythtoe ofad.
PCPILII1-_ 17t.li1l.L STATlhTlCh
PotalPeesto         M is-Yea-      lacsse       . s  5July L.  9IhI, 1970. sod Ad                 FhAbINi
data                                                                                                                                            h,t ..e   h  bseol   oesn   e   h ,seed  -  oal,rse   n  ttl
Mrla ..us t I Ijrrc   -1eftosl --  -a  oo   ta   ottlpplto                                             bsaod   ossss       ri   hlftdaeu    hr    i-tie                        dqeaeIe
p   ~eeng ,,oottrtou t idhI. 1910, sod 1930 sate_h    nsbl    yetiaio    epsc
.....t..A  YnterJil-  lrr    popular to   p-e]ootiine or  bateda  1919                              btr ofPi eo      Ie rest  slErlise, sod tota  attpio   satetns
toa    ooottof5tsdaoad ie                 - oetlly. cod forth  ity roe.deelse   spoetioay.  Deslilecs sealude  o-.Pee.coe  s ters  n
Pnolotetoepanancterelee e .talty 1tot   _eo_rico  oh - eltsIo sss                          tcc d pats.
toZ Ib epetoc            'tbleoIn-    doo  airthosey   pe -cp-  Intr                            Aoest  ietrct   lpotEtn  soanellens"I   Itetil. arba, aed fetal
-to  .ad  -emIth  etir. booty taiim              a  77.15ess   Ihe par-                       Canretinl..I d-iellfsetl   lttitn    eIloin   ps- -ec
f-es  o   lr-il ity rein  also hen  thre  lenels aseu     donts Io                            oh totl, urban  an...d  -ute  doaIllIeeet-seattio y.
f-tItIt_ty tod tg na in-s  Ieon  end pc  felily PIseie-               prf.    ette
-ah   otney is t~hen aisi d or  ec these.      o   c tesisof  -"taity                    EDUCATION
th   ih    oeceqa   ntedah   oe   n    lotras_rcooe                                            etole       toh al  ae s--       -thepieae   lon-   en    ...e..cs  of reeeeti-
In the obey 100, an htt   rate of endLo of he-tlie Yet  ho. ....PIoon-                            Secordary terl-toal  tale aed fen1l  - Cownitad as shee; s"I'dor
hornnnl      l-o-eoito  ta reachea  - lbs fet  oin  nrtsaypopolseion                         p_oodsc sese   .  ca  eti.or    h-e tr  aingineoo                      sle   enl
et1 -e -oah-a                                                                                  ctlly oh 12 to  17 jea-  of            ......spoeda-n-a      ..  ...es    eo -eeeelly
Pert0   ,e   gnoior         .od   C--Ieed soalen  lef-           elolarl  ad                        trily  o  es dptietof ceotst  inetinthne.
celet IhO. 191 and 171 den.          ~eti-sscbeecarte    peter,l ad es-od-r   - Total  -sd-nt  nneilod he
Potu....s  io nEct-r   (Percent  - Child-e  If-l4 .e.e....t. e-oe   li-                                eri-oy sod  -eAdet  I.-Iic dinided by t-bl-r of reaher  te 'h-
hiyss.st   eie415yacsd oer   o   atei - Of eid-yna-  pops-                                           soc..e.pendit  le-l..
lto;Ad 19ff.ad19f  dn.                                                                   Adlt litetc   _tet  ip- ....t) - l.it--esdil1   (blue  no reed sod   ind
FPoplato Iy-Th tscc  (peret _         toe-    O .oeoa   greeth  Iep      f  -sel ldd-                  saP.....utagao ef aldet peptisto   aced 15 yeaee sdoer
year  tr..  -ie    fo  I951-h.  "907, sr   9ff-do
foesu-tlo  rCo-th  R,t  Jeer-tet)- stro              -       -aes   eeh   roo    iobeo fpsp-     OCLVTIIbipi
.950ofo  lh-60, 196f-'   . ed   97-if                                                      P...peacete  Ceti lOst tht-d toenithon P - P.....     te  cotisae
Crd   R-eedt  (toe c--nod) -dnoiIleotb   per ro-se  oet-ar idta s-eill lace thee eicht proaneiossairs,hc-.n. s-d
py.to;19~0. 1970. n-o  ItfI lon.-                                                            siltar   enitee
loco  heth  otetee   ortoai I- nonseL  eat's Pee eh..os.d  of shey-no                                                         Pot2esene(o   hoen  ulati-ni - Aflltye   f1teene  o  tasi
ocplaio; lAid, lyfI.ad  9dl  -as-ood-ae-t   asnri' puuir pa, pbuad ofPouai; noltodI
itone teRodi,         haehoes   seto d_o R`rIaone   aill blne  to                                      1 .r....rerI--tc  Inesehsadi    artso elesinofrm
oil Iy  tote; ooallrfle-rea    -tnafe  endin   be19b  19.  and 19f.-                         sot._ Icoo  teltf-ia...ied        I iteesien
facile Plseoop-icce -ecr .-Inoa  (tootsotfc)       i - Ifete     0 cols  of actator           770heoies(nr            hoad toe....nien.S      1  eeieefr  r een
lasse Pltotos-Lnes  (eece-s  e-sralnoose) -   Penretag-  of  -ee --e                         "In tostie       n    inened  ofpen teietrati-    of          E- s bn eon he-ofot.
Eee  ef  ihid-1f -tog be 1'daily"  if i  apear  snh. .-Iourtin   a  sed
FWD    ei  nrn   eeasepteeesANDdlI.  99  sd11  aets. ONtotal labo  ropes Iftncreoe-a     - - oa                                                     -  eeii    anie   peses.   httl
pet eeit  supro   elre             rore   ftdoteen               -isetd   fresed fotesa and sot-p.oeddbutaedidie   ho-notes,oto-et.ec.
qnsn.itlnn  sed i  f.    prso-eco-eg  cod. Itne .!he. ItiL.etto          d. feeia-AeOrttitaE    Iereh-ietbe   steig   ottp    unn 
,tte _Itens        P,e  by. 25  based ongt   19ysioioir0i o de  e  total actt-                        fishe   so pt -estsd o  toa   laeefrt;IO-                  11  ed9lfas
hoo- hedy   A-len l; 1911-9 . 1970aed197 dat.",19-6-.-19flso  19ff, dots.                                                                90  l~
pols ponib,of.ii lt Idf    re   oboold h          conlP.- sto     . ltse   tee-rfone    g-esecuso   h    eost                                          n  Ion 0iZ -s  e.    a
onisel pronhe as enennags le  the nopi, preptee   by pac i  ti  -hird                           R_nso   esdne   ai  --Iie      ..ppclte . edfe=e 15 sed hi sod oP
tyte  on  detod   re  lf naie;1f,97ad1ff  data,                                              of_ holttedha9 ds.   l'
oh-90ld  FM  hat`o-ard1lIce   irs s  1910,d 19770. so-9f  os                                             h.soob   peen   ner   ee.sthntt.1orltlseht       iie
Chrrdnteg-c ofoetreonie ouatos lo so dsttao  are  ape bit                                            pe goto   moos  of its  cett .   Mran _coo            i     -ete  -It-   bytsrua
foinreteseen sodeoct lotete d.nr. ee  tree  _lfO- nee.. ftehosoy_elniatafueneheeolo   oso  Iloho   he...nandreos...4
AttesH tolotr.Osecl   ntre  of toeslTthn  -fttl u.tba.aIPee Y-
PonobtIIsto     thyn. ..... Pplationdnie   bPti                 fpecieo    p..--Y-   eston.  end tona  fete d hietai.,.
eln    olftd Indet  e.a.doe  satb          GO'fnl  it aetnh..ity.onnh- t                                                          -otos  f nelyiet se   ....ntt .....      see
Poeloisspe  fiiehenPeeen-  opeston   tednahrettne  ofprtti teIfy   96
sei  an  feel  frdnas noss.  oottI. tres.lplctis  n-eeooo
tutshngeesliistlehn.c                   h   fh-hld                                            d  .. I



29 .r                                                         Annex 1
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       91.5 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$120 (FY81)
Amount              Average Annual Increase (X)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (7)
(million US$            (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
Indicator                                       FY81               FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-81          FY60       FY70       FY75      FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                        11,989                 4.0       -0.6        6.0         100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture /a                                  6,423                 3.1      -1.3         4.3          59.9       56.9       62.5      53.6
Industry /a                                     1,680                7.9       -3.2         6.0           7.7        9.6       11.3      14.0
Services 7a                                     3,887                4.9         3.3        8.8          30.1       30.0       26.2      32.4
Consumption                                      11,701                 4.4      -0.7         5.7          92.4       92.8       99.1      97.6
Gross domestic investment                         2,064                10.9     -10.9        20.2           6.9       11.3        8.1      17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                               859                0.8     -11.7         5.7          10.0        8.3        3.2       7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                            2,635                 8.8     -12.0         3.6           9.3       12.5       10.4      22.0
Gross national savings                               639               26.5     -17.7        -8.4           0.9        6.1        1.0       5.3
Amount                                                  Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)
(million US$                                                        (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY81                                                   FY73      FY75      FY80      FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                  710.8                                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                         165.2                                                 40.4      29.6      24.3      23.2
Manufactures                                       545.6                                                 59.6      70.4      75.7      76.8
Merchandise imports                               2,524.0                                                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                              342.4                                                  44.1      41.5      29.1      13.6
Petroleum                                         490.1                                                   3.2      11.1      15.7      19.4
Machinery & equipment                             580.0                                                  13.8       9.6      20.0      23.0
Other                                           1,111.5                                                  38.9      37.8      35.1      44.0
FY74       FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                                  140.6       240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      249.2      264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                        7.9661      8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                            103.7       123.5      107.1      111.8      127.7      167.5      200.9      178.6
Import price index                                            152.8       194.8      186.2      183.1      179.4      218.0      250.3      283.9
Terms of trade index                                           67.9        63.4       57.5       61.1       71.2       76.8       80.3       62.9
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY73     FY75      FY77    FYSO       FY81
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                            5.0       5.4      9.5      10.6      12.0
Current expenditure                                                        6.5       4.5      7.8       7.8       7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                        -1.5     +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
"apital expenditure                                                        8.8       3.1      9.5      13.5      12.1
Foreign financing                                                          7.1       2.4      6.0       8.3       7.7
FY60-70    FY70-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                           4.2        -0.7         5.8         7.9
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                                1.5        -3.3         3.0         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
= not available
= not applicable
/a At market prices.
Th Raw jute, tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



-277-
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                                    Projected
FY74       FY75       FY76        FY77       FY78        FY79       FY80       FY81          FY82       FY83
Net exports of goods                                  -551    -1,050         -885       -454        -859       -946     -1,645      -1,813       -1,780    -1,938
Exports of goods                                     374         352        381        411         490        610        727         711          640         732
Imports of goods                                    -925      1,402    -1,266         -865    -1,349    -1,556        -2,372     -2,524        -2,420     -2,670
Net exports of services                                -21          12        -24        -29         -32        -27           3         11           -70       -120
Workers- remittances                                     19         34         62          81        113         143        210        377           400        450
Current account balance                               -553    -1,004         -847       -402        -778       -830    -1,432       -1,425       -1,450    -1,608
'      Direct private investment                                           ..
MLT loans (net)                                        276         498        498        238         398        420         581        481           501
Grants & grant-like flows                              174         382        245         265        393        553         591        616           650    -1,608
Other capital flows (net)                               45         275         52        -20         -38        -19         141        304           199
*      Change in reserves (- = increase)                        58       -151         53         -81         25       -124         119         24           100        -
International reserves (end of period)                 115         266        213        294         269        393         274        250           150        150
Reserves as months of imports of next year            0.98        2.52       2.95       2.62        2.07       1.99        1.30       1.24         0.67        0.63
Actual
FY74        FY75         FY76        FY77         FY78        FY79         FY80        FY81
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                      173.8        382.3       244.7        264.8       392.6        553.2       590.8        616.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                     287.4       518.9        563.5        268.3       435.3        476.8       631.4        531.0
Concessional                                       201.4       458.4        533.0       244.1        400.8       456.4        601.6       509.6
Bilateral                                        150.4       342.8        389.9       144.0        261.9       212.6        272.7       255.2
IDA                                              51.0        112.5       127.8         86.1         88.2       152.5        152.1       170.9
Other multilateral                                 -           3.1         15.3        14.1         50.7        91.3        176.9        83.4
Non-concessional                                    86.0        60.4         30.4         24.1        34.5         20.4        29.8         21.4
Official export credits                          40.6         45.2         16.5         5.6          1.7         3.3         16.8         2.0
IBRD
Other multilateral                                 5.4         0.3          1.1         0.5          0.5         0.1          0.3         0.8
Private                                           40.0        14.9         12.8        18.0         32.3        17.0         12.7        18.6
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period) 492.8    1,352.6             1,795.9     2,051.5    2,569.2    2,949.2         3,215.6     3,584.8
Official                                           383.3    1,232.8       1,689.0     1,939.8     2,435.6      2,808.3      3,068.8    3,462.1
IBRD                                               -          54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9        54.9
IDA                                             105.6        255.3       379.8        465.9       554.2        706.7       858.8      1,028.5
Other                                            222.8       922.6     1,254.3      1,419.0     1,826.5    2,046.7       2,155.1      2,378.7
Private                                            109.5       119.8        106.9       111.6        133.6       140.9        146.8       122.7
Undisbursed Debt                                     580.8     1,019.4        947.5    1,015.8       1,335.4    1,659.1       1,716.7     2,068.4
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                           18.0         31.3        87.4         58.5        69.2         95.1        93.7         92.0
Interest                                             7.3        10.1         21.9        28.4         32.1        38.1         43.3        42.0
Payments as % of export earnings                       4.8          8.9        22.9         14.2        14.1         15.6        12.9         12.9
Payments as % of GNP                                   0.2          0.2         1.2          0.9         0.8          1.0         0.8          0.7
Average interest rate on new loans (Z)                 3.2          2.0          1.7         1.6          1.5         1.4          1.4         1.6
Official                                             2.9         2.0          1.6          1.5         1.3          1.4         1.2          1.5
Private                                              5.1         2.3          7.8          6.4         6.2         6.1          6.9         7.2
Average maturity of new loans (years)                 26.1         35.5        41.6         40.1        37.7         35.9        33.6         35.9
Official                                            28.3        35.8         42.2        40.8         38.6        36.3         34.2        36.2
Private                                             13.3         15.3        11.3         11.0         9.5         14.8        19.3        18.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                     -            4.0         3.0          2.6         2.1          1.8         1.7          1.5
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements           -            -           -            -           -            -           -            -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                   -            -           1.8          5.6         4.8          4.1         3.7          4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                     21.4         18.8        21.1        22.7         21.6         24.0        26.7         28.6
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements           17.7         21.7        22.7         32.1        20.3         32.0        24.0         32.1
IDA debt service/total debt service                    1.3          3.1         2.5          5.3         5.4          4.6         6.0          7.3
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY81
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)
Maturities due within 5 years                                           13.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                          36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (Z)
Interest due within first year                                            1.6
. = not available.
ASADD
April 15. 1982



-28-                        ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at September 30, 1982)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                              US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                   Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 21 credits fully disbursed                      54.90  684.32        -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                        -      14.00     0.65
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)             -      25.00     2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                        -       7.50      0.10
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II               -      20.00      5.29
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                 -      62.00      1.88
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                          -      15.00      3.43
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                  -      27.00    12.31
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                -      22.00     7.64
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -          12.00      3.48
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                   -      16.00      5.97
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank              -      25.00     3.55
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                   -      16.00      2.55
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                   -      21.00    11.84
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research              -      10.00      2.62
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II           -       5.00      2.12
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                -      21.00    13.40
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                -      25.00    16.68
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II             -       7.00      3.15
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research               -       6.00      1.58
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control          -      19.00    13.57
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III            -      10.00      4.87
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00      5.06
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                 -      25.00    20.79
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population & Family Health II   -          32.00    28.93
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                    -      28.00    27.41
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                     -      22.00    10.48
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



-29-                      ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                       US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                -        25.00    22.34
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                      -        10.00     8.83
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII             -        50.00     0.05
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                   -        37.00    21.55
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II    -          20.00    19.20
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation               -        29.00    26.79
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation               -        20.00    15.60
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation           -       11.00      9.49
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II            -       25.00      0.20
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                   -        40.00    36.05
1065/C 1980   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III         -       35.00    34.42
1071/c 1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX               -       65.00    12.80
1091/c 1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development        -       85.00    50.71
1096/c 1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                      -        25.00    18.98
1117/C 1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II        -       50.00    44.22
1124/c 1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV          -       16.00    15.98
1140/c 1981   Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                   -       18.00    16.30
1147LC 1981   Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit              -       40.00    40.00
1184/c 1982   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood
Control II                   -        27.00    26.00
1194/c 1982   Bangladesh   Imports Program X                -      100.00    66.55
/c 1204/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer    -           15.00    15.00
/c 1205/b 1982   Bangladesh   Textile Industry Rehabili-
tation                       -        30.00    30.00
/c 1215/b 1982   Bangladesh   Extension and Research II        -        27.00    27.00
/c 1247/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Port                  -        60.00    60.00
/c 1254/b 1982   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Thermal Power           -        92.00    92.00
/c 1262/b 1982   Bangladesh   Rural Electrification            -        40.00    40.00
/c 1287/b 1982   Bangladesh   Second Deep Tubewells            -        68.00    68.00
Total                                               54.90  2,242.82 1,030.16
of which has been repaid                            -         0.40      -
Total now outstanding                                54.90  2,242.42 1,030.16
Amount sold                               0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  2,242.42
Total undisbursed                                     -    1,030.16 1,030.16
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not yet effective.
/c   IDA 6th Replenishment Credits denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of principal
shown in US$ equivalent at time of negotiation and undisbursed amounts
computed at the September, 1982 rate.



ANNEX II
Page 3
/a
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                         Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                  Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding            Ship-
and Heavy Engineering            building
Co. Ltd.                                             1.20    0.36     1.56
1980       IPDC                             DFC                 -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                         1.20    1.41      2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -              -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                               1.20    1.41      2.61
Total undisbursed                                               0.65      -      0.65
/a   The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                  Tannery            2.1       .2      2.3
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-3)1-                      ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project closed on December 31, 1981. The Government have been
requested to confirm that no further applications for expenditure are pending
and that the undisbursed balance amount can be cancelled.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Barisal Irrigation Project I was completed on June 30, 1981 and
taken over on maintenance. Barisal extension was taken up with the savings of
BIP 1. Farmers response for the dry season (Boro) cultivation has been much
below expectation mainly due to the land tenure system and credit facilities.
However, there has been an increase of one third over the previous years
cultivation. Good progress is maintained on civil works construction in the
extension area. Procurement preliminaries for the primary pumps, gates and
low lift pumps have been completed and deliveries should have started.
Agricultural demonstration farms are in operation in the extension area.
Generally progress is satisfactory. The project could be completed before
the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation which was about 2.5 years behind schedule has
shown remarkable progress in 1981/82 and if adequate funds are released in
1982/83 completion except for flood embankments will be by June 1983. GOB
expects to provide shortly technical justifications and social reasons for the
deletion of embankments. The trend on agricultural development is encouraging
and expected benefits would be attained. The current project estimates with
embankments and including additional intricate works show a cost overrun of
37.5%.
The fisheries component is essentially completed. The Raipur
hatchery is in full production and final disbursements are expected to be
made up to the end of 1982.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Following a request from GOB that the credit closing date be
extended to allow completion of components initially delayed, the closing
date has been extended to June 30, 1983. Project implementation is now



-32-                        ANNEX II
Page 5
proceeding satisfactorily and the project should be completed according to
the new schedule. Sale of Deep Tubewells is almost complete but sale of
Low Lift Pumps is slow. The Rural Industries component has been intensified.
Project management is much improved.
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
construction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation which was about two years behind schedule
will suffer a further setback for delays in finalizing the design and tender
documents for the closure dam work. The Feni Regulator is expected to be
operational in February 1983. Agricultural and IRDP activities will commence
in early 1982/83. Farmers- response for adoption of improved agricultural
practice and group formation appears good. A cost overrun is expected due
to a likely increase in the cost of the closure works.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
As of September 30, 1982 US$7.38 million had been disbursed.  The
credit was closed on June 30, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipe-
line will continue.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date:  April 14, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Staff housing component has been scaled down.



-33-                        ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
165,000 MT storage construction program has gained additional momentum and
is now satisfactory. The storage rehabilitation component has been reduced
from 25,000 MT to 10,000 MT, and the number of paddy drying from 15 MT to 5 MT
as a result of implementation delay. Contracts for rehabilitation have been
awarded for 7,750 MT, and tenders are being issued for civil works construc-
tion of paddy dryers and evaluated for drying equipment.  Quality control
equipment has been procured, but considerable additional efforts are required
in the area of grain quality control and inspection. The project is now
anticipated to be completed by June 30, 1983.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily.
Almost all research station buildings are now complete and farm development
only remains to be finished at the Jessore and Hathazari stations. Research
programs on research stations and those supported by the research grant
scheme are being vigorously pursued. The technical monitoring scheme is now
operating well and a monitoring and evaluation cell, established at BARC
headquarters, will now apply techniques pioneered under the project to all
grant-supported research.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project is designed to assist in the development of a group of
six oxbow lakes through the introduction of composite techniques for fish
culture and improved lake management technologies. Hatchery and rearing
facilities will be established for the production of carp fingerlings for
stocking of project lakes where little stocking took place in the past. As
a result, annual carp production from project lakes is estimated to increase



ANNEX II
Page 7
from 138 MT to 1,100 MT, representing an eight fold increase. Hatchlings
and fry will also be sold to pond owners. This will have a country-wide
impact introducing for the first time fish farming technology based on
composite fish culture for small water bodies in private ownership. A
project implementation unit, supported by an international consultancy firm
has been set up within the Directorate of Fisheries. Construction of the
central hatchery at Lake Baluhar started in January 1982, some 12 months
behind schedule.  The delay was caused by managerial and administrative
weaknesses and shortage of counterpart funds. It is now expected that the
central hatchery will start operations in March/April 1983 and the satellite
hatcheries one year thereafter.  Full project benefits are expected for 1986.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects were approved in FY81 and FY82 respectively.
Construction has been completed on eleven subprojects. Progress is satisfac-
tory. However, there is a need to increase substantially the allocations to
the revolving fund to avoid delays in project implementation due to shortages
of funds. This issue is currently being discussed with GOB.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs under the
Phase I sales program, were delivered in October 1980. Orders have also been
placed for the remaining 4,000 LLPs. About 40% of the LLPs under Phase I of
the sales program has been sold. A detailed project Action Plan has been
prepared. About 95% of the projected disbursements (as percentage of appraisal
estimate) has been made.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall Project performance is good. The establishment of planta-
tions was carried out according to SAR targets in 1981 and current progress
indicates that this year's target will also be achieved. The procurement of
essential equipment and materials has been completed. The civil works program
has now started and physical progress on the first phase is estimated at
about 15%. However, staffing remains behind the SAR target. The implementa-
tion of the Plantation Trial Unit Program has been delayed. No activity
on the Public Relations Component has been started. As a response to the
April/May Supervision, FD has agreed to give high priority to intensify
overall activity on the lagging operations.



-35-                        ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1140 Hand Tubewells Project: US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Civil works are complete
and plans are well in hand for local foundries to fabricate pumpheads. However,
shipment of raw materials has been delayed by preshipment inspection problems.
BUET and BARC/BARI are being contracted to carry out laboratory and field
testing of alternative handpump models.
Cr. No. 1147 Agricultural Credit Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to farmers
for investments in minor irrigation and other agricultural development, and
to private borrowers for grain storage facilities. Progress in privatization
of shallow tubewells is proceeding very slowly. Although import licenses have
been issued to authorized private dealers, opening of the letters of credit
is delayed by a new directive not to import certain makes previously author-
ized. STW prices set by GOB are still below those of private dealers.
Appointment of consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation
agency, is yet to be made.
Cr. No. 1184 Second Drainage and Flood Control Project: US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Effective Date: July 14, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit became effective on July 14, 1982.
Cr. No. 1215 Second Extension and Research Project: US$27 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1287 Second Deep Tubewells Project: US$68.0 Million Credit of
August 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project was cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency



-36-                         ANNEX II
Page 9
fluctuations, supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained.
The Project has now been mechanically completed. Despite continuing minor
commissioning problems, production of urea was started in December 1981, about
six months later than anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and
total project costs are likely to be about US$15 million higher than that
approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Institutional upgrading program instituted under the credit are
still under implementation, continuing the improvement on BSB's loan account-
ing and staff training. However, because of declining collection BSB's
financial position has weakened significantly. This area of operational
weakness is receiving close GOB/IDA attention, and IDA is coordinating
closely with ADB and KfW to implement an action program to restore BSB's
financial viability.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$49.9 million has been disbursed. The
credit was closed on February 28, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipe-
line will continue.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices



-37-                        ANNEX II
Page 10
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$24.8 million had been disbursed.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1982 and payment for commitments in the
pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 1065  Small-Scale Industry III Project:  US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The credit became effective on January 15, 1982. The credit com-
ponents of the project are moving well, particularly in the area of small-
medium sized projects. Progress is also satisfactory on the technical and
marketing service components of the technical assistance elements of the
project.
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Progress on implementing ongoing action program requirements
continue satisfactorily albeit somewhat behind schedule. During FY81,
GOB has initiated a number of the policy changes required under the credit,
particularly in the areas of agriculture/irrigation policy.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This project continues IDA's involvement with BSB initiated under
Cr. 632-BD. Institutional upgrading programs initiated under that credit
are being continued and GOB/IDA are monitoring carefully BSBs operation
in the areas of loan recoveries and project appraisals. IDA is also coor-
dinating closely with ADB and KfW to implement an action program aimed at
improving BSB-s collection performance and financial viability. As of
September 30, 1982 US$31.7 million of the credit has been committed and
US$5.0 million disbursed.
Cr. No. 1194 Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of January 26,
1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982. As of September
30, 1982 US$33.4 million had been disbursed.



-38-                          ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 1204 Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1205 Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$30.0 Million Credit
of February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works have virtually been completed except for construc-
tion of two new Thana Training Units (50% complete) and for renovation of two
existing Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI), both of which have been slow
to complete due to lack of Taka funds. GOB has now released the needed funds
and work has resumed. The latest estimate (June 1982) for completion of all
works is December 1982. As a result of student strikes in 1981, no first
year students were enrolled and all ATIs are currently operating at only
about 50% capacity. The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
intends to utilize the excess space this year for in-service training of VEAs.
Staffing is adequate and all ATI instructors have received in-service training
under the project. The course to train project managers and those civil
servants directly concerned with implementation of IDA financed agricultural
projects has been successful and an extension of the course to December 1982
has been recently approved by IDA. A further extension to June 1983 is now
under consideration. At the request of GOB, extension of the closing date
from June 30, 1982 to June 30, 1983 has been granted by IDA to allow enough
time to complete all remaining civil works and project activities and to
close all project accounts.
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Progress is evident in several areas of project activity. Bids
have been invited, and the layout plans completed, for the 5 New TTCs.
Equipment being procured by the ILO has started arriving in Bangladesh, and
arrangements for storage, checking, and installation (where possible) are well
advanced. Instructor and In-Plant Training programs are underway. The majority
of Technical Assistance experts are deployed, and a fellowship training
program (suspended for 1 year) prepared. Curriculum Development, trade
standards and tests, and a national vocational training policy are under
preparation. Increased cooperation between the Ministry of Labor (TTCs) and
Ministry of Education (VTI) in Vocational Training is also evident. Project
management, however, continues to be weak and the failure to replenish the
Revolving Fund has hampered instructor and In-Plant training programs.



-39-                         ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The construction program is now underway, but it emphasizes school
repairs and other minor works at some 300 schools. However, designs, plans
and estimates for a further 611 schools (including 289 new schools) and other
project buildings are being prepared. Schedules for school furniture have
been prepared and tenders invited. Textbooks for Class I & II students
procured and tenders invited for the manufacture of girls uniforms. Most
staff are now in position but effectiveness of project management is being
hampered by internal conflicts at the project Director level. A plan for
the recurrent training of teachers has been prepared and the training of PTI
instructors, Thana Education Officers and Asst. Thana Education Officers,
is underway. During the past year 370 officers and teachers were trained.
Four experts under the technical assistance component of the project are now
in post and an agreement signed with the British Council to undertake four
studies required under the project.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: September 30,
1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$11.57 million had been disbursed. The
credit was closed on September 30, 1982 and payment for commitments in the
pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center's component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
the civil works and Family Welfare Centers components of the service
delivery and training parts of the project are significantly delayed and
their completion within the original four year implementation period (July
1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing not only to the initial one
year delay in implementation but also to weak implementation capacity of
responsible agencies, and the impact of budget cuts following the Government s
de facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal, will result in significant
savings. A two year extension of the project implementation period or a
reduction in the projects infrastructure components to match implementation
capacity with subsequent reallocation of the IDA credit are currently being
discussed with the Government.



-40_                         ANNEX II
Page 13
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims has been completed, and the Government
has announced that it intends to contest the award, although an out of court
settlement remains a possibility. The Closing Date of the credit extended to
March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982 to enable the use of
uncommitted credit balance to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni Bypass.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
cargo handling have been ordered. Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels
and BIWTA service vessels have been delivered and are on order. Consultants
appointed to carry out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling of BIWTC and
accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports. Imple-
mentation of the recommendations of the accounting studies is in progress.
At the request of the Borrower the closing date has been extended to
December 31, 1982.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979;  Effective Date:  August 29, 1980;  Closing Date:  June 30,
1984.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the Borrower-s
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted in increased project cost due to inflation. The problem appears to
result from factors outside the control of RHD, e.g., the inability of the
"Procurement Committee" to take timely decisions and standard Government
procedures which are in conflict with IDA procurement principles.
Cr. No. 1096 Fertilizer Transport Project: US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and results
of the survey are expected by end-1982.  Also dredging work at the inland
river port of Baghabari has been completed and pontoons are to be in place
shortly. Tenders for procurement of railway material have been issued.
Progress on other project components has been slow, but regular supervision
missions are providing assistance to speed up implementation. Disbursement
of funds, on the other hand, has been satisfactory.



-41--                      ANNEX II
Page 14
Cr. No. 1247  Chittagong Port Project:  US$60.0 Million Credit of May 21,
1982; Closing Date:  December 31, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date:  July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organiz-
ing its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development.
TTB funds had until recently all been deposited in an overall Government
account. Since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank account to which all
funds are deposited and withdrawn and the accounting functions have been
transferred from Controller-s Auditor General to TTB. The overhaul of account-
ing functions, staff and methodology is proceeding very well. Recruitment of
staff has been completed and TTB now has an established and trained cadre
of financial staff. Commercial accounts will be preapred from FY82/83 onward.
In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good. Thus, TTB is
gradually achieving a level of financial autonomy that will permit it to
adjust its development program within the overall framework of the agreed
budget. Covenants under the project are now being complied with. Since
May 1981, TTB has taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining
under the project. Works related to last procurement, including national
trunk and international electronic telephone exchanges, will be completed by
June 1983. Adequate actions as would be required to further improve TTB's
management, operations and development capability, will be considered under
the proposed third telecommunications project.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
37 subprojects, totalling about $10.7 million have been approved.
The credit is about half disbursed and has been over allocated to increase
disbursements. Sixteen subprojects have been completed. The remaining
subprojects are proceeding smoothly except in several instances, consultant
contracts have not been finalized.



-42-                     ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. Three subprojects
for about $0.2 million have been committed. A number of proposed subprojects
totalling about $7.0 million have been agreed in principle and steps are being
taken to secure consultant services. In addition, a pipeline of subprojects
totalling about $15.0 million is under consideration.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981 and conditions have been created to recuperate part of the delay.
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Major procurement activities have been completed. Construction of
the Bakhrabad-Chittagong pipeline has been suspended because of the current
monsoon. The construction contract requires completion of the pipeline by
end-March 1983 in line with the original schedule. The last gas well (BK-5)
has been completed. Test results from the drilling program so far confirm
gas reserves and well productivity forecasts by reservoir consultants.
Cr. No. 1254 Ashuganj Thermal Power Project: US$92.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1262  Rural Electrification Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1989
This Credit is not yet effective.



-43-                      ANNEX II
Page 16
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by early 1983. Physical progress
is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow startup and
sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems, which
have recently been mostly overcome, and shortage of local currency with which
to pay civil works contractors. Also, recently, DACCA WASA raised its tariff
by 30% and GOB paid off all arrears.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is in place and design is now well advanced. Selection of a second consultant
for a sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial
adviser has proved effective. Procurement has started but implementation
will be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. Recent tariff increase is not
sufficient and another increase by July 1, 1983 is expected. While there has
been improvement in the collection of arrears from Government departments,
further improvement is still necessary.



-44-                        ANNEX III
Page  1 of 3
BANGLADESH
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REFINERY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Ten months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
Mid 1981
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
November 1981
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:
May 1982
(f) Completion of negotiations:
April 1983
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
August 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
(i) Financing of 10 man-months consultant services under
Credit 1124-BD (Fourth Technical Assistance Credit),
to carry out inspection of ERL's refinery, prepare



-45-                      ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
detailed implementation design and bidding documents,
including bill of materials with specifications, for
the acquisition of needed equipment and materials.
(ii) Financing of engineering studies and equipment and
materials for energy conservation/diversification
investments under Credit 1091-BD (Bakhrabad Gas
Development Project).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) GOB would: (a) cause ERL to submit by December 31, 1983,
for the Association's review and implement thereafter, a
training program, taking into account the Association's
comments (paragraph 46); (b) obtain from each staff member
selected for training under the proposed project, an
assurance in support of his continued employment in ERL
for a period of, at least, five years after completing his
training program, failing which such employee will reim-
burse ERL the costs involved in his training (paragraph
46); (c) submit for the Association's review and comments
its proposals for the provision of secondary conversion
facilities to ERL's refinery (paragraph 46); (d) submit
for the Association's review and implement thereafter a
five-year maintenance plan for ERL's facilities (paragraph
46); no later than June 30, 1984, dispose of ERL's
long-term pre-independence debt and adopt payment proce-
dures which will not adversely affect the financial condi-
tion of ERL (paragraph 60); submit the results of Phase I
of the gas-based projects feasibility studies for the
Association's review before commencing any detailed
feasibility study under Phase II (paragraph 52); and
on-lend the portion of the proposed credit intended for
ERL for a period of 12 years, including 4 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 14% per annum (paragraph 56);
(b)  GOB would cause ERL to:  (a) insure ERL's refinery
facilities for an amount satisfactory to IDA (paragraph
62); and (b) review and make adjustments at least once
each year to the ex-refinery and retail prices of
petroleum products to such extent as may be required to
ensure that sufficient revenues are generated by BPC in
each fiscal year to cover the full cost of the petroleum
procurement, processing and handling (paragraph 64);



ANNEX III
-46-                      Page  3 of 3
(c) Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) the execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment between the Borrower and the Eastern Refinery
Limited (paragraph 56);
(ii) the approval of the Project Proforma (paragraph 55);
(iii) the appointment of a training specialist by ERL
(paragraph 46);
(iv) the appointment of a Project Implementation Coor-
dinator by ERL (paragrah 52);
(v) the appointment of EMU's Director by GOB (paragraph
52).
(d) It will be a condition of disbursement for:
(i) the energy efficiency component, that GOB has (i)
adequately staffed the Energy Monitoring Unit with
persons whose qualifications and experience are satis-
factory to the Association; (ii) has established and
staffed the Energy Conservation Coordination Group;
and (iii) caused each public sector corporation and
major energy-consuming industry to designate an energy
coordinator and an energy manager, respectively, to be
responsible for energy conservation/diversificaton
activities (paragraph 52);
(ii) the research and development component that the
Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
has entered into an arrangement, satisfactory to the
Association, for collaboration with an experienced
foreign research institution (paragraph 52).



IBRD 16D640
8 a . E ax    ,  X                                          ~~~~~BANGLADESH
X  t   +     v ,         W ~~~~I N    D  ! A        Energy   Efficiency  and    Refinery  Rehabilit*in  Project
G  Tbiugp4) S-\ / < $pm;  '\ ~~~~~~~~~~^ \9  1  9<f              A ~~~~ E.,t.rn Reh,nery Ltd.
-7,  )   g  /\   ( t tX  X  t  ig  SAo,  ;                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E-st,g Natuol G., `,p.li-e           26-
ff   /   <  tYN' ph p   -'<    '  \ <)/-,.5.9 .                         BO~~~~~~~~~~kh,.b.d-Ch,tI.g-lg Gos P,p.li-e(C,ed&t 1091- bD)
p~~~~ ,                                                                                   A    N_  -    l  G.a  s - -
&<~~~~A   i  S  h                               A.9 En   '(X <^ -   0<)
g 0 vA M>G 8 1 \~~~~~~~~~-~
21  ,,,,#_,,_-   0                  0                                                                 ,/               X  p/bA~~~~~~~~~~~~~J,~b21
\  I~~~~~~K                                                N  D I A t 2                                            OSOPS      )\
(S /  ANRADESHYS K h-j1                                                     IL72   ,) h    50'      
919ll                                                   .9Z          ->
\JU9SEILANKA ~~~~ I                                  O 0,~ I ,  ,                                                        X2



