-   -    e CREDIT NUMBER     BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1983


﻿CREDIT MBER      BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1983, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGL  SH(hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by Eastern
Refinery Limited with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Eastern
Refinery Limited part of the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and Eastern Refinery Limited;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ERL" means Eastern Refinery Limited, a company estab-
lished under the Companies Act of 1913;


﻿-2-
(b)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ERL of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ERL pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d) "BPC" means Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation, a corpor-
ation established under the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
Ordinance of 1976 (Ordinance No. LXXXVIII of 1976);
(e) "BUET" means Bangladesh University of Engineering and
Technology located at Dhaka;
(f) "Fiscal year" means the Borrower's, BPC's and ERL's
fiscal years commencing on July 1 and ending on June 30; and
(g)  "EMU" means the Energy Monitoring Unit established
within the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources under Notifi-
cation No. P&MR 111/7 (13) 32/418 (B) dated January 23, 1983.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-six million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 26,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for Part C and E of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be design_ted or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 1993, and ending
April 15, 2033, each installment to and including the installment
payable on April 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to
be carried out Parts B through E of the Projfct with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, engineering and financial practices as follows: (i) Part
B through BPC; (ii) Part C through EMUO; (iii) Part D through the
Ministry of Finance and Planning; (iv) Part E through BUET; and
shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause ERL to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ERL to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend $21,400,000 to ERL under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and ERL under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association and which shall include, inter alia, that: (i)
ERL shall repay to the Borrower the principal amount so relent
over a period of 12 years, including therein a period of four
years; (ii) ERL shall pay to the Borrower interest at a rate of
14% per annum on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn by
ERL and outstanding from time to time; and (iii) ERL shall bear
the foreign exchange risk for the proceeds of the credit relent
to ERL by the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts B through E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ


﻿-5-
or cause BPC, EMU and BUET as the case may be, to employ consul-
tants or experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, such consultants or experts to be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation to the provision of
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, the Borrower undertakes to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction and procurement schedules, work and procurement sche-
dules for Parts B through E of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall, or shall cause BPC, EMU, and BUET
to: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of their respective Parts of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning their respective Parts of the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(c) The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Resources, prepare and furnish to the Association, for
comments, quarterly reports covering the progress of all parts of
the Project, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for comments, before the commencement of the feasibility studies
to be carried out under Part D.2 of the Project, the results of
the study included under Part D.1 of the Project, and the recom-
mendations of the Borrower.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause BPC to furnish to the
Association for its comments not later than June 30, 1984 the
results of the accounting and management study to be carried out
under Part B of the Project and to implement the recommendations
thereof promptly thereafter.
Section 3.07. In order to assist the Borrower in the indus-
trial energy conservation program to be carried out under Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) (i) maintain the Energy Monitoring Unit with powers,
duties and staffing satisfactory to the Associa-
tion;


﻿-7-
(ii) establish and thereafter maintain an Energy Con-
servation Coordination Group formed with repre-
sentatives of the public sector corporations,
energy-consuming industries and power plants and
representatives of the relevant ministries and
agencies of the Borrower, with functions and
powers satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) cause the public sector corporations and the industrial
plants included in Part C of the Project to appoint and maintain,
or to maintain, as the case may be, energy coordinators to be in
charge of the energy conservation activities in theii respective
corporations and plants.
Section 3.08. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall cause BUET to:
(a) make arrangements satisfactory to the Association with
a foreign research institution to offer BUET guidance in the
carrying out of Part E of the Project under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) exchange views with the said institution and to take
into account the comments made thereunder.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Part C
through E of the Project and of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out of such Parts.
(b) The Borrower shall cause BPC to maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of BPC.
(c) The Borrower shall, and shall cause BPC to respec-
tively: (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) and
(b) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by


﻿-8-
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, a certi-
fied copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as 'the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning said accounts, records and expenditures and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
(d) The Borrower shall cause BPC to furnish to the Associa-
tion not later than December 31, 1983, the audited financial
statements of its fiscal years 1980, 1981 and 1982.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall review and make adjust-
ments, at least once each year, to the ex-refinery and retail
prices of petroleum products to such extent as may be required to
ensure that sufficient revenues are generated by BPC in each
fiscal year to cover the full cost of the petroleum procurement,
processing and handling.
Section 4.03. In order to enable ERL to meet the require-
ments of Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement, the Borrower
shall, not later than June 30, 1984 determine which of the Bor-
rower's agencies, entities or bodies shall be responsible for
sezvicing ERL's long-term debt existing as of December 17, 1971
and outstanding on the date of such determination, and shall,
promptly thereafter, take measures for the allocation, if appli-
cable, and assumption of such debt pursuant to this Section.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ERL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ERL
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.


﻿-9-
(c) The Companies Act of 1913 shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of ERL to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ERL or BPC or for the suspension of their operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are speci-
fied pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ERL;
(b) that the Project Proforma has been approved by the
Borrower;
(c) that the project implementation coordinator and the
training manager have been appointed by ERL in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of the Project Agreement; arid
(d) that the Director of EMU has been appointed in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿- 10 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ERL, and is legally binding upon ERL in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ERL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and ERL in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date             /6 /9I/ q       is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sedtion 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.07 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the External
Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance and Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka
Bangladesh


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                        Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                         SETU 65886
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Authoriz;d Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment                 9,640,000          100% of foreign
for Part A of                               expenditures and
the Project                                 100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(2) Consultants'                                 100%
services:
(a) for Parts A,         7,510,000
B and C.1 of
the Project
(b) for Part C.2         1,670,000
of the Project
(c) for Part D           2,130,000
of the Project
(3) Equipment and               210,000          100% of foreign
training for                                expenditures
Part C.1 of the
Project
(4) Research and                370,000          100%
Development
(5) Training for Part A         600,000          100%
and B of the Project
(6) Unallocated               4,370,000
TOTAL              26,500,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) expenditures made under Category (2) (b) and Category
(3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until
the Energy Monitoring Unit referred to in Section 3.07 (a) (i) of
this Agreement has been staffed and the -Energy Conservation
Coordination Group referred to in Section 3.07 (a) (ii) of this
Agreement has been formed in a manner satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation; and
(c) expenditures made under Category (4) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the arrangements
referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement have been made.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures


﻿- 14 -
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Refinery Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of the facilities of ERL to restore their
mechanical integrity and increase capacity utilization through:
1.   Provision  of   replacement  equipment, materials    for
repairs and engineering services.
2.   Training of ERL staff.
3.   Identification  and  techno-economic   analysis  of  the
options for process modification to provide ERL
secondary   conversion  and   any  additional   refining
capacity that may be required to remove the imbalance
between ERL production and the demand for petroleum
fuels in the Borrower's territory.
4.   Detailed preparation of the option selected for imple-
mentation under Part A.3 above.
Part B:   Accounting and Management Systems of BPC
1.   Design and implementation of an improved accounting, control
and management information system for BPC and a system for
training and hiring of staff thereof.
2.   Overseas training of selected BPC's management staff.
Part C:   Energy Efficiency
1.   Provision of energy measuring equipment, staff training and
consultants' services to assist in the preparation and carrying
out of a long-term program of energy conservation in the Bor-
rower's industies.
2.   The carrying out of energy audits of industrial facilities
consuming about 1,000 metric tons of petroleum fuel per annum or
about 2,500 metric tons of oil equivalent per annum of natural
gas.


﻿- 16 -
Part D:   Studies of Gas-based Projects
1.   The carrying out of a study to identify the potential for
the export of natural gas and natural gas liquids or the use
thereof in chemical products industries and assessments of the
investment requirements therefor and the economic benefits there-
of.
2.   The carrying out of feasibility studies based on the recom-
mendations made in the study referred to in Part D.1 above.
Part E:   Research and Development
Assistance over a three year period for a research and
development program on the use of methanol in the Borrower's
territory.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare or cause to be
prepared and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and
in any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender or prequalification
documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general pro-
curement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower
shall provide or cause to be provided the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales
and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the. evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering goods manufactured     in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 19 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Proprietary items may be purchased by direct negotiations
with the established suppliers or manufacturers up to an aggre-
gate amount of $2,200,000 equivalent.
2.   Items estimated to cost less than $80,000 equivalent each
may be procured after soliciting at least three price quotations
from suppliers outside the Borrower's territory provided, how-
ever, that such procurement shall not exceed in the aggregate
$1,700,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 20 -
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be' inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each cortract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1983L.
FOR SECRETARY


