OFFICAL
CUMET RREDIT NUMBER /              BD
Proj ect Agreement
(Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
EASTERN REFINERY LIMITED
Dated                    /3         , 1983


﻿CREDIT WNBER /J4r BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          A   /   16          , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and EASTERN REFINERY LIMITED (hereinafter called
ERL).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-six million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 26,500,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that ERL agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ERL, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to ERL on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS ERL, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ERL shall carry out Part A of the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist ERL in carrying out Part A
of the Project, (a) ERL shall employ consultants and experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consul-
tants and experts to be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
(b) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, ERL shall not later than September 30, 1983, engage a
firm to provide, inter alia, maintenance, technical, process
engineering and refinery management advisory services.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for Part A of the Pro-
ject and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ERL undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and relent to it by the Bor-
rower for purposes of carrying out its Part of the Project
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by ERL to replace or repair such goods.
(b) ERL shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the purposes of its Part of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ERL shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) ERL shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-3-
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Part
A of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by ERL of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower, the Association may publish a des-
cription thereof, the name and nationality of the party to whom
the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) ERL shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of ERL and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.06. ERL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, ERL shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) ERL shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ERL shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by ERL of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ERL
Section 3.01. ERL shall: (a) carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,


﻿-4-
financial and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers; and
(b) without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, appoint and thereafter maintain in its plant
during the implementation of the Project, a project implementa-
tion coordinator and a training manager with functions, responsi-
bilities and qualifications satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. ERL shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, and
financial practices.
Section 3.03. ERL shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) ERL shall furnish to the Association for
its comments:
(i) not later than November 30, 1983 and before the
commencement of Part A.4 of the Project, the
results of the study to be carried out under Part
A.3 of the Project and the recommendations of the
Borrower, BPC and ERL thereto;
(ii) not later than December 31, 1983, the training
program to be carried out under Part A of the Pro-
ject and shall, promptly thereafter, carry out
such program taking into account the comments made
by the Association; and
(iii) not later than December 31, 1984, a five year
maintenance plan for its facilities and shall,
promptly thereafter, carry out such plan taking
into account the comments made by the Association.
(b) ERL shall cause the employees participating in the
training to be carried out under Part A of the Project to: (i)
provide, before the commencement of such training, assurances of
continued employment with ERL for not less than 5 years; and (ii)


﻿-5-
in case of noncompliance with the provisions of the preceding
paragraph, to compensate by paying the training costs incurred by
ERL.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ERL shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ERL shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(i) ERL shall, commencing in fiscal year 1987 and
thereafter, not incur any debt, if after the
incurrence of such debt the ratio of the aggregate
principal amount of debt of ERL then incurred and
outstanding to its equity would be greater than
65:35;
(ii) ERL shall in fiscal year 1987 achieve and there-
after maintain a ratio of current assets to cur-
rent liabilities (hereinafter referred to as the
current ratio) of at least 1.5:1;


﻿-6-
(iii) ERL shall not declare any dividend or make any
other distribution with respect to its capital or
make any prepayment of debt if such distribution
or prepayment shall reduce the current ratio below
1.5;
(iv) ERL shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable
forecast of the revenues and expenditures of ERL
shows that the projected internal cash generation
of ERL for each fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times
the projected debt service requirement of ERL in
such year on all debt of ERL including the debt to
be incurred; and
(v) Until the completion of Part A of the Project, ERL
shall not incur capital expenditures for fixed or
other non-current assets (other than those re-
quired for carrying out Part A of the Project and
for the maintenance thereof) in excess of an
aggregate amount of $5,000,000 equivalent.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ERL
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date of such con-
tract, agreement or instrument on the date, and to
the extent, the amount of such debt has become
outstanding pursuant to such contract, agreement
or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee agree-
ment, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(iii) The term    "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
reserves of ERL not allocated to cover specific
liabilities;


﻿-7-
(iv) The term    "current assets" means cash, accounts
receivable due within twelve months, marketable
securities, inventories convertible to saleable
goods within twelve months, pre-paid expenses
properly chargeable to operating expenses within
the next twelve months following the date in which
such pre-paid expenses were made, and all other
assets which could, in the ordinary course of
business, be converted into cash within twelve
months;
(v) The   term  "current liabilities" means accounts
payable within--twelve months, customer advances,
income taxes, dividends, bonuses and all other
liabilities (including debt) which, pursuant to
their terms, will become due and payable or could
under circumstances then existing be called for
payment within twelve months;
(vi)  The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by ERL in the fiscal year in which the
debt in question is to be incurred, which the
Association and the Borrower accept as reasonable
and as to which the Association has notified the
Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no
event has occurred since such notification which
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future
to have, a material adverse effect on the finan-
cial condition or future operating results of ERL;
(vii) The term "internal cash generation of ERL" means
gross revenues of ERL from all sources, less all
operating expenses of ERL including expenses
accountable to administration, maintenance and
taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), but before
provision for depreciation of assets and interest
and other charges on debt; and
(viii)  The term   "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sink-
ing fund payments, if any) of, and interest and
other charges on, debt.
(c) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower,


﻿- 8 -
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Asso-
ciation.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ERL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ERL of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter


﻿-9-
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ERL:
Eastern Refinery Limited
P.O. Box 35
North Patenga
Chittagong, Bangladesh
Cable address:                     Telex:
EASTERNOIL                         65 607 ERL BJ
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ERL may be taken or executed by the Chair-
man of ERL or such other person or persons as the Chairman of ERL
shall designate in writing, and ERL shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 10 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names i, -he District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the r4        and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  //          9   3tJ        6c7Qa
Regional Vice President
South Asia
EASTERN REFINERY LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the 16    L    day of
19 R.L.
FOR SECRETARY


