Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAI. 1'SE ONLY
Report No. 9374
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1462-CHA)
FEBRUARY 26, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Name of Currency   Yuan (Reminbi)
Rate of Exchange         Appraisal          US$1.00 = Y 2.0
1985              US$1.00 = Y 2.9
1986              US$1.00 = Y 3.2
1987              US$1.00 = Y 3.7
1989              US$1.00 - Y 4.7
1990              US$1.00   Y 5.2
Fiscal Year of Borrower : July 1 - June 30
Weights and Measures : Metric System
1 Meter (m)              =     3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer              =     0.62 Mile
1 Hectare (ha)                 2.47 Acrea
=     15 Mu
1 Kilogram (kg)          =     2.2 Pounds (lb)
=     2 Chinese Jin
1 Ton (t)                =     1,000 Kg
-     2,205 lb
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ABC         -      Agricultural Bank of China
BOC         -      Bank of China
PBC         -      People's Bank of China
CIB         -      China Investment Bank
Guangxi     -      Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
MOF          -     Ministry of Finance
MAAF         -     Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries
PMC         -      Project Management Committee
PMO         -      Project Management Office
PO          -      Project Office
PU          -      Project Unit
RCI         -      Rural Credit I Project (CR 1462-CHA)
SMCs        -      Supply and Marketing Cooperatives
RCCs        -      Rural Credit Cooperatives



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
OlKie d Ovednw.Cefea
Optatmm Ev1wakIMn
February 26, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on CHINA
Rural Credit Project (Credit 1462-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on China - Rural Credit Project (Credit 1462-CHA)w
prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed
by the Borrower.   This project has not been audited by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMLPITION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1462-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .         ...............................................................  i
Evaluation Summary   .................................................... iii
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .                                                                  1
Background .........              .      .    .........................             1
Project Objectives and Description.                                                 2
Project Design and Organization.                                                    3
Project Implementation.                                                             4
Project Results.                                                                    6
Project Sustainability.                                                             7
Project Impact.                                                                     8
IDA Performance.                                                                    9
Borrower Performance   ...........              ...........................    10
Experience and Lessons Learned   .......                 .....................    11
Project Documentation and Data   .......                 .....................    12
Conclusions and Recommendations   ......                 .....................    12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
General ..................................................  15
Project Preparation    ...........              ...........................    15
Project Implementation    .........               ..........................    16
Project Results    .          .........................................    18
Bank Performance   .          .........................................    19
Borrower Performance    ..........              ...........................    21
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1.   Related Bank Loans and Credits  .....                  ..............    23
TABLE 2.   Project Timetable   ........               .......................    24
TABLE 3.   Loan/Credit Disbursements  ......                 ..................    25
TABLE 4.   Project Implementation   ......                 ....................    26
TABLE 5.   Project Costs   .........              ..........................    27
Table 6.   Project Financing  ........               ........................    28
TABLE 7.   Direct Benefits  .........              .........................    29
Table 8.   Economic and Financial Rates of Return  ....                  .......    30
TABLE 9.   Financial Impact  ........               .........................    31
TABLE 10. Status of Covenants  .......                .......................    32
Table 11.  Staff Inputs   ..........             ..........................        33
Table ;2. Bank Missions  ..........              ..........................        34
Annex 1        Guangxi Agricultural Sector:  Background Information   .......                      35
MAP - IBRD 17483R2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
CHI"
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1462-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rural Credit Project
(RC) in China, for which Credit 1462-CHA in the amount of SDR47.2 million
(US$50 million) was approved on April 24, 1984. The credit was fully
disbursed and closed on June 30, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agricultural Division of the China
Department of the Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
The PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit
and the Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and a field completion mission
conducted in March, 1990.



- ili -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINK
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1462-CRA)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
The Rural Credit Project (RCI) covered by this PCR was the first rural
credit operation in China supported by the Bank Group. The project evolved
from interest and support by national and Guangxi regional government to
develop one of the poorest provinces in China. The main objectives of the
project were to support a three-year lending program of the Guangxi Branch of
the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) for development of orchard and other tree
crops, aquaculture, livestock and agroprocessing. The project also assisted
ABC in developing and improving its capacity to prepare, appraise, implement
and supervise agricultural and rural development projects. The project aimed
to increase rural employment opportunities to fully utilize the ample rural
labor force; help alleviate rural poverty; increase value-added of
agricultural production; improve production efficiency; and increase the
supply and quality of agricultural products, including processed foods, to
consumers.
ImRlementation ExRerience
Implementation of the project far exceeded the appraisal estimate (para.
5.3, Part III Table 4,7). With the exception of a few minor cases, all civil
works, procurement of equipment and materials, and plantation works were
satisfactorily carried out and no major delay was experienced. In fact, many
of the sub-projects were implemented ahead of schedule resulting in rapid
disbursement and completion of the project six months in advance.
Devaluation of the Yuan during the project implementation period had an
unexpected consequence (Para.5.l). The devaluation nearly G3ubled the IDA
contribution of US$50 million in local currency from Y100 million to Y193
million. As IDA's disbursement percentage of 35% was maintained, the total
project investment size increased from Y285 million at appraisal to Y614
million at completion and local financing from Y185 million to Y421 million.
This change led to a rapid expansion of physical scales of all sub-components,
particularly citrus. With this change, the project was able to increase its
impact by more than twofold than originally anticipated at appraisal but it
also created unexpected side-effects (para.5.4). Due to a lack of staffing
and previous experience handling large numbers of loans in a relatively short
period, some marginal quality sub-projects were also included in the project.
As size of local financing also increased, a large increase in demand for



- iv -
local funds put ABC under resource constraints and consequently inadequate
working capital loans were made (para.5.5).
A technical assistance and training component aimed at strengthening
operations of ABC was successfully completed.  Project funds were provided for
training of technical and managerial staff, technical experts to assist in
developing a plan for an improved information and monitoring system, and
project economic and financial analysis. The project also provided for
overseas study tours and a local training program in auditing, monitoring and
project appraisal with the help of short-term foreign consultants. EDI
training of ABC staff in China on project appraisal was also a big success
with 120 ABC staff nationwide participating. To date, a total of 11,243 ABC
staff nationwide were trained by GCtangxi ABC staff, extending the training
beyond IDA assisted projects.
Under the project, Guangxi ABC introduced the Proiect Appraisal Manual
with assistance of IDA. Some 150,000 copies of the Manual have been printed
in Chinese for distribution to all ABC offices involved in project appraisal
work throughout China. ABC continues to use this manual in its national
training and Guangxi ABC and the ABC Headquarters staff's experience in
project management was later extended to preparation and appraisal of sub-
projects under the later Rural Credit Projects II, II: and IV.
Project Results
The project has made a significant contribution to the Region's economy
through increased production, employment and income generation, and
improvement of Guangxi ABC's institutional development. The project was fully
disbursed in June 1988, about six months ahead of schedule. The Project has
far exceeded the appraisal targets both in terms of physical scale and
geographical coverage (para.6.1,8.1). Repayment of some of the earlier loans
has already begun. Subloan collection performance so far has exceeded the
planned target.
Rates of Return
The project economic and financial rates of return at appraisal were
reestimated for the PCR. The overall economic performance of the project is
generally consistent with the SAR projection, with minor variations. At
appraisal, the overall economic rate of return of the project was estimated to
be 27%. At completion, the reestimated ERR declined but still remained solid
at 20% (Para.6.2 and Part III, Table 8). The financial rates of return at
appraisal and at completion are very close at around 25% showing healthy
financial flows.
Project Sustainabilitv
The project is likely to be sustainable (para.7.1-7.2). This conclusion
is based on the generally sound sub-project selection, institutional and
managerial capacity of ABC, and a reasonable domestic market prospect based on
the current macroeconomic growth projection. While there are no serious risks
at the present time, the project would face some difficulties with the



- v -
softening of markets for some of the project's products. In order to ensure
that all components of the project would be sustainable, ABC agreed to
actively support market development, product quality improvement and efficient
management. To reduce the potential market risk, the PCR mission obtained an
assurance and firm commitments from ABC that the recycled funds from the
initial round of project financing would be used mainly for supporting and
improving existing operations.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The project provided the following valuable experience and lessons to
ABC as well as IDA for preparation of similar projects.
(a)   A project management office (PMO) staffed with qualified and motivated
personnel is essential for success of the project.
(b)   The project illustrates an unexpected effect of devaluation on
increasing the size of the project. The rapid expansion of physical scale and
the number of sub-projects has created shortage of funds and staffing
problems.
(c)   The project was originally designed with an indicative investment
program showing specific sub-sectors and investment funds allocated to them.
The final result of the RC project at completion differs from that appraised
mainly due to changes in market conditions, availability of inputs and other
technical reasons. The lesson for both the borrower and IDA is that a credit
project should have the maximum flexibility built in so that it can quickly
respond to changes affecting sub-projects.
(d)   IDA's presence served as a vehicle of policy dialogue with the
Government on some key issues, namely interest spreads, ABC lending rates to
maintain an adequate margin of operation, and the Government bearing foreign
exchange risk. In addition, IDA played an important role to increase support
for individual households relative to state farms and state enterprises.
(e) More transparent guidelines on sub-projects approval beyond economic and
financial criteria could have prevented approval of some marginal sub-projects
with inappropriate technology, weak management, poor design and environmental
practice.
(f)   Good management is the key to each sub-project's success and should
receive more attention during the sub-project selection process.
(g)   The project should be a part of the integrated Regional (provincial)
development plan to limit over-expansion, prevent shortage of inputs and labor
force, coordinate local funds mobilization, and set consistent priorities for
the Regional development program.
(h)   In addition to ABC's own su-ervis!on, timelv stinervision bv IDA
during implementation was an important support to the borrower and avoided
potential problems. ABC, while generally satisfied with the supervision
provided by IDA, felt that more supervision in terms of frequency and staff
inputs would have been more beneficial.



PART 1
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Completion Report
1.    ProJect Identity
Project Name             Rural Credit Project (RCI)
Credit No.         :     1462-CHA
RVP Unit           :    Asia
Country            :     China
Sector             :    Agriculture
Subsector          :     Rural Credit
2.    Background
2.1         Agriculture has been a high priority sector of the Chinese
economy, which has achieved impressive growth of over 7% p.a. in real terms
during the period of 1980-1988. China's agriculture including crops,
livestock, forestry and fisheries provides sustenance to over one billion
people and is a major source of income for some 190 million farm families
while contributing about 30% to the country's GDP. Since only about 14% of
China's 960 million ha are arable, farming systems are intensive with large
inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizer, and water. Nearly half of
the arable land is irrigated. This intensive food production system has
allowed China to meet the basic food requirements of its population(about 22%
of the world's total) from less than 11% of the world's arable land.
2.2         Given China's shortage of arable land, the government's long-term
objectives for the agricultural sector have been to increase the productivity
of existing cropped areas and maximize efficient development of the remaining
unutilized land. At the same time, efforts are being made to increase
production and quality of animal feed, livestock, fruit and industrial crops,
and to promote agroprocessing to raise value-added to what traditionally has
been sold as raw materials. In developing agroindustries, the Government
emphasizes upgrading of technology appropriate for domestic and export
markets, promotion of efficient use of by-products, protection of the
environment and creation of non-farming jobs in rural areas to increase and
sustain rural incomes and to help alleviate poverty and narrow inter and intra
regional income disparities.
11 This report is based on the findings of the PCR mission in March 1990.
Members of the mission were Ms. Hoonae Kim (AS3AG) and Mr. Christer Cronberg
(consultant).



2
2.3         The Rural Credit Project (RCI)91 was conceptualized in support of
the Government's efforts to raise and diversify agricultural production
through more efficient use of land, water and labor resources, and improvement
of the credit system. As a part of the overall program of economic reform
which began in 1979, the Government has been increasing the role and autonomy
of the banking system and making more use of credit instead of grants financed
by the Governmeat as a means of improving investment efficiency. The
Government's encouragement of individual and collective households and
enterprises through expanding the area of privately managed plots and
increasing use of the production responsibility system has also led to rapid
expansion of credit demand from the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC).
2.4         ABC is the major source of credit for agricultural and rural
development in China. It has a wide network of offices which serve
households, collectives and state enterprises throughout the rural areas of
China. Before the RCI project, ABC had little experience dealing with foreign
financial institutions and lacked understanding of technical, financial and
economic analysis of development projects. ABC's lending for such projects
also has been constrained by the limited availability of long-term funds. The
Bank Group's involvement in the RCI project enabled ABC to expand its medium
and long-term loan programs. In addition, it has assisted ABC in enhaacing
its project appraisal capabilities by developing and implemeating improved
procedures and methodology for appraising agricultural development projects,
and in improving its internal operation.
2.5         Given ABC staff's limited experience in project appraisal, to
facilitate a successful implementation of its initial credit project with IDA
financing, ABC in consultation with IDA decided to limit the geographical
scope of the project to Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (Guangxi) in
Southeast China, with a population of 41 million. Guangxi was chosen because
it was in a poor area with numerous minorities (i.e. the eighth poorest
province in China) and alleviation of rural poverty in such an area was a
priority of the Government; climatic and soil conditions in Guangxi were
suitable for growing a wide range of crops; the Guangxi Government put forward
strong support for the project and included it in the Regional Development
Plan; and the Guangxi ABC and technical departments in the Region were keenly
interested in the project.
3.    Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1         The project was designed to provide funds to sub-borrowers to
finance investments for development of orchard and other tree crops,
aquaculture, livestock and agroprocessing to diversify the Guangxi Autonomous
Region's agriculture. The main objectives of the project were to support a
three-year lending program of ABC and to assist ABC in developing and
improving its capacity to prepare, appraise, implement and supervise
agricultural and rural development projects. The project also aimed to
21 The first of four Rural Credit Projects assisted by the Bank Group in
China. The most recent one, the Fourth Rural Credit Project (RCIV), was
approved by the Board on October 30, 1990.



3
increase rural employment opportunities to fully utilize the ample rural labor
force; help alleviate rural poverty; increase value-added of agricultural
production; improve production efficiency; and increase the supply and quality
of agricultural products, including processed foods, to consumers.
3.2         The project, covering all 11 municipalities and 12 autonomous
counties (equivalent to prefectures) in the Guangxi Autonomous Region, was
jointly prepared by IDA/IFAD in April/May 1983 and appraised in September
19832'. At appraisal, the project had 5 components: (i) establishment and
improvement of 9,000 ha of citrus orchard - citrus, pomelo, litchi and longan
and establishment of 9,600 ha of other tree crops - anise, cassia, and
eucalyptus and camphor; (ii) establishment of 3,000 ha of fishpond and
development of marine fisheries including shrimp and pearls; (iii) development
of cattle, poultry and pigs including livestock breeding; (iv) construction
and equipping of processing plants for cassava starch, essential oils, animal
feed, fish and pearl; and (v) provision of technical assistance to strengthen
the operations of ABC.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1         Initially the project was designed with already pre-determine1
subsectoral dstribution of the project investment funds. This was the result
of the tradition of allocating credit according to Government and ABC
priorities. This credit allocation practice involving various authorities is
embedded in the nation-wide financial system and will not realistically be
changed in the near future. IDA has repeatedly voiced its concern that pre-
allocation of investment funds without flexibility to change would undermine
market forces as the main determinant of future investment.
4.2         This concern, however, did not undermine the potential benefits of
carefully appraised and technically sound sub-projects selected with the
assistance of the IDA appraisal mission and respective technical bureaus.
Provided that flexibility to change the allocation in the event of
unforeseeable changes is allowed, a priori subsectoral distribution of project
funds need not necessarily lead to rigid and inefficient allocation of
resources. Furthermore, IDA's initial concern was somewhat mitigated by the
fact that during the project implementation period, not only have the project
scales and investment funds been drastically changed but- also the relative
distribution of funds to different sub-sectors. At appraisal, crop
investments represented about 55% of the project costs, with aquaculture 21%,
livestock 15%, agroprocessing 8% and technical assistance 1%. Being a credit
project, as expected, sub-sectoral redistribution of the funds has happened.
At project completion, the relative shares of different components were crops
62%, aquaculture 13%, livestock 9%, agroprocessing 15% and technical
assistance less than 1%. ABC confirmed that the main reasons behind such
changes were changes in market conditions as the primary reason and the
31 The project concept was initially formulated as one credit project for
Guangxi and Hubei provinces to be jointly assisted by IDA and IFAD. After
initial reviews, it was decided to have two separate credit projects, Rural
Credit Project (RCI) in Guangxi Autonomous Region assisted by IDA and IFAD
Credit project assisted by IFAD in Hubei Province.



4
changes in iegional development priorities as the secondary reason.  Each sub-
project was selected on the basis of sound firtancial and economic results and
each sub-borrower is responsible for his/her own profit- and losses.
4.3         A critical agreement was reached at negotiations which shifted the
foreign exchange risk of borrowing IDA credit from ABC to the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). The rationale behind such decision was that the IDA credit was
lent to MOF in foreign currencies which in turn disbursed to ABC in local
currency. Therefore, ABC was not using foreign exchange and should not bear
the risk of exchan6e rate fluctuations.
4.4         Primary responsibilities for project implementation and management
were given to Guangxi ABC under the overall supervision of the ABC
Headquarters. A total of 444 ABC offices with 936 staff in Guangxi have been
fully engaged in management of the IDA credits. Various technical bureaus at
the Regional, prefecture and county levels have been providing assistance to
ABC for project preparation, appraisal and supervision. An International
Department dealing with foreign funds was created at Guangxi ABC, to which,
the World Bank Project Management Office (PMO) belongs.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         Implementation of all components of the project far exceeded the
appraisal estimate in terms of the physical scales and the average size and
the number of subloans. With the exception of a few minor cases, all civil
works, procurement of equipment and materials, and plantation works were
satisfactorily carried out. No major delay was experienced. In fact, many of
the sub-projects were implemented ahead of schedule resulting in rapid
disbursement and completion of the project six months in advance. Rapid
investment expansion was triggered by bullish demand growth and rising trends
of market prices.
5.2         Devaluation of the Yuan had an unexpected consequence.  During the
project implementation period (1984-1989), China devalued 3 times. At the
time of the appraisal, the exchange rate was Y2 to US$, which was devalued to
Y3.71 to US$ at the time of completion. The devaluation nearly doubled the
IDA contribution of US$50million 4/ in local currency from Y100 million to
Y193 million. Instead of changing IDA's disbursement ratio, ABC increased the
total project investment size from Y285 million at appraisal to Y614 million
at completion. The original IDA contribution of US$50 million and IDA's 35%
disbursement ratio were maintained and local financing increased from Y185
million at appraisal to Y421 million, 2.3 times the appraisal estimate.
5.3         As increase in unit investment costs of the sub-projects was not
large enough to absorb the larger investment funus, it led to a rapid
expansion of physical scales of all sub-components. At appraisal, the project
included 9,000 ha of citrus comprising orange, pomelo, litchi and longan,
which at completion was expanded to 28,400 ha. The area planted with other
tree crops - star anise, cassava and eucalyptus-increased from 9,600 ha to
42,000 ha and tea, aniseed and fir trees were added. Freshwater fishery ponds
41 SDR47.2 million equivalent at appraisal.



5
of 3,000 ha at appraisal increased to 4,800 ha and the number of
agroprocessing sub-projects increased from 12 to 169. Similarly, the number
of livestock (cattle, poultry and pig) all increased from the appraisal
figures.
5.4         With this change, the project was able to increase its impact by
more than twofold than originally anticipated at appraisal but it also created
unexpected side-effects. ABC staff were not equipped to handle such a huge
increase in the investment portfolio and the large number of sub-projects.
Although the majority of sub-projects was still well screened and chosen based
on sound technical, economic and financial criteria, due to a lack of staffing
and previous experience handling large numbers of loans in a relatively short
period, some marginal quality sub-projects were also included in the project.
On average, only about three to four days were spent for evaluation of a sub-
loan, which was hardly adequate and super-ision follow-up were also limited.
As a result, selection of project sites was occasionally compromised and as
demand for inputs also increased, a supply shortage of good quality and virus
free seee.lings, organic and chemical fertilizer and agrochemicals was
experienced.
5.5         As size of local financing also increased, a large increase in
demand for local funds put ABC under increased resource constraints
(para.5.2). As Guangxi ABC was subject to the ABC Headquarters and the
Government's annual credit plan, it experienced a shortage of local funds and
consequently inadequate working capital loans were made. This situation was
further aggravated by the nation-wide contraction of money supply to reduce
rising inflation during the second half of the project implementation period.
ABC's philosophy has always been to use the IDA credit only for long-term
fixed investment. While there is a rationale for using a long-term IDA credit
for such investment, a lack of local funds forced ABC to forego, in some
cases, provision of critically needed working capital to purchase fertilizer
and agrochemicals. IDA supervision has requested ABC to include (for
financing under the project) working capital during the gestation periods for
tree crops and other operations which would not generate revenue for a few
years. This request was only partially met.
5.6         There appears to have been a general misunderstanding between the
borrower-end IDA that a possible alternative to increase in the size of the
project was overlooked. .he borrower, after recognizing the excessive
pressure on staffing, local funds and marketing of commodities resulting from
too rapid expansion of some of the components, has requested a change of IDA
disbursement percentage for subsequent rural credit projects which IDA has
financed to avoid similar situations.A'
51 This point was discussed at a briefing meeting with ABC and MOF
officials at the end of the PCR mission in Beijing. Both ABC and MOF
representatives voiced their wish to amend the IDA disbursement ratio for RC
III project. They felt that RCII project is already near its completion and
is probably too late to change the IDA disbursement ratio to have any real
impact.



6
5.7         The main bulk of the IDA funds was used for local costs.  This
project was ABC's first dealing with a foreign financial institution. Up
until the RCI project, ABC was mainly financing local costs. At appraisal,
about 11% of the project cost was identified as foreign cost but in reality,
very little direct foreign cost was incurred by sub-borrowers. Indirect
import of fertilizer and agrozhemicals, which national agencies imported and
the sub-borrowers bought from the state Supply and Marketing Cooperatives
(SMCs) amounted to US$4 million equivalent or 3% of the total project cost.
An insignificant amount of equipment was imported. Local equipment purchased
under the project was generally acceptable but some agroprocessing equipment
used in the projects was rudimentary and lacked efficiency. Therefore,
transfer of technology which the project strived for was somewhat undermined
and the project's contribution in technological upgrading might be less than
originally anticipated. In general, a tendency to rely on local technologies
and management styles has always been common in China. During the project
implementation, as environmental issues became more evident, increased
emphasis were placed on proper environmental management of sub-projects such
as waste treatment and pollution control for agroindustries, appropriate
application and disposal of pesticides, and improved water exchange channels
for fish ponds.
5.8         A technical assistance and training component aimed at
strengthening operations of ABC was included in the project. Project funds
were to be used mainly for training of technical and managerial staff,
technical experts to assist in developing a plan for an improved information
and monitoring system, and project economic and financial analysis. The
project also provided for overseas study tours and a local training program in
auditing, monitoring and project appraisal with the help of short-term foreign
consultants. The US$0.5 million allocated for this purpose was almost fully
utilized with the exception of a small training fund to hire foreign
consultants. Study tours were completed and the domestic training program was
successfully carried out and still continues. EDI training of ABC staff in
China on project appraisal was also a success with 120 ABC staff nationwide
participating. Unused funds were used for upgrading office equipment with
IDA's agreement.
5.9         Under the project, Guangxi ABC introduced the Proiect Appraisal
Manual with assistance of IDA. Some 150,000 copies of the Manual have been
printed in Chinese for distribution to all ABC offices involved in project
appraisal work throughout China. ABC continues to use this manual in its
national training. As Guangxi ABC and the ABC Headquarters staff gained
considerable experience in project management, their experience from
implementing the RCI project was later applied to preparation and appraisal of
sub-projects under the later Rural Credit Projects II, III and IV. Guangxi
ABC staff has continued to play a leading role in training other ABC staff
involved in IDA assisted projects.
6.    Project Results
6.1         The IDA supervision and PCR missions confirm that the project has
made a significant contribution to the Region's economy through increased
production, employment and income generation, and improvement of Guangxi ABC's
institutional development. The project was fully disbursed in June 1988,



7
about six months ahead of schedule. The Project has far exceeded the
appraisal targets both in terms of physical scale and geographical coverage.
Repayment of some of the earlier loans has already begun. Subloan collection
performance so far has exceeded the planned target and is far better than the
repayment rate of lending outside of the RCI project. As of end 1989, the
actual cumulative repayment was at 125% of the planned level, with crops and
aquaculture at 135% and 140%, followed by livestock at 115% and agroprocessing
at 94%. It is expected that repayment will continue at a rate exceeding the
planned target rate.
6.2         Rates of Return 61 The project economic and financial rates of
return at appraisal were reestimated for the PCR. The overall economic
performance of the project is generally consistent with the SAR projection,
with minor variations. A direct comparison of all sub-components was not
possible due to lack of data.   Random samples were selected and economic and
financial rates of return were reestimated. Rates of return presented are
based on the PCR mission's analysis. ABC also reestimated ERR and FRR for the
PCR, which appeared to be somewhat optimistic and contained some errors. At
appraisal, the overall economic rate of return of the project was estimated to
be 27%. At completion, the reestimated ERRs for different sub-components
range from 17% to 26% with the still solid overall average of 20% for the
project (Part III, Table 8). The main reasons for the decrease of the overall
ERR are the increase in international prices of major inputs, namely
fertilizer, and decrease in international prices of some of the main products.
The financial rates of return at appraisal and at completion are very close at
around 25% showing healthy financial flows.
7.    Proiect Sustainability
7.1         At present assessment, the project is likely to be sustainable.
This conclusion is based on the generally sound sub-project selection,
institutional and managerial capacity of ABC, and a reasonable domestic market
prospect based on the current macroeconomic growth projection. However, the
project's continuous sustainability will largely depend on how working capital
will be made available to the existing operations and how the commodities
future markets will behave. While there are no serious risks at the present
time, the project would face some difficulties with the softening of citrus,
poultry and duck markets, and to lesser extent, pig and cattle markets. Some
agroprocessing sub-projects are facing a shortage of working capital which
prevents timely procurement of raw materials. In order to ensure that all
components of the project would be sustainable, ABC agreed to actively support
market development, product quality improvement and efficient management.
6/ Rates of return were reestimated based on information gathered during
the PCR mission in March 1990. A random sample of a representative case of
each main category of investment was made and economic and financial analysis
were carried out based on 1990 constant prices. All historical cash flows
were adjusted usr.g the actual inflation and converted into economic values
using appropriate conversion factors. Details of the analysis are available
in the project file.



8
7.2         To reduce the potential market risk, the PCR mission obtained an
assurance and firm commitments from ABC that the recycled funds from the
initial round of project financing would be used mainly for supporting and
improving existing operations. In particular, it was agreed that expansion of
citrus area will be strictly forbidden until citrus market conditions improve.
Faced with a softening of the citrus market in Guangxi and the potential
competition from neighboring citrus producing provinces, Guangxi ABC, with the
help of the Guangxi Autonomous Region Government, will focus on improving
post-harvest facilities of citrus and other crops to enhance product quality
and minimize losses. Efforts will be made to expand distribution and
transportation networks and improve efficiency to handle incremental
throughput. While this issue is beyond ABC's capacity to address, the
Government also recognizes the importance of the post-harvest system for the
sustainability of the project. Hence, ABC will request for the Government's
assistance in improving the present situation.
8.    Project ImRact
8.1         The actual project physical scale surpassed that estimated at
appraisal and the potential impact of the project on production, income and
employment generation and poverty alleviation would be much greater than
originally estimated (Part III Table 4 and Table 7). The 94,400 households
already benefited by the project surpassed 90,000, the number estimated at
appraisal and is expected to reach 198,000 at full development. Employment
generation is also expected to increase from 75,000 full-time jobs at
appraisal to 384,000 at full development. The project has already created and
will continue to create considerable impact within and outside the project
areas in terms of technology, institutional building and enhancement of local
socio-economic environments. Through 1,240 sub-projects financed,Z' the
project had varying degrees of impact in different subsectors. The citrus
areas financed under the RCI project constitute 22% of the region's total.
However, during the project implementation period of 1984-89, the entire
incremental citrus planted in Guangxi was funded under the project.
Therefore, the impact of the RCI project on Guangxi's citrus sector
development has been quite substantial. Other sub-sectors where the project
also has made substantial impacW.. are production of pomelo, star anise if and
marine products and establishment of feedmills, cold storage and starch
processing capacity.
8.2         The project helped to strengthen the links between technical
bureaus of the Government and the main credit institution. Regular dialogue
and continuous support by technical bureaus facilitated selection and
maintenance of technically sound sub-projects. More sub-borrowers are using
increased quantities and improved formulas of chemical fertilizers, better
seed and varieties, and more effective irrigation systems while practicing
better orchard management and animal husbandry. In addition, the project
71 Sub-project here means a group of individuals borrowing for the same
type of investment in the same location.
Al Star anise is an herb whose seeds (i.e.aniseed) are often used as a
flavoring in liqueurs and in cooking.



9
raised the borrower's consciousness for environmental protection and increased
sub-borrowers' accountability on their own profits and losses, hence, moving
towards more commercially oriented operations.
9.    IDA Performance
9.1         As the first operation with ABC in China, the project was a
learning experience both for IDA and ABC. The Project required an intensive
effort both in terms of project preparation and appraisal and familiarizing
ABC staff with IDA lending operations, the project cycle, project
implementation and management, monitoring and supervision and the overall
development objectives of IDA projects. During this first effort, IDA has
successfully assisted ABC throughout project implementation and has
established a long-term relationship with one of the most important financial
institutions in China. This good relationship with the borrower continues
with successive rural credit projects IDA has assisted in China. ABC staff
frequently express their gratitude towards IDA for its help in developing kBC
into a more international and commercially oriented financial institution.
Furthermore, ABC Provincial Branches nationwide consider it an honor to be
included in IDA Credit Projects. This observation, rather than self-
gratifying, is genuine evidence of a carefully nurtured relationship based on
mutual respect and professionalism which withstood occasional difficulties
originating from different views and priorities.
9.2         IDA carried out a total of five supervision missions-four in the
field and one in Beijing- between 1984 and 1988. The last field mission was
in December 1987. ABC, while generally satisfied with the supervision
provided by IDA, felt that more supervision by IDA in terms of frequency and
staff inputs would have been more beneficial. Earlier supervision focused on
selection of sub-projects with sound technical basis. Noticing a large
expansion of citrus area, supervision missions repeatedly stressed that the
citrus area should not be expanded any more. While this message was
understood by ABC, as senior managers of Guangxi ABC admitted, it was already
too late to control the expansion as farmers, buoyed by shortage of citrus in
the market and rising prices, continued to invest in citrus expansion.
Notwithstanding this unexpected shortcoming, supervision missions witnessed in
southern Guangxi, "Yellow Shoot" virus infection in selected orchards. The
supervision mission successfully convinced farmers to cut and burn the trees
to prevent further spread of the disease. This was philosophically difficult
for farmers to do and they put up strong resistance. ABC and IDA were able to
convince the farmers and minimized the risk of potentially detrimental
consequence. In addition, an extensive study of citrus planting was carried
out per request of IDA and the borrower perceived the study's main findings as
an important contribution to mitigate some of the existing problems and
improve orchard conditions.
9.3         Due to a wide geographical coverage of sub-projects, IDA
supervision missions, in some cases, were not able to witness poorly
implemented operations. As lower level ABC offices, i.e. county levels, had
supervision responsibilities, both IDA and Guangxi Provincial ABC were unaware
of some of the problems. Examples of problems which could have been corrected
with more intensive supervision were drainage of polluted water to rivers from
fish ponds, pond seepage problems, lack of water quality testing in oyster and



10
other shellfish farming, inappropriate use of machinery and equipment, low
utilization rates of equipment, unhygienic conditions of poultry housing,
management problems of sub-optimal feed conversion due to incorrect feed
formulations and feeding practice, excessive density of citrus planting as
high as 200 trees per mu versus an optimal 50 trees per mu, etc.   Despite
such problems, which are few, the overall project is progressing
satisfactorily.
10.   Borrower Performance
10.1        Considering the large number of sub-projects, vast area coverage,
and lack of prior experience with IDA projects, ABC performed well using IDA
funds in their first credit project in China. The main factors underpinning
their success were commitment and enthusiasm shown at all levels of the
project offices and staff expertise and experience developed during the
project implementation period. Another factor would be the frank dialogues
between ABC and IDA acknowledging problems and jointly seeking solutions. On
its own initiative with support of the ABC headquarters, Guangxi ABC has taken
a leading role in training ABC staff nationwide. Guangxi ABC International
Department staff are first class and their understanding of IDA procedure and
project analysis is impressive. This knowledge, with further help of IDA,
could be extended to other staff of ABC. To date, a total of 11,243 ABC staff
were trained by Guangxi ABC staff, not only those involved in IDA assisted
projects but also staff who are not directly involved. ABC hopes for IDA's
continuous assistance and support for staff training.
10.2        As stated, a rapid expansion of the physical scale of the project
and limited staffing led ABC to occasionally approving sub-optimal project
proposals.  While the vertical integration of ABC management with
decentralized decision making enhanced the autonomy of lower level ABC
offices, a lack of coordination and follow-up between lower level ABCs and the
provincial branch resulted in some of the problematic sub-projects going
unchecked. While systematic and regular supervision requirements exist, the
provincial ABC should improve follow-up mechanisms on all sub-projects with
identified issues and problems and require the lower level ABC offices to
notify the provincial branch of apprL.riate actions.
10.3        Guangxi ABC continues to face a shortage of local funds.  Being
subject to the Government's annual credit plan and unable to determine
interest rates and spread according to market conditions, ABC has defaulted
until recently in meeting the conditionalities on charging subloans the
prevailing interest rates for other similar ABC loans and maintaining a 2%
interest spread.21 Both of these conditionalities were finally complied with
when ABC increased the interest rates on IDA assisted subloans in September 1,
1989. IDA has repeatedly stressed that ABC should charge the prevailing
interest rates to IDA subloans. IDA's such efforts led to increase of
interest rates on IDA assisted subloans from 5.04% at appraisal to 6.3% in
1987, to 9.0% in 1988 and again to 11.34% in February 1989. Since ABC does
not have autonomy to set own interest rates on deposits and loans, a
9/ Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (c) and Part B of the Schedule, and
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02.



11
continuous compliance with these covenants is basically outside of ABC's
control. Rather, it is a financial sector-wide issue. These financial issues
are currently being discussed between the Bank and the Chinese Government,
which would hopefully result in rationalizing interest setting mechanisms.
11.   Experience and Lessons Learned
11.1        The project provided the following valuable experience and lessons
to ABC as well as IDA for preparation of similar projects.
(a)   A project management office (PMO) staffed with qualified and motivated
personnel is essential for success of the project. A full time management
system is required to coordinate all project related issues at all levels. A
good communication and follow-up system is required among PMOs to maintain
consistent quality standards among all sub-projects.
(b)   The project illustrates an unexpected effect of devaluation on
increasing the size of the project (para.5.2). The rapid expansion of scale
has put excessive pressure on mobilizing local counterpart funds and as a
result, funds for making working capital loans were severely limited.
Potential solutions may have been (i) to increase the IDA disbursement ratio
without changing the IDA contribution so that the total project size in local
currency could have been contained to a more manageable one. This, however,
could undermine the argument that the borrower should bear a substantial share
of financial risk; and/or (ii) to extend the implementation period and slow
the rate of disbursements. This may be undesirable, especially from ABC's
point of view, as ABC seems to prefer quick disbursement of IDA funds.
(c)   The project was originally designed with predetermined specific sub-
sectors and investment funds allocated to them. However, when technologies
and market conditions are constantly changing, the predictive capabilities of
project appraisal models in terms of desirable subloan allocation, are
relatively low. With this principle, many Bank credit projects are moving
towards providing credit without specifying sub-sectors and the amounts to be
allocated. The final result of the RCI project at completion also differs
from that appraised mainly due to changes in market conditions, availability
of inputs and other technical reasons. While ABC made some changes, it felt
constrained by the initial allocation of funds to different sub-sectors. More
explicit understanding between IDA and the borrower that a credit project
should have the maximum flexibility built in for quick response to changes
affecting sub-projects, therefore, could have been beneficial.
(d)   IDA's presence served as a vehicle of policy dialogue with the
Government on some key issues, namely interest spreads, ABC lending rates to
maintain an adequate margin of operation, and the Government bearing foreign
exchange risk. In addition, IDA played an important role to increase support
for individual households relative to state farms and state enterprises. This
is an on-going effort for other rural credit projects as well.
(e)   More transparent guidelines on sub-projects approval beyond economic and
financial criteria could have prevented approving sub-projects with
inappropriate technology, weak management, and poor design and environmental
practice. During implementation of RCII and RCIII projects, the technical,



12
managerial and environmental guidelines for sub-project selections were
clarified and strengthened.
(f)   Good management is the key to each sub-project's success and should
receive more attention during the sub-project selection process. This is
particularly relevant when market conditions are weakening as is now the case
in Guangxi. Even in a depressed market, a good manager could remain
competitive by effectively reducing cost while maintaining high quality
products. This was witnessed in several sub-projects.
(g)   The pro4act should be a part of the integrated Regional (provincial)
development plan to limit over-expansion, prevent shortage of inputs and labor
force, coordinate local funds mobilization, and set consistent priorities for
the Regional development program.
(h)   In addition to ABC's own supervision, timely and adequate supervision by
IDA during implementation was an important support to the borrower and avoided
potential disasters.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1        Most of the covenants in the Credit and Project Agreements were
generally complied with by the borrower (see Table 11 in Part III for status
of compliance), except for charging the prevailing ABC interest rates to all
IDA assisted loans and maintaining a 2% interest spread, which was finally
achieved in September 1988. The record of compliances with the covenants is
available in the project file.
12.2        The SAR has been translated into Chinese and closely used by
Guangxi ABC staff. Unfortunately, the translated version did not have the
annexes and attachments of the SAR and led to some confusion. Further,
Guangxi ABC was not consulted during finalization of the report, therefore,
some first hand project information which could have been useful was not used.
ABC regularly sent to IDA for review an annual audit report and a semi-annual
progress report which are also available in the project file. Detailed
project data, costs and physical work quantities were kept by ABC offices at
all levels. However, there was a lack of analytical information which could
be used in project management. Data required for the PCR preparation was
derived from the information provided from the project level ABC branches,
which sometimes contained inconsistencies and inaccuracies. This information
was verified and amended by Guangxi ABC, then compiled into appropriate
formats designed by the PCR mission.
13.   Conclusions and Recommendations
13.1        The project has been successfully implemented without major
problems. Only a few, minor problems were encountered and commitments were
made by the borrower that due attention will be given to resolve the problems
and enhance sustainability of the project. Furthermore, many of the problems
encountered in the RCI project during implementation and their proposed
solutions have already been taken into consideration in designing and
implementing later rural credit projects assisted by IDA.



13
13.3        The PCR mission recommended the following actions, which were
agreed upon by ABC. These actions would have significant effects on ensuring
or enhancing success of the project.
(a)   No more citrus will be planted under the project using the recycled
funds until market conditions improve. Instead already existing orchards
should receive priorities for getting additional funds for improving
irrigation systems and increasing fertilizer and agrochemical use.
(b)   Improvement of post-harvest facilities, i.e., storage, cleaning, grading
and sorting, and packaging should receive high priorities in future investment
as existing facilities would be inadequate as citrus production reaches its
peak. Further, Guangxi ABC, with the help of marketing companies, should
explore sales of citrus to other provinces through upgrading of product
qualities.
(c)   ABC should make funds available for working capital loans to overcome
problems of inadequate fertilizer application, procurement of spare parts, raw
materials, and other necessary inputs.
(d)   Stricter environmental protection guidelines following the Bank
standards should be applied to all sub-projects. Draining of fish ponds to
rivers should be stopped and seepage problems should be corrected in selected
freshwater fisheries sites. All agroindustries supported in the project
should have clearance from the Environmental Protection Agency.
(e)   Guangxi ABC with the help of the ABC Headquarters should provide clearer
guidelines to lower level ABCs for sub-project approval criteria, supervision
and monitoring methods, and reporting to higher level ABCs for appropriate
follow-up actions.
(f)   Guangxi ABC with the help of the technical bureaus concerned should
provide clear technical guidelines, e.g., number of citrus seedlings per mu,
amount of fertilizer to be applied, etc., to county level ABCs for consistent
technical practice.
(g)   Water quality should be checked for mercury and other possible
contaminations before making investments in oyster and other shellfish farming
(crab and mussels).
(h)   Shrimp culture investment should be expanded to more individual
households in the future.
(i)   Guangxi ABC will initiate a discussion with the ABC Headquarters and
other provincial ABCs on collecting and collating production and consumption
data of major agricultural commodities in each province. This information
would serve as a basis for national and regional market analysis which is
often lacking in ABC's project analysis.



15
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 1
General
1.    In order to accelerate the development of agricultural production,
adjust the structure of agricultural production, promote economic development
and exports, increase agricultural output and rural incomes, and improve
management of the Agricultural Bank of China's (ABC) Guangxi branch, the
Chinese government and IDA agreed to lend 47.2 million SDR (US$50 million
equivalent) to ABC for a period of 20 years. The ABC Guangxi branch began to
use the funds on Nov 26, 1984, and finished lending in June 1988, one year
earlier than planned. For four years, under the cooperation of related
administrative offices and units, all ABC sub-branches and offices made
careful selections and appraisals of the subprojects, promoted lending, and
monitored sub-borrowers' management and implementation of the subprojects. Up
to now, all subprojects' implementations have been completed. The project has
shown good preliminary results and has reached predicted goals at appraisal.
2.    In Part 3 of the Rural Credit Project Completion Report (PCR), the Bank
uses 13 tables to describe the project cycle from identification - preparation
- appraisal - approval - implementation - to completion. The data in the
tables were provided to the Bank PCR mission by ABC Headquarters and the
Guangxi Branch of the Agricultural Bank of China, which assembled the data
according to the actual circumstances of the project and from the relevant
economic agencies. We, therefore, consider the data and information to be
accurate and comprehensive.
3. Part 1 of the PCR gives a systematic account of the identification,
preparation, establishment, appraisal, implementation and completion of the
project, including a full account of the problems encountered during
implementation. The report also makes a sound analysis and evaluation of the
results of the project, the problems that still exist, the nature and the
impact of the project, and the roles of the International Development
Association and the Agricultural Bank in the implementation. The report also
sums up the positive and negative lessons of the project implementation.
Project Preparation
4. After China formally joined the World Bank on May 15, 1980, the State
Council of the Chinese Government in November 1981 approved the ABC to act as
an intermediary for international financial institutions and to handle the
operations of bringing in long-term credit from abroad. It was also at this
time that the Guangxi Branch of ABC began to create conditions for bringing in
foreign capital. On November 15-20, 1981, the ABC Guangxi Branch, under the
leadership of the ABC Head Office and the People's Government of the Guangxi
1       Part  II was  prepared  by  Guangxi ABC  to give  the  borrower's
perspective and to confirm and comment on Part I and III of this PCR in
accordance with the requirements in the World Bank's "Guidelines for Project
Completion Report, Article 2 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e).



16
Autonomous Region, began to have contact with the World Bank, and proposed the
Branch's intention to use World Bank rural project loans.
5.    At the early stage, we had no project appraisal experiences. ABC Guangxi
branch gathered all local officers and carried out a centralized appraisal and
made cross comparison of the subprojects. Then the approval power was given
to prefecture branches. Local branches only prepared appraisal reports.
During this time, the approval of the subprojects was very strict, some bad
appraisal reports were returned. Since there were too many appraisal reports,
the approval power was given to lower level branches. Selection of right
subprojects were based on the following criteria that subprojects: (a) were
consistent with the overall plan of the province based on optimal use of local
advantages and production potential; (b) efficiently used investment funds and
had quick beneficial effects in both short and long term; (c) had not only
high financial return, but also high social and economical returns; (d) should
contribute towards solving some major problems of agriculture development; (e)
should promote many other related economic activities by inter-sectoral
linkages; (f) should fit within Guangxi's management, absorption and loan
repaying ability as well as availability of local labor, fertilizer, feed,
coal, electricity and transportation; and (g) should be highly competitive and
marketable both in domestic and export markets. Besides considering the above
criteria, natural conditions, technical strength, management skill,
availability of self raised fund and the minimum internal rate of return (15z)
were also assessed for selection.
6.    But some problems existed. For example: (a) evaluation of sub-loans made
to individual households were often poorly done because of the huge number of
sub-loans and because of Guangxi ABC's limited man power and time constraints.
This resulted in varying success of individual household subprojects; (b) Some
parameters such as inflation rates, contingencies, inputs and output prices
were underestimated. In some case, additional investment had to be made or
the project scale had to be reduced; (c) Some items which were initially
government controlled were later decontrolled, but then there were shortages
of supply for these materials, and the sub-borrowers had to purchase them from
the free market, further increasing the cost.
Project Implementation
7.    Adjustment in the Project Design: Compared to the original plan, the
number of the subprojects, total investment, loan amount, self raised funds,
production scale and benefit were changed during the implementation. After
approval of subprojects, new situations appeared. Some subprojects could not
reach the standard at appraisal, and they were quickly adjusted. These
adjustments were made due to the following reasons: (a) Some subprojects
appeared incompatible to others, the scales of production had to be adjusted.
For example, two citrus subprojects in Yulin prefecture were not supplied with
storage at appraisal. Therefore, additional funds had to be allocated later
for the storage; (b) Actual investments exceeded planned investments with
inflation, and sub-borrower's contributions were inadequate. Consequently,
additional loans had to be supplied; (c) For some subprojects, investments led
to production levels which local markets could not absorb and the scales of
the investment had to be cut down and reallocated to other areas; (d)
Subproject which did not start six months after approval or whose expenses



17
were not submitted three months after disbursement of the loan were
terminated. For example, the pig breeding subproject in Yulin prefecture did
not start within six months aftey the approval, due to a change of manager, so
it was terminated. In the case of Shantan fishery in Nanning city, it was
discovered that Y15,000 was mismanaged and its expenses were not submitted
within three months. So the subproject was terminated and the loan was
recovered. Terminations of subprojects were carefully investigated with
consultation of higher level officers, and each termination was announced in
official documents. Subproiects whose investment sizes changed were
reappraised.
8.    Minimizing Loan Default Risks : All the subprojects had to be guaranteed
or mortgaged. About 91Z of the total loans have guarantees by related
government bureaus and organizations, town and village enterprises, marketing
cooperatives, foreign trade offices or other enterprises. Total of 104
subprojects were mortgaged, covering 9.25% of total loans. Besides, some
local branches arranged notary and irsurance for selected subprojects. 943
subprojects were notarized (76%) and 868 subprojects were insured (70% of
total subprojects). During the years of project implementation, about 0.26%
of the total loan was misappropriated; 20 subprojects had assets less than the
loan amount (1.2% of total loan); 14 subprojects failed completely, totaling
Y1.625 million, as 0.4% of total loan.
9.    The reason for above mistakes were: (a) Loan officers were changed,
regulations for accepting expenses were not strictly followed, and the
problems were not dealt with quickly; (b) Household subprojects were widely
scattered, farmers lacked technical knowledge and management experience. One-
third of the loan was directly given to household farmers, some of the
subprojects were not managed well; (c) The management abilities of loan
officers were overestimated, some officers could not handle the management of
the subprojects; (d) Some subprojects were destroyed by natural disasters,
plant diseases and pests; and (e) In some places, public security was not
good; fruits, prawns and fishes were occasionally stolen or robbed.
10.   There were other problems during the implementation, although most
subprojects, in general, proceeded wel'. Sub-borrowers overcame many
difficulties and completed implementation on time or even before schedule.
Most subprojects were very efficient and brought high economic benefit. But
some subprojects had problems and their implementation was delayed. The major
problems were: (a) Land purchases could not be settled. For example, in the
case of the poultry subproject in Beiliu county, land purchases took a very
long time and as a result, the subproject was delayed by one year; (b) Delays
were experienced in equipment deliveries. For example, the starch factory of
Xijiang state farm began its operation almost one year later than planned
because equipments ordered from different suppliers did not arrive on time and
installation was delayed; (c) A shortage of high quality seedlings delayed
establishment of litchi and longan plantations; (d) With higher than
anticipated inflation, many subprojects experienced shortages of funds and
implementation was delayed; and (e) In some cases, self-contribution by the
borrower were not available when it was needed and delayed the implementation.
For example, a feed mill in Nanning Prefecture was implemented two years
behind schedule due to lack of self-raised funds which in this case was
provided by the Provincial Animal Husbandry Bureau.



1S
Project Results
11.    In general, most subprojects reached their goals at appraisal in terms
of completion time, quality, quantity and benefits. Although the
implementation of some subprojects was delayed, after completion, they could
all reach or exceed designed levels of operation. Sub-borrowers also tried
very hard to increase the benefits. In some cases, benefits of the project
were affected to certain degrees, but there was only a marginal effect on the
debt repayment. Constructions of some subprojects were delayed for various
reasons. But sub-borrowers tried to catch up with the schedule and raise the
benefits of the subprojects.
12.   After four years of investment, technical support, effective management
and implementation, all 1,240 subprojects were completed. The results are
listed below:
Crops: (a) New planting of 18,904 ha of citrus and rehabilitation of 2,994 ha,
for a total of 2.8 million trees; (b) New planting of 1,445 ha of pomelo,
444,500 trees and rehabilitation of 183 ha with 56,200 trees planted; (c) New
planting of 2,467 ha of litchi and rehabilitation of 412 ha for total of
139,450 trees; (d) New planting of 1,873 ha of longan and rehabilitation of 50
ha of longan orchard with 19,200 trees planted; (e) New planting of 313 ha of
tea with 6.465 million trees; (f) New planting of 6,338 ha of aniseed with 8.4
million trees; (g) New planting of 3,241 ha of cassia with 17.7 million trees;
(h) New planting of 29,830 ha of fir with 86.8 million trees; (i) New planting
of 2,352 ha of eucalyptus with 9.2 million trees.
Aguaculture : (a) New development of fish ponds (2,804 ha), improvement of
fish ponds (1,585 ha) and new development of river branch fishery (495 ha);
and (b) 3,000 ha of new development of sea product farming of prawn, oyster,
blue crab, pearl, clam, and blood clam.
Livestock: (a) Development of 3,600 ha of ranch land and expansion of cattle
by 6,693 heads; (b) Development of poultry farms, with annual capacity of 2.5
million birds hatchery, 0.86 million of breeding birds, 2.096 million layers
and 1.507 million broilers; (c) Development of 32 duck farms, with annual
capacity of 8.073 million birds hatchery, 317,700 breeding birds and 263,000
layers and 871,000 broilers; (d) Development of 90 pig farms, production of
83,457 heads of sows, 133,400 pigs, 184,200 piglets and 103,347 hogs per
annum.
Agroprocessing: (a) New construction of 43 fruit storages with 258,000 m2 area
and 47,900 ton capacity; (b) New construction of 43 feed mills with production
capacity of 189,000 ton of feed per year. The Jinguang state farm feed mill
in Nanning city has the capacity for 20,000 tons per year, and the equipments
were imported from West Germany and U.S.; (c) New construction of 10 starch
factories, with a 22,500 ton capacity per year; (d) New construction and
improvement of 9 animal medicine factories, producing 2,500 tons of medicine
per year; (f) New construction of 13 fruit and vegetable processing and
freezing factories with a capacity of 577,080 tons per year. Most of these
subprojects reached or exceeded the planned scales. 140 non-staple food
production subprojects were built in suburbs of Nanning, Guilin, Liuzhou,



19
Beihai, Yulin, etc.. There are also 36 subprojects which export their
products.
Bank Performance
13.   Between 1982 and 1990, a total of 12 World Bank missions came to
Guangxi, of which 3 were study tours, 3 project evaluation missions (i.e.
identification, preparation and appraisal), 4 supervision missions, 1 project
completion mission and 1 post evaluation (audit) mission, thus completing the
cycle of the World Bank rural credit project. Looking back at the work of the
past few years, the World Bank has played a momentous role in the formation,
development and implementation of the project and has given us important
guidance and great assistance.
14.   In particular, the Bank has:
(a) Helped us improve the caliber of project management personnel. In the
past few years, 32 of our staff have been trained in the training programs co-
sponsored by the World Bank Economic Development Institute and China. With
these staff as mainstay trainers and with assistance from the World Bank and
ABC Headquarters, the ABC branches and the line agencies at all levels in
Guangxi held 3,480 training courses on rural credit project management for
more than 270,000 participants. As a result, there is now in the Guangxi ABC
system a contingent of foreign credit personnel knowledgeable in project
selection, appraisal, supervision and monitoring and evaluation; we have also
built up a contingent of 936 foreign-capital accountants knowledgeable in
keeping and auditing accounts, supervising payment, cross-checking of account
statements, and consolidating financial statements;
(b) Made timely disbursement of funds according to the Agreement, ensuring on-
schedule implementation of the project; and
(c) Made many good suggestions with regard to the production and construction
under the project. On each of their missions to Guangxi in relation to the
rural credit project, World Bank staff gave good suggestions relevant to the
work at each stage, all of which contributed toward the on-schedule completion
of the project and improved the results of the project. For instance, a fish
breeding specialist made field surveys as well as careful calculations of the
fish breeding projects in our Region, enabling us to eliminate some
unnecessary capital constructicn and cut down project cost estimates by 502
while doubling the economic returns. To enhance the feasibility of the citrus
projects, several fruit specialists recommended viable improvement measures
which both reduced costs and increased output. They also made careful studies
of the prevention and control of plant diseases and insect pests, product
marketing, orchard irrigation, operational management, and organizational and
leadership matters, so that the two sides eventually reached consensus in
their opinions and views and together found even better ways to increase the
returns of the citrus projects.
15.   The Project Completion mission in March 1990 visited project sites all
over the province during their lO-day mission and made pertinent and practical
suggestions for addressing problems then still existing in the project. The
suggestions include the following:



20
(a) ABC should strengthen its supervision and management of the project and
should, in particular, give more guidance and assistance to individual
operators in the matter of funds, technology and management;
(b) ABC should cooperate closely with technical agencies to further strengthen
technical training, improve rational management, reduce production cost,
improve product quality and enhance market competitiveness;
(c) As the various citrus projects enter the stream of peak production, they
would face difficulties in marketing their products, so consideration should
be given to post-harvest handling of products and discovery of wider marketing
channels; and
(d) World Bank loans recovered by ABC should be used first of all on projects
in urgent need of production capital and then to support the projects'
auxiliary facilities and post-harvest needs.
16.   The Bank sent a post-evaluation mission in August 1990, that
demonstrated the same hardworking attitude and inspected the projects in the
excessively hot weather and made many excellent suggestions. In short,
through the implementation of the World Bank Rural Credit Project, we have
been able to effectively develop the sub-tropical resources characteristic of
Guangxi and achieve great economic results. But an even greater result of the
project is the improved caliber of the project managing personnel and the
improved operating and management skills of the Autonomous Region's ABC
branches, an achievement that cannot be measured in figures.
17.   In some areas, the Bank could have helped more.  Amotng which:
(a) On some questions the World Bank did not give sufficient consideration to
China's actual conditions. For example, because the Bank insisted that the
loans be divided equally among the state-run units, the collictives and the
individual operators (one-third to each category), the agric. tural banks did
not have sufficient managing capabilities to oversee all loar :sers, so that
some of the subprojects implemented by the thousands of indiviP':al operators
did not achieve good results;
(b) Another example: at the first project-appraisal training c-arse held in
Shanghai in 1983 by the Institute of International Economic Development, World
Bank lecturers made the point that incremental working capital should be
financed 100Z by short-term loans (domestic funds), but no specific financing
arrangements were mentioned in any of the Bank's appraisal team case studies,
so that in the early and middle stages of our project implementation, we did
not identify sufficient working capital in the loans;
(c) Not enough was done to provide information and technical guidance. For
example, some citrus projects in the southwestern part of the Region
experienced a spread of the "yellow dragon disease." This was mentioned to
World Bank specialists but nothing could be done to check the spread of the
disease; and



21
(d) Disbursement ratio of domestic to World Bank capital is inappropriate,
50:50, resulting in overly high capital costs and interest rates.
Borrower Performance
18.   ABC Guangxi Branch began using the Credit proceeds on November 26, 1984.
Disbursement of project loan was completed at the end of June 1988, at which
time project construction was also completed. The Guangxi ABC branch, under
the administration of the Bureau of Commerce and ABC Headquarters, conducted
full scale inspections in Spring 1987 and Fall 1988. Local ABC branches,
government offices, related administrative units, auditing offices, technical
offices of Agriculture Bureau and subprojects' guarantors participated and
cooperated both times. Each time 1,200 persons were involved and the
inspection took three months. The inspection showed that, except for some
crop subprojects, all other subprojects were completed, some of the
subprojects were already in operation and brought benefits.
19.   The Guangxi ABC in the intervening years mainly carried out:
(a) Strengthening of personnel training so that the personnel would possess
the capabilities required by project management, thereby facilitating smooth
project implementation;
(b) Under the leadership of the Party and the Government, establishment and
improvement of the institutions and measures necessary for project management;
(c) While meeting World Bank requirements for rural project loans, selection
of projects suited to local conditions and characteristics, making use of
local advantages and avoiding disadvantages;
(d) Establishment of economic rules and regulations and comprehensively
strengthening of project risk prevention;
(e) Improvement of the project supervision network, and monitoring and
evaluation systems so that problems were discovered and addressed in a timely
manner; and
(f) Gradual introduction of the World Bank project management methodology in
domestic industrial, agricultural and commercial loan operations and foreign
exchange lo0 operations with notable results.
20.   After implementing this project, the Guangxi ABC learned the following
lessons:
(a) Management capabilities were insufficient during project appraisal and
implementation. This was because the project consisted of a great number of
subprojects scattered over wide areas, entailing great volumes of work; and
(b) investments were made in a concentrated manner within a short period of
time; the work was new to us and requirements were strict and our personnel
were not able to master all the details in a short time. During appraisal, we
concentrated our attention on the co )utation of economic and financial
indicators and did not give enough attention to the project's investment



22
environment, organizational management and technological requirements,
resulting in the inclusion of some subprojects that barely met the required
qualifications.
21.   Fruitful results gained by the Guangxi ABC in its cooperation with the
World Bank over the years of project execution were:
(a) Under the guidance of the World Bank, the ABC Guangxi Branch compiled the
Arpraisal Manual for Rural Credit Projects, which is now used as a tool book
by the entire ABC system nationwide when making appraisals of World Bank rural
credit projects. It is also now used as study material for training courses
on project appraisal in domestic credit operations;
(b) With training and assistance provided by the World Bank, the ABC Guangxi
Branch has developed an advanced project monitoring and evaluation system on
the basis of its old simplified after-loan inspection procedures, so that now
work procedures are standardized, decisions are based on valid considerations,
and rules and regulations are legalized;
(c) The World Bank had provided training for our auditing personnel in each of
the project execution years so that auditing work of rural credit projects
throughout our Region is now conducted according to uniform standards and
procedures. This has facilitated project implementation and provided many
favorable conditions for the branches to oversee and ensure the effective use
of project loans; and
(d) The meticulous work attitude and great sense of responsibility
demonstrated by the Bank staff on their missions to Guangxi have left a deep
impression with the managing personnel of rural credit projects in our Region
and have prompted the latter to be more conscientious in their own work, thus
contributing to more effective management and more efficient use of project
loans.



23
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
.......... ............... ....
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Related Bank Loans and/or Credit
,.............. .... ...... .... .... ............... ................................ ...... ........... ... . ..
Loan/Credit       Purpose                    Year of           Status            Comments
Title                                        Approval
Rursl Credit 11  Provision of mediun and    FY86               Under             Satifactory
long term loans in two                       implementation    Progress
provinces of Fujian and
Hunan for investment in
aquaculture, orchards,
agroprocessing, Livestock
and technical assistance.
Rural Credit III Provision of mediun and    FY88               Under             Satifactory
Long term loans in six                       implementation    Progress
provinces of Guizhou,
Sichuan, Yunnan, Anhui,
Henan and Hubei for
investment in tree crops,
livestock, aquaculture and
agroprocessing, and also for
insitutional development
of ABC
Rural Credit IV  Provision of mediuim and    FY91              Approved by       Project was
long term loans in nine                      the Board on      Signed on
provinces of Jilin,                          October 30, 1990  December 10, 1990
Liaoning, Shannxi, Jiangxi,
Guangdong, Inner Mongolia,
Hunan, Guangxi, Hebei and
Beijing Municipality for
investment in tree crops,
livestock, aquaculture and
agroprocessing, and also for
insitutional development
of ABC



24
Table 2
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
........... ................. .
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Timetable
Item                                Date              Date
Planned           Actual
Identification                         n/a             1/05/83
(PB)
Preparation                            n/a             4/02/83
Appraisal Mission                      n/a              8/29/83
Negotiations                           n/a              3/12/84
Board Approval                       4/24/84            4/24/84
Signing Date                         6/01/84            6/01/84
Effective Date                      11/01/84           11/01/84
Closing Date                         6/30/89            6/30/89
Completion Date                      6/30/89           6/30/88
Source of Information: Project Supervision Timetable
and the Project Files



25
TabLe 3
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
.... ................
Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and ActuaL Disbursements
(USS '000)
Quarter           Appraisal         Actual   Actual as %        Actual as %
Ending            Estimate                    of Estimate         of Total
......... ................. . .............. ... .. ................... ... .. .. ... .
1984/1985
1                  0.5                          0%                 0%
t1                    1              4.95      495%                 9%
III                 2.5               5.7      228%                10%
IV                    4              9.57      239%                17%
1985/1986
1                    6             12.72      212%                23%
11                    8             15.67      196%                28%
III                  11             18.56      169%                33%
IV                   14             22.11      158%                40%
1986/1987
1                 17.5             24.61      141%                44%
1I                   21             26.71      127%                48%
III                25.5             30.58      120%                55%
IV                   30             34.75      116%                62%
1987/1988
1                 34.5             37.47      109%                67%
it                   39             43.24      111%                77%
III                  43             46.06      107%                83%
IV                   47                48      102%                86%
1988/1989
1                 48.5             55.64      115%                99%
11                   50             55.82      112%  a/           100%
a/  The actual amount disbursed increased in terms of US$ due to devaluation
US$ vs.SDR during implementation.
Source: Disbursement Information (MIS)



26
Table 4
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
.......... .............. ....
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Inplementation
Appraisal        Actual
Indicatiors      Unit              Estimate
... .. ........ ................ .............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Citrus           ha                    9000            28346
Plantation a/
Other tree       ha                    9600            42075
Crops b/
Fresh water      ha                    3000             4918
Fishery c/
Livestock
Cattle d/      heads                  800             6630
Poultry e/    000birds                N/A             6054
Pigs  e/       heads                  N/A           145300
Agroprocessing   Units                   12              118
................. ..  ...... ....................  ...... . . . . . .. .. .
a/ Citrus includes orange, pomelo, Litchi and logan.
b/ Other tree crops include tea, star anise, cassia, fir and eucalyptus.
c/ Excludes sea products.
d/ Only breeding stocks.
e/ Both breeding and commercial production.



27
Table S
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
.. .......................
Project Cost
Appraisal Estimate a/                  Revised b/                      Actual c/
Local    Foreign                   Local    Foreign                Local    Foreign
Cost     Cost d/    TotaL          Cost     Cost          Total    Cost      Cost          Total
(USOOO) (USIOOO)   (US'OOO)    (Y'000)  (USOOO)   (US'OOO)  (Y'O0O)  (USOOO)   (US'OOO
Crops                                                        375,372    3,375  112,393        374,762    3,369  112,211
Citrus  e/               44,300    2,300  46,600           283,325    2,471   84,833        282,239    2,461   84,508
Pomelo                                                      10,305        90    3,086        10,169        89    3,045
Litchi                                                      23,723       207    7,103        23,723       207    7,103
Logan                                                       18,987       166    5,685        19,682       172    5,893
Tea  f/                  12,000       600  12,600            2,716        24       813        2,651        23       794
Star Anise                                                   7,558        66    2,263         7,557        66    2,263
Cassia                                                       8,691        76    2,602         7,751        68    2,321
Fir Trees                                                   17,829       155    5,338        18,676       163    5,592
Eucalyptus                                                   2,237        20       670        2,312        20       692
AquacuLture                21,800    1,900  23,700            76,188       699   23,255        80,550       733   24,586
Freshwater Fishery       14,900    1,300  16,200            25,033       364    7,641        28,082       408    8,571
Sea Products              6,900       600   7,500           51,156       744   15,614        52,468       763   16,015
Livestock                  13,300    2,800  16,100            48,932    1,237   15,362         51,050    1,306   16,027
Cattles                   6,700    1,400   8,100             1,444        34       453        1,453        34       456
Poultry                   4,700    1,000   5,700            18,627       433    5,848        16,928       394    5,315
Pigs                      1,900       400   2,300           28,860       671    9,061        32,669       760   10,257
Agroprocessing              5,200    3,400   8,600            73,514    2,641   23,721         79,060    2,841   25,823
Fruit Storage                                               21,342       682    6,887        20,908       669    6,746
Feed Mill                                                   24,030       768    7,754        25,549       817    8,244
Starch Factory                                               8,348       267    2,694         9,939       318    3,207
Animal Medicine                                              3,907       125    1,261         3,914       125    1,263
Processing and                                              15,887       508    5,126        18,750       600    6,050
Freezing
PhysicaL and Price
Contingency  g/            30,200    3,600  33,800
h/
Total                     127,400   15,300 142,100           574,006    7,952  174,815        585,422    8,248  178,429
a/ Appraisal estimate as in SAR.
b/ Revised with devaluations. Revised costs in US$ are not available.
c/ Actual project cost at completion. Actual local costs in USS are not available.
d/ Foreign cost includes direct and indirect import costs, which amounts to about 5% of the total project cost.
a/ Costs for citrus, pomelo, litchi and Logan.
f/ Costs for all other tree crops.
g/ Revised and actual costs already include contingency.
h/ The base cost in 1983 prices plus physical and price contingency.
Exchange Rates:   At Appraisal  USS1.00 = Y 2.0
1985           US$1.00 = Y 2.9
1986           US$1.00 = Y 3.2
1987           US$1.00 = Y 3.7



28
Table 6
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
... .................
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Financing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............... ............................... .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
Planned
Source of Fund              Loan/Credit        Revised            Final
Agreement
.................................................................................
(USS'OOO)         (USS'OOO)          (USS'OOO)
IDA                           50,000              8,662 a/          55.743 d/
13,098 b/
33,983 c/
(Y'OOO)           (Y'OOO)            (VOOO)
Labor                       16,935                                15.302
Construction materiaL       53,182                                46,870
Equipment                   35,876                                36,615
Land                         1,265                                 1,265
Other                      103,780                                91,879
Subtotal                  211,038                               191,931
Domestic
ABC                        211,038                               217,718
Sub-borrower               180,890                              204,066
TotaL                        602,966                               613,715
... ... .......................................................................
a/ USS1= Y2.9
b/ USS1= Y3.2
c; USS1- Y3.7
d/ Amount in USS increased due to S vs. SOR devaluation.



29
Table 7
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
......... ................
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Direct Benefits
... .... ......... 
........... ..................... .... .... ..... ......... ... ...... ... .... .. ......
Appraisal              Estimated at           Estimated at
Indicators                         Estimate               Dec.1988               Full Development
.. .... ...... ....... .... ............ ........................
Households                           90.000                 94,440                 198.000
Benefited
Jobs Created                         75,000                100,484                384.000
IncrementaL                              156                    283                    300
Annual Income (Y)
per Household
Incremental                         280.000                499,000                730,000
Total Profit
(Y'OOO)
Not. ............ ..... ........y .A.B .
Note: Estimated by ABC



30
Table 8
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic and Financial Rates of Return
............ ...............................
~~~~~... ........................ .... ............ .........................
Appraisal        Actual at
Indicators                Estimate 8/       Completion b/
.................. ...................................... .....................
ERR for the project             27X               20%
Citrus                        25%               19%
Poultry                       40%               26%
Cattle                        22%               17%
Freshwater Fishery            27%               21%
FRR for the project             25%               25%
Citrus                        23%               24%
Poultry                       42%               25%
Cattle                        15%               14%
Freshwater Fishery            23%               22%
a/ Estimated at Appraisal and source, SAR.
b/ Estimated by PCR mission.
Note: Rates of return were reestimated based on information gathered
during the PCR mission in March 1990. A random sample of a
representative case of each main category of investment was made
and ERR and FRR were estimated based on 1990 prices. Alt
historical cash flows were adjusted using the actual inflation
and converted into economic value using appropriate conversion
factors.



31
Table 9
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
...............
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
.........................
Financial Impact
................
Without              Future with          Actual
Indicators                      Project              Project              (dec.1988)
.................................................................................
Financial                             N/A                   27%                  28%
Rate of Return
Incremental Revenue                   N/A             730,000              499,000
(Y'OOD)
Incremental                          N/A              140,000                80,831
Profit and Tax
(Y.000)
.................................................................................
Note: Estimated by ABC.



32
Table 10
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
....................
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
..........................
Status of Covenants
.................................. ............... .......................................................
Status
Covenant                                Yes     No     N/A          Remnkrks
.. ........................................................................................................
Development Credit Agreement
.........................
1. Section 3.02                           X                The final covenant to be compiled with as of
Government to ensure that                                September 1988. With increase in ABC's tending
interest spread on subloans                              rates, the minimum 2X spread was achleved.
to be at least 2X p.a.
2. Section 3.03                           X
Government to maintain
Project coodination Committee
with composition and functions
acceptable to IDA.
3. Section 3.04                           X
Goverrment, IDA and ABC to
exchange views on interest rates
to be charged by ABC on its
onlending operations.
Project Agreement
................
4. Section 2.01 (b)                       X
ABC to establish and thereafter
maintain a Project Unit to supervise
and monitor alL aspects of subproject
implementation.
5. Section 2.02 Ca)                       X
ABC to obtain IDA approval
for sub-loans above the free Limit
in accordance with the provisions
of Part A of the Schedule.
6. Section 2.02 (c)                       X                 Complied with as of Septebmer 1, 1988.
ABC to charge the prevailing interest                    ABC's lending rates for IDA assisted subloans
rates on IDA assisted subloans.                          were consistently below the prevailing rates
until they were inceased to the prevailing
interest rates charged to similar loans.
7. Section 2.02 (b)                       X
ABC to issue a Project Appraisal
Manual, along with the instructions
for its use for appraisal of project
investments.
8. Section 2.06 (a) (iii)                 X
ABC to submit semi-annual
progress reports.
9. Section 4.01 - 4.02                    X
Financial covenants including
audit of project accounts
and financial statements of
Guangxi ABC by independent
aud-.tors.
.......................................................... ..............................................................................



33
Table 11
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
.....................
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
.........................
Use of Bank Resources
.....................
(Staff Inputs - Staff weeks)
..... ............. ............................................................................
Stage of Project Cycle   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89 Total
.................................... ....................................................................
Preappraisal                 9.0   54.2   12.7                                            75.9
Appraisal                                  50.7                                           50.7
Negotiations                                5.1                                            5.1
Supervision                                        15.5    6.9    5.4    7.2    2.1   37.1
... ... ..... ..... ..... ... ....  .... .....    .... .....    .... .....   .... .....    ....
Total                        9.0   54.2   68.5   15.5    6.9    5.4    7.2    2.1  168.8
............................................................................. ........
Source : CAN ( As of April 30, 1990)



34
TabLe 12
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
......  ........... ..
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Use of Bank Resources
(Missions)
Stage of                Month/   No of    Days in   SpeciaLization             Performance
Project Cycle           Year      Persons  Field       Represented             Rating
......... ................. ....................... ........................................... ............. .......
Reconnaissance          10/81         4          21    Econ. Eng. Fin.
Identification          4/82          3         21    Econ. Fin. Ag.Econ.
7/82          1         9      Ag.Econ
Preparation             1/83           1         14    Agronomist
4/83          8         28    Ag.Econ.Econ.Fin.Eng.
PouLtry spec.Aquacult
AppraisaL               9/83           6         28    Ag.Econ.Econ.Eng. Aqu        -
Poultry spec.
Supervision 1  a/       11/84         6          28    Ag.Econ. Econ. Aquacu        1
Poultry spec.
Supervision 2           12/85          1        7      Ag.econ                      1
Supervision 3           9/86           1         14    Fin.                         1
Supervision 4           12/87          2         7     Fin. Agronomist              1
Supervision 5  b/       10/88          I       n.a.   Fin.                          1
PCR Mission              3/90          2         10    Economist, Agropro.          1
--a-------- Combined .-with . .-dentific-ation-.of-Rura- Credit . -..-.---.-.-. .. ......
a/  Combined  with  identification  of  Rural  Credit II.
b/ In Beijing. Combined with identification of Rural Credit IV.



CHINA                               Annex 1
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
. . . ..... ......... .
GUANGXI AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background Information
..... ....... .......I- -
...... ..................... ...... ........... ....... ............. .. . ....... ........... .. . ..
Item                                1980              1985              1988
Population
Total Population (million)        35.4              38.7              40.9
RuraL Population (million)        n.a.              34.0              35.6
Land Area
Cultivated Area (OOOha)           2637              2563              2569
% irrigated                         63%               65%               64%
Cropping Index                     1.8               1.8               1.8
Gross Value of Agriculture
Total (Ymillion) a/               5945              8314              8846
% Crops                             61%               59%               57%
% Forestry                           6%                7%                7%
% Livestcok                         21%               21%               21%
% Fishery                            1%                2%                3%
% Sideline activities               10%               11%               13%
Crop Production
Foodgrain: Area ('000 ha)         3957              2471              2476
YieLd (ton/ha)            3                 4                 4
Production(OOOtons)   11904              9860              9468
Oilseeds : Area ('000 ha)          168               194               175
Yield (ton/ha)            1                 1                 1
Production(OOOtons)     137               228               171
Sugarcane: Area ('000 ha)          112               221               294
Yield (ton/ha)           36                44                46
Production(OOOtons)    4019              9829             13533
Citrus   :Area (OOOh ha)         n.a.                66               101
Yield (ton/ha)         n.a.              n.a.             n.a.
Production(OOOtons)     209               139               196
Livestock b/
Cattle     ('000 heads)           4155              6601              6480
Pigs       ('000 heads)          10341             14357             15272
Chicken   (000 birds)            n.a.             50504             59571
Duck       ('000 birds)           n.a.             33669             39714
Fisheries
Total Production (000 tons)        111               189               258
% Marine                            71%               65%               64%
% Freshwater                        29%               36%               36%
Agricultural Inputs
........... ............... ..
SaLes of ChemicaL
fertilizer (OO0tons)            1829              2111              2967
No. of Tractors ('000)              22                28                40
a/ In 1980 constant prices.
b/ Year-end stock.



MAP SECTION



I  Fb I I 1:  on I                               _                           . t           }                  0~d A.~ \ 
me                 ni          r                                                          
o                                              or .'
- ~ ~     ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      -5



