Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA. /Y6/667614
Report No. 4849-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CiHI NA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 9, 1984
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This docurnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Yuan (Y) 1.00       = US$0.50
Y2.00               = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEICHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)         = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)   = 0.62 miles
1 hiectare (ha)     = 2.47 acres (ac)
= 15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)    = 2.205 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t)           = 1,000 kg
= 2,205 lb
AkBBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC   -   Agricultural Bank of China
RCCs  -   Rural Credit Cooperatives
PBC   -   People's Bank of China
IFAD  -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
PU    -   Project Unit
p.a.  -   per annum
cu m  -   cubic meter
mm    -   millimeter



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     BACKGROUND           ....... ........ . . ...... .. ..               1
The Agricultural Sector                   , . , *  ,. .........    1
Bank Group Assistance to Agriculture ...........                     2
Project Rationale               ................ ,.*., .        .    3
II.     AGRICULT.'r L BANK OF CHINA. ........... .  ,     ..............    4
Objectives, Organization, Staffing and Traininig.........            4
Operating PoLicies and Procedures.....................               5
Interest Rates.....*                    ....7........ ......         7
Sources and Uses of Funds ......... . ...  ...         ..    ..      7
Accounting Systems and Auditing ...........................          9
II.     PROJECT AREA AND BENEFICIARIES.....................                  9
Agricultural Situation..             ........                       10
ABC Organization and Operations............................         10
Other Support S      esv                 i     c     e     s        11
Project Beneficiaries  ...* * * * * * ...... ............ . ........  11
IV.     THE PROJECT...............,....... ......                    6     11
Objectives... ......*.............                 ........         11
Description.......... .**.* .......            ,       ..... ,      12
Detailed Features .... ............. *....            ....          12
Cost Estimates and Financing..............................         14
Procurement. ..      ...........  ............   ........           16
17
This report is based on the findings of a joint IDA/IFAD project preparation
mission and an IDA appraisal mission which visited China during April/May 1983
and September 1983 respectiveLy. In addition to the proposed project, the
preparation mission also helped prepare a separate project for financing by
IFAD.  Members of the preparation mission were S.J. Khoo, r..  t.Wiens, I.C.
Porter (IDA),  M. Majid (IFAD), W. Bitters, L.C. Chen, J. Kitson, M. O'Connor
and S.E. Ong (Consultants). The appraisal mission comprised S.J. Khoo, T.B.
Wiens, I.C. Porter (IDA) and M. Johnson, A. Brown and N. Byron (Consultants).
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.     PROJECT IMPLENENTATTION .....................................    18
Organization and Management  .                .    .              18
Subloan Terms and Conditions.......................               19
Accounts, Audit, Monitoring and Eva1uation..luatio.. n..          20
Envirotimental Impact.....P.....*. .......... 9* ......... P        21
VI.     MARKETS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES .................. ...... ...    21
Market Prospects.. . .................            * .             21
Prices ......... .....                *-9 * * ..............      22
Farm Incomes aad E     met......                                  23
VII.     BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS................,.........    23
Production Benefits..... ...... ..... .. . .     , . . . a ....   23
Other Benefits. ,.. P P  * P    .. . P P  * . . .. . .. . . . ..P P a   . P . P  24
Financialj tinalysis.......*,........... .                        24
Economic Analysis ........ .......               .........        25
Risks .................                       ......P.... . .     26
VIII.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................    26
ANNEXES
1.  Table 1:  Consolidated Balance Sheet of the Agricultural Bank of China,
1982
Table 2:  Consolidated Income Statement of the Agricultural Bank of China,
1982
2.  Agriculture in Guangxi
3.  ABC's Operations in Guangxi
4. Table l: Economic Prices for Traded Goods
Table 2: Selected Conversion Factors for Inputs
5.  Tables on Investment Costs and Financial Analysis of Selected Subprojects
Table la:  Mandarin Oranges (Guangxi) Unit Cost for Investment
Table lb:  Mandarin Oranges (Guangxi) Investment in Fixed Capital
Table lc:  Mandarin Oranges (Guangxi) Unit Costs for Production
Table Id:  Mandarin Oranges (Guangxi) Financial Returns
Table le:  Mandarin Oranges (Guangxi) Project Financing
Table Za:  Unit Costs for Anise Production



1 iii -
Table 2b:  Financial Returns to Anise Production
Table 2c:  Star Anise Project Financing
Table 3a:  Freshwater Fisheries (Guangxi) Unit Cost for Investment
Table 3b:  Freshwater Fisheries (Guangxi) Investment in Fixed Capital
Table 3c:  Freshwater Fisheries (Guangxi) Unit Cost8 for Production
Table 3d:  Freshwater Fisheries (Guangxi) Financ.iaL Returns
Table 3e:  Freshwater Fisheries (Guangxi) Project Financing
Table 4a:  Cattle Breeding (Guangxi) Unit Cost for Investment
Table 4b:  Cattle Breeding (Guangxi) Investment Costs
Table 4c:  Cattle Breeding (Guangxi) Unit Costs for Production
Table 4d:  Cattle Breeding (Guangxi) Financial Returns with Project
Table 4e:  Cattle Breeding (Guangxi) Financial Returns without Project
Table 4f:  Cattle Breeding (GuangMi) Project Financing
Table 5a:  Poultry Breeding Investment in Fixed Capital
Table 5b:  Poultry Breeding Operation Cost
Table 5c:  Poultry Breed!ng Financial Returns
Table 5d:  Poultry Breeding Project Financilag
6.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
7.  Related Documents and Data in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 17483R1



CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.0!      The Government of China has requested an IDA credit of US$50 million
equivalent to support the medium- and long-tenm lending program of the Agri-
cultural Bank of China (ABC). Project funds will be channelled through the
ABC and used to finance investments for the development of orchard and other
tree crops, livestock, aquaculture and agro-processing in Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region (attached Map 13RD 17483R1). The project also includes a
technical assistance component to strengthen the operations of ABC.
The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Agrictilture, including livestock, forestry and fisheries, provides
basic sustenancet tu China's populat-.on of about one billion people. This sec-
tor accounts for some 35% of the couantry's GOP and is the main source of live-
lihood for the rural population of 800 million. Only about 100 million ha of
China's land area of 960 million are arable.  Farming systems are intensive,
with large inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizer and water. Nearly
half of the arable land is Irrfgated.  Foodgrains occupy 80% of the cropland
and account for 65% of total agricultural output. This intensive system of
food production allows China to meet the basic food requirements of its popu-
lation (about 22% of the world's total) from less than 8% of the world's
arable land. Agricultural production is carried out in people's communes,
state farms and privately managed plots which account for about 87, 5 and 8%,
respectively of the country's arable land and 80, 4 and 16% respectively of
the gross value of agricultural production.
1.03      Agricultural deveLopment has been accorded high priority since the
foundinrg of the People's Republic. Investment in agriculture has averaged
about 20% of total national investment and recent economic reforms have been
designed to increase the efficiency of investment in the sector. Despite
declining per capita availability of arable land, efforts to develop China's
agriculture have been broadly successful.  Food production has expanded more
rapidly than population growth and a food security system has been put into
place which provides adequate basic nutrients to most of China's population.
The agricultural sector grew by about 3.2% p.a. in the 1955-79 period and by
more than 5% on average since 1979. There has also been a substantial diver-
sification of the agricuLtural sector in recent years with the rapid expansion
of cash crops, sueh as oilseeds, cotton and sugar, and livestock. Reflecting
population and income growth and diversion of larger quantities of grain to
livestock feeding, aet grain imports have risen in recent years to about
15 million tons p.a., or less than 5% of total consumption. Exports of raw
and processed agricultural products contribute about 27% of all foreign
exchange earnings.



- 2 -
1.04      The Government controls the pricing and marketing of most
agricultural products and inputs. It fixes annual production quotas for the
major crops such as grains, oilseeds and industrial crops (cotton, sugar and
rubber) and purchases them at predetermined prices.  Production In excess of
the quotas can be sold to the Government at negotiated prices or on the free
market. Minor crops, such as vegetables, and other products grown in house-
hold plots, are sold in rural markets at prices regulated by the provinces or
c-unties.  Economic reforms since 1976 have decentralized production deci-
sions, substantially increased prices paid for most agricultural products,
increased the maximum area allowed in household plots, expanded the role of
rural markets and emphasized the role of loan finance through the Agricultural
Bank of China rather than grant finance of rural development projects.
Institutional reforms in 1982 combined several government agencies involved in
agric,ltural product marketing and input distribution to improve the effi-
ciency of these activities.
1.05      A major task of China's agricultural sector will be to expand and
diversify agricultural production to meet the food and agricultural raw
material requirements occasioned by population growth and gains in per capita
income. The land constraint will require steady increases in yields from
already cropped areas and the growing problem of surplus rural labor will make
job creation an increasingly important policy objective of the Government. To
meet these challenges the Government is implementing new policies aimed at
giving rural workers more production incentives. Area quotas for particular
crops have been relaxed, although minimum grain marketing quotas are still
maintained. Production incentives are encouraging crop specialization in
economically suited areas and the production of industrial crops is being
fostered by assuring supplies of food grains to farm workers in those areas.
Incentives to workers on both communes and state farms are being improved to
link rewards more closely with work effort. In addition it will be necessary
to use the few retaaining opportunities to expand the cultivated area, increase
cropping intensity and yields on existing cultivated areas throughi relatively
quick yielding land and water resource projects, increase investment
efficiency, and introduce high yielding crop varieties and practices through
research and education.
Bank Group Assistancc to Agriculture
1.06      The objectives of Bank Group assistance to Chinese agriculture are
to: (a) assist China in expanding and diversifying agricultural production to
keep pace with the rapidly growing demand for food and other farm produce
resulting from population growth and increases in per capita incomes;
(b) finance inputs which will help remove development constraints; (c) help
improve economic efficiency through better planning and improved project
analysis; and (d) reduce poverty by raising rural earning power in the poorer
regions of the country. These objectives are being pursued through both
project lending and sector work.
1.07      The first Bank Group lending in the agricultural sector, a $60 mil-
lion IDA credit for the North China Plain Agriculture Project (Credit 1261-
CHA; June 15, 1982) will provide irrigation and drainage for 200,000 ha
covering parts of nine counties in three ptovinces. Work on this project, the



- 3 -
first large-scale attack on soil salinity and waterlogging in China, is
proceeding well. A second project, the Agricultural Education and Research
Project (Credit 1297-CHA; November 2, 1982) for $75 million, will support the
Government's program to strengthen higher education and research in the
agrlcultural sector by providing technical assistance and equipment to selec-
ted agricultural colleges and research institutes.  Inplementation of the
project is progressing satisfactorily. The Heilongjiang Land Reclamationi
Project (Loan/Credit 2261/1347-CRA; April 18, 1983) will develop 200,000 ha on
state farms in Northeast China by constructing surface drains and access roads
and providing various agricultural machinery and other support services to
increase marketable surpluses of wheat, maize and soybeans. Procurcrient of
the equipment is underway. The Rubber Development Project (Credit 1417-CHA;
November 29, 1983) will assist in new planting and replanting of 40,000 ha of
rubber in Guangdong Province. Future project possibilities include irrigation
and drainage, agricultural research, seeds development, forestry, support
services for livestock and fisheries development, and integrated rural
development in poor areas, as well as further rural credit projects.
1.08      A survey of the sector undertaken as part of the Bank's 1980
economic report covered natural resources, policies, institutions, output,
productivity and future prospects. This was followed by a study of the rural
finance system, an overview of agricultural pricing, and a study of trends in
food and nutrient availability. A number of sector studies, now in progress
as contributions to the Bank's 1984 economic report, will examine long-term
development prospects in the sector. These studies will cover such topics as
food supply and demand, land and water development potential, livestock
prospects, fertilizer requirements, and the outlook for yield improvement in
major crops.
Project Rationale
1.09      The project would be part of a high priority development effort by
the Government to increase agricultural and rural production and incomes
through the diversification and modernization of agricultural production and
processing. This is a major rationale for Bank Group involvement in the
project. As part of the overall program of economic reform that is now
underway in China, the Government is increasing the role and autonomy of the
banking system and making more use of credit instead of grant finance of
development projects as a means of improving investment efficiency.  The
Government's encouragement of household agricultural activities and individual
enterprises through expanding the area of privately managed plots and increas-
ing use of the production responsibility system has also led to a rapidly
expanding demand by households and individuals for loan funds from the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC). ABC is the major source of institutional
credit for agriculture and rural development in China. It has a wide network
of offices which serve households, collectives and state enterprises through-
out the rural areas of China. However, ABC staff have little experience with
sound technical, financial and economic analysis of development projects and
ABC's lending for such projects has been constrained by the limited avail-
ability of long-term funds. The other major rationale for Bank Group
involvement in this project is therefore to increase the availability of
medium- and long-term funds to ABC and to assist ABC in develo,ping and



- 4 -
implementing improved procedures and methodology for appraising agriculture
and rural development projects and to improve its operations. Bank Group
involvement will also enable ABC and the technical bureaus at the regional and
local level to gain access to foreign expertise in new or specialized agricul-
tural subsectors where such expertise would be particularly useful.
II. AGRICULTURAL BANK OF CHINA
2.01      As part of the Government's program of economic reform; major
changes have caken place in the structure of the banking system in recent
years. Attention is also being paid to the role of the banks in mobilizing
savings and Improving investment efficiency as well as to their more tradi-
tional roles of channelling government budgetary funds and helping control
state and collective enterprises. A separate agricultural bank was in exis-
tence for short periods during the 1950s and 1960s but for most of the time
the basic functions of a rural credit system were carried out by the large
network of rural credit cooperatives (RCCs), while the more formal rural bank-
ing activities were the responsibility of the Agricultural Finance Department
of the People's Bank of China (PBC). PBC itself acted as an administrative
organ for government financial management, as a central bank and as a commer-
cial bank. In February 1979, however, the State Council restored the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) and urged that it henceforth become the dom-
inant institution in the mobilization of rural savings and the financing of
agriculture and rural development. This newly-established ABC consists
essentially of the staff, offices and other physical facilities of what had
been the PBC's Agricultural Finance Department. In September 1983 the State
Council changed the functions of PBC to being exclusively those of a central
bank with powers to control the activities of specialized banks such as the
ABC.
Objectives, Organization, Staffing and Training
2.02      Objectives.  ABC's general objective is to contribute to the effec-
tive execution of Government economic policy throughout the rural areas of
China. Its rctivities extend beyond agricultural lending to include the
financing ot rural commercial and industrial activities which support agricul-
ture and rural development. In addition to its main tasks of mobilizing rural
financial resources, extending credit, and channeling public funds to rural
areas, ABC supplies a wide range of banking services to the rural areas, and
provides leadership to the RCCs and financial guidance to communes, brigades
and teams.
2.03     O2ranization.  The ABC is headed by a President who is assisted by
six vice presidents. It has eight departments (planning, personnel, staff
supervision, collective enterprises, accounting, rural credit cooperatives,
state-owned enterprises, and general affairs). ABC also has a research insti-
tute responsible for policy research and related matters. The planning
department plays a major coordinating role in ABC's operations and is also
responsible for the collection of statistics. A basically similar organiza-
tional structure exists at ABC's provincial and regional branch offices.



- 5 -
2.04      At the end of 1982, ABC had 27 branch offices in the provincil
capitals, municipalities (Shanghai and Tianjin) and autonomous,regions,-
288 central subbranches at the prefecture or district level, 86 business
offices at major urban centers, 2,211 subbranches at county level,
24,803 offices at commune level and 403 offices on state farms. The bank is
therefore represented at all administrative levels with more than 27,800
offices. In addition to the above network, there are about 59,000 RCCs which
are effectively part of the ABC network. This means that virtually all of
China's 53,000 communes and 2,000 state farms have at least one ABC office or
RCC in their area. This extensive national coverage is a major strength ini
ABC's total operations and  reflects ABC's role as banker to the rural commu-
nity as well as its responsibility as the financial agent of the central and
local governments for the rural areas of China.
2.05      Staffing.  ABC has a total staff of some 285,000.  Of this total,
nearly one-fourth are women. The staff at the head office in Beijing is small
(about 300 persons) reflecting the decentralized character of the bank. In
addition to the ABC employees, the RCCs employ some 250,000 staff on a full or
part-time basis. A small proportion of the ABC stafZ, (less than 5%) are
university graduates. Local office managers and department heads are usually
graduates of middle-level schools.
2.06      Training.  Most ABC and RCC staff at the local level have had many
years of experience in rural finance and ABC is able to select suitable new
staff from middle school leavers. At a higher level only a very small number
of university graduates are being assigned to ABC and in general it relies on
either the graduates of the banking schools (two years of training after
middle school) or in-house training and part time courses at local colleges or
universities. Established and fully funded by the PBC, the banking schools,
of which there is one in each province, provide training for the staff of PBC,
ABC and the Bank of China. The major emphasis of both formal and in-house
training is on accounting. ABC staff are generally not trained in project
appraisal methodology. To help address this issue the Economic Development
Institute (EDI) gave a two month rural credit course in Shanghai in September/
October 1983 and plans similar courses in 1984 and 1985. But this will meet
only a small proportion of ABC's needs. A .raining program in appraisal
methodology is now being developed (see para. 4.10) and is expected to pay
attractive returns in terms of increased efficiency in the use of ABC's
financial resources.
Operating Policies and Procedures
2.07      ABC is in charge of banking and financial administration in rural
areas nationwide. It mobilizes deposits and undertakes seasonal as well as
development lending. Since the mid-1970s ABC (and its predecessor department
in the People's Bank) has moved substantially from a position as a simple
financing channel of the Government to that of a semi-independent bank. ABC
/1   The ABC has no branch offices in Beijing or Xizang Autonomous Region,
where agricultural lending is the responsibility of the PBC.



- 6 -
now has considerably more atuthority regarding individual investment decisions
at the local level than did its predecessor several years ago and is playing
an increasingly important role in rural investment finaxacing with the switch
in emphasis from grarnt to loan financing of rural development projects.
2.08      Project Appraisal.  In recent years ABC has been attempting to
improve the quality of its project appraisal work. Particular emphasis has
been placed on ensuring that projects conform to the state plan and overall
government policy, that the necessary supplies and materials are available and
that there are markets for the project output. However, project proposals are
still not reviewed in much detail; there is little examination of issues of
scale, technology, location and timing of proposed projects; and no formal
financial or economic analysis using discounting techniques is carried out,
although pay-back periods are calculated and used as supplementary criteria
for investment decisions. Subprojects that will be financed under the pro-
posed rural credit project will be subject to much more detailed technical,
financial and economic analysis using criteria and procedures set down in a
project appraisal manual (see para. 5.05). Based on the experience gained
with the appraisal of these subprojects ABC expects to use such techniques
much more widely in its project appraisal work.
2.09      Pro ect Approval.  Sound project appraisal by ARC has become more
important as the autonomy granted to ABC has increased. Laige projects
requiring funds from ABC and especially those in industry and commerce still
require approval by local government planning committees and relevant line
agencies as well as by ABC. But in the case of smaller projects and almost
all agricultural projects the planning committee decides only on the total
amount of loans to be made (taking into account available materials and
supplies and other sources of finance). The ABC then approves the allocation
of those resources among different types of projecte and different areas and
c,ommunes. Procedures for loan approval by the ABC have been established by
ABC Beijing and are uniform throughout the country. At present ABC and RCC
offices at the commune level and on state farms have authority to approve
agricultural loans of up to Y10,000 to individuals/households and up to
Y 30,000 to collective units and other borrowers. Loans in excess of these
limits and up to Y 100,000 require the approval of ABC's county offices.
Loans larger than this amouint require approval by ABC's provincial offices.
2.10      Project Supervision and Evaluation.  ABC is placing increased
emphasls on project supervision and evaluation. It enters into a formal con-
tractual arrangement with the borrowing unit. The loan contracc stipulates
loan amounts and disbursement schedules, specifies the type, quality, quantity
and delivery times for the equipment, indicates the -epayment schedule for the
borrower, and requires the timely repayment of the loan. The contract also
provides for remedies in the event of default such as suspension of loan dis-
bursements, acceleration of loan maturity and penalty lntereit. ABC uses
these contracts as the basis for project supervision. On completion of a
project ABC compares the actual use of funds with stated intent and production
qchievements are measured against targets. Efforts are also made by ABC to
assess the lending experience gained as a guide to future loan operations.



-7-
Interest Rates
2.11      Lending Rates.  Recent economic reforms, including banking system
reforms, have increased the potential roLe of interest rates in the Chinese
economy and lending and deposit rates hava been raised significantly. In the
case of lendirig rates, thte pattern is still one of lower rates for medium- and
longer-term (mostly equipment) loans than for short-term production expense
loans. At the beginning of 1982 ABC increase(d its rate on short-term agricul-
tural louns fromt 4.32% to 5.76% p.a. Rates on medium- and longer-term agri-
cultural loans were also increased from 2.16% to 4.32% for individual farmers
and collectives and from 4.32% to 5.04% for state enterprises. The rates were
further increased at the beginning of 1984 from 5.76% to 7.2% p.a. for short-
term agricultural loans, and from 4.32% to 5.04% for medium and longer-term
agricultural loans to individual farmers and collectives to match the rate for
state enterprises. Given the current domest:Lc inflation rate of 2% p.a. this
implies that ABC's lending rates are now significantly positive in real terms
except for relief loans (a small element in ABC's loan portfolio) which are
provided at zero interest. ABC expects its Lending rates to remain positive.
2.12      Deposit Rates.  During the last thres' years there have been a series
of increases in the interest rates payable by ABC on individual deposits.
Individual demand deposits now earn interest at a rate of 2.88% p.a. and rates
on individual time deposits range from 4.32% p.a. for a six-month deposit to
9.00% p.a. for an eight-year deposit. Iuterest rates payable by ABC on depo-
sits of organizations range from 1.8% p.a. for demand deposits to 5.04% p.a.
for a three-year time deposit. China has had a history of geaerally positive
real interest rates on deposits and this has probably contributed to the good
performance of savings in rural areas. ABC incurs a small loss on some of its
fixe.l term deposits paying as much as 9% p.a. while charging only 7.2% p.a.
for short-term agricultural loans and 5.04% for longer-term agricultural
loans. However, this loss is more than offset by profits on other aspects of
its operations.
Sources and Uses of Funds
2.13      ABC's sources of funds comprise mainly deposits and capital contri-
butions from the central government.  The capital contribution from the
central government totalled Y 22 billion at the end oL 1982 (up from Y 20 bil-
lion at the end of 1980). Major deposits (both demand and time) as of
December 31, 1982 were those of the RCCs (Y 30.3 billion), individuals
(Y 5.4 billion), state-owned agricultural enterprises (Y 5.1 billion), rural
ccmmercial enterprises (Y 4.8 billion), local governments (Y 3.6 billion) and
other (mostly PBC) deposits (Y 1.1 billion). Sources of RCC financing include
deposits from individuals, conmunes, brigades and teams, operating profits,
member subscriptions and loans from ABC. At the end of 1982 the RCCo had
total deposits of Y 39.0 billion and loans from ABC of Y 1.1 billion. In
general RCC deposits with ABC exceed ABC loans to the RCCs i.e., they are net
suppliers of funds to ABC. Deposit policy of both the ABC and the RCCs empha-
sizes voluntarism in deposits and withdrawals, confidentiality, and payment of
interest on all deposits by individuals and collective units.



- 8 -
2.14      ABC's iotal loans outstanding as of the end of 1982 amounted to
Y 61.8 billion -  (about US$ 30.9 billion).  About 80% of the portfolio are
short-term loans. Loans to commercial organizations (mostly short term loans
to supply and marketing cooperatives) accounted for 65% of the portfolio,
loans to communes, brigades and teams 27%, loans to state-owned agricultural
enterprises 4%, loans to the RCCs 2%, loans to individuals 1%, and loans for
crop advances 1%. In addition to lending its own funds, ABC acts as an agent
for the People's Bank in a number of fields, of which the most important have
been loans to the commercial departments of the Ministry of Food and Commerce
for the purchase of agricultural commodities from producing units. These
amounts, which are generally on-lent by ABC on a commission basis, are
substantial (Y 14.8 billion at the end of 1982).
2.15      The RCC loan portfolio has grown rapidly - more than doubling (103%)
between 1979 and 1981 - largely reflecting sharp increases in loans to commune
and brigade enterprises and to individuals. By the end of 1981, loans to
individuals were 71% as large in total volume as all agricultural loans to
communes and brigades. It was 48% at the end of 1979. As production on pri-
vate plots increases and as the production responsibility system expands, RCCs
are likely to become increasingly important in generating deposits and mak4.ng
loans. Loans to individuaL8 could become the fastest growing element in the
RCC loan portfolio. The continuing rapid growth in RCC lending is reflected
in its year-end  _;al loans outstanding of Y12.12 billion in 1982 compared
with Y9.64 billion in 1981, an increase of 26%.
2.16      ABC reported a profit of Y 1,153 million in 1982.  Revenues were
derived from interest earnings (Y 2,791 million), and agency fees and interest
from deposits (Y 1,892 million). Expenditures were mainly for interest paid
(Y 2,303 million), administration, including salaries (Y 689 million), and
compensation to lower-level units for negative interest rate spreads
(Y 126 million). Administration costs of less than 2% of total resources
employed are relatively low by international standards and reflect generally
low salaries. The consolidated balance sheet and income statement of ABC for
1982 reflecting its summarized financial operations and performance are given
in Annex 1.
2.17      ABC does not have detailed information on its loan overdues which
are generally rolled over and kept nominally current. Bad debt losses are not
accounted for separately and a separate allowance for bad debts is not provid-
ed in ABC's consolidated accounts. However, ABC estimates that bad debts
currently are less than 1% of loans outstanding and that recoveries of sort-
term agricultural loans in 1981 were over 92% of loans made in the same
year. To help maintain and improve its loan recovery performance ABC places
considerable emphasis on full and timely repayment of its loans (para. 2.10).
/2 This does not include loans by the RCCs.



- 9-
Accounting Systems and Auditing
2.18      In most provitLces ABC has an adequate number of accounting and
statistical staff at all levels. Few of these are experienced in compre-
hensive financial analysis, but they prepare timely, consistent and detailed
records. ABC requires the financial accounts to be balanced daily at each
office. Summary details are reported by commune-level offices every two weeks
by telephone to the county office and commune-level accountants come to the
county once per month to reconcile accounts. County offices report monthly to
provincial offices which in turn send det.iled accounts to headquarters every
s'x months. Statistics on loan operations, which vary from province to pro-
vince but which always compare actual operations with loan targets in the cre-
dit plan, are sent forward to provincial levels on a similar schedule. These
statistics are quite detailed with reference to types of investments financed,
geographic location of subprojects, expected incremental production, etc.
2.19      The accounts of ABC headquarters are audited by the Ministry of
Finance, elthough the auditing appears to be only a fairly cursory check.
Recent moves to restore auditing in China; especially the establishment in
September 1983 of the State Audit Agency (SAA), and emphasis on financial
accountability are expected to lead in the future to a satisfactory external
auditing of ABC's accounts and improvement of its internal auditing. Directly
accountable to the State Council, the SAA has indicated that it is expected to
audit all Bank-financed projects but that its capability of carrying this out
can only be built up gradually and over an extended period because of its lack
of experienced auditing staff. In this connection, the Bank has recently
conducted a seminar on auditing for lhe SAM staff and is planning to further
assist the SAA in the training of suitably qualified auditing staff.
III. PROJECT AREA AND BENEFICIARIES
3.01      Given that its staff have generally not been trained in project
appraisal methodology and to facilitate the preparation and implementation of
its initial credit project with IDA financing, ABC in consultation with IDA
has decided that it would be prudent to limit, the geographical scope of the
project to Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region.- Selection of Guangxi for the
proposed project has been determined by:
(a) Guangxi is a poor area and alleviation of rural poverty in such an
area is a priority objective of the Govermment.
(b) The climatic conditions and soils in Guangxi are suitable for
growing a wide range of crops.
3/   It should be pointed out that ABC had in fact decided to have two credit
projects, one covering Guangxi province financed by IDA and the other
covering Hubei province financed by IFAD. The projects are to be
implemented at about the same time.



- 10 -
(c) The leadership in Guangxi has expressed strong support for the
project and the proposed subprojects are to be included in the
development plan of the Region. This would ensure the adequate and
timely provision of local funds and other inputs required by the
project.
(d) The ABC offices and government technical bureaus (agriculture, live-
stock, fisheries, eLc.) in the Region are keenly interested in and
have initiated steps to participate in the project, including
determination of the proposed subprojects and training of staff.
3.02      Guangxi is located in Southeast China bordering Vietnam and due West
of Guangdong province (attached Map IBRD 17483R1). It has a population of
about 37 million. In terms of per capita distributive collective income,
Guangxi was the eighth poorest of all the 29 provinces and autonomous regions
in 1981. The agricultural situation and the operations of the ABC in Guangxi
are described below and further details are given in Annexes 2 and 3.
Agricultural Situation
3.03      Most of Guangxi is subtropical or tropical with average temperatures
ranging from 13°C in January to 290C in July and annual rainfall exceeding
1,100 mm. The region has a varied terrain with mountains accounting for 64%
of the area and hills and terraces 19%; plains which are generally small and
scattered account for about 14% and there is some fresh water area. About 60%
of the cultivated area is subject to some form of irrigaLion and the cropping
intensity is about 180%. Crop production accounts for about 62% of the gross
value of agricultural output. Grain production (mostly rice) has increased
rapidly in recent years (4% p.a. since 1970 and 6.5% p.a. in 1980-82) due
almost entirely to yield improvements. Guangxi is also an important producer
of sugarcane, jute, tobacco and fruits (mostly citrus) which account for 18%,
8%, 3% and 4% respectively of national production. Other agricultural subsec-
tors including livestock, fisheries, forestry and agro-processing have also
performed well in recent years and are being strongly encouraged 'iv provincial
authorities.
ABC Organization and Operations
3.04      The ABC organization in Guangxi includes one regional office in
Nanning, 12 municipal or prefectural offices, 82 county offices, 974 commune
offices and 25 offices on state farms. In additic.n, 1,728 RCCs and 3,087 RCC
credit stations provide services at the commune a-nd brigade levels. ABC has a
staff of about 11,390, 63% of whom work at the commune -and state farm
levels; the total RCC staff is about 11,360. Sixty percent of ABC and RCC
staff have been involved in banking for more than 20 years but only 8% of ABC
staff have university qualifications. The Banking School in Nanning provides
a two year course in rural finance for ABC staff (enrollment is currently
150 students per year but will increase to 200 in 1984) and also assists ABC
with short term courses and in-service training programs.



- 11 -
3.05      ABC Guangxi's sources of financing comprise mainly deposits
(Y 892 million at the end of 1982) and equity funds provided by ABC Beijing
(Y 636 million at the end of 1982). Loaus outstanding at the end of 1982
amounted to Y 1,681 million, 20% of whi'Th were medium and long term loans,
i.e., over one year. ABC Guangxi reported a profit of Y 37 million for 1982.
Other Support Services
3.06      Research and Extension.  In Guangxi ABC relies heavily on the
agricultural, livestock, fisheries and Light industry bureaus for technical
guidance and assistance. These bureaus receive technical guidance from the
appropriate ministries in Beijing and have offices at provincial, prefectural
and county levels. These offices are responsible for supervising local
research and experiment stations and providing technical guidance to techini-
cians at the commune, brigade and team levels. The technical bureaus and
offices at appropriate levels will play a critical role in project appraisal
and supervision (see para. 5.04).
3.07      Marketing.  Guangxi has a network of supply and marketing
cooperatives reaching down to the commune and state farm level which supply
fertilizers, pesticides, feeds and equipment to households, collectives and
state enterprises and purchase agricultural outputs. There are also specia-
lized companies supplying seeds, various types of machinery, etc., and pur-
chasing certain specialized products such as citrus. In addition, rural free
markets are playing an increasingly important role.
Project Beneficiaries
3.08      Project beneficiaries would be mainly collective units or enter-
prises and individual households. A least 95% of Guangxi's rural population
are part of the collective sector. Collectives in agriculture have been
undergoing major changes in organization and management in recent years and
the household responsibility system is now in operation for many activities
and in most arc-as. As a result ABC will, under the project, be providing
medium- and long-term loans directly to individual households as well as to
communes, production brigades and production teams.. In addition there are
also a number of agricultural enterprises under state or joint state collec-
tive ownership. These are particularly important in the agro-processing
sector but there are also state owned units in fisheries and livestock which
fulfill a demonstration and service as well as a production function. Some of
the funds under the project will be used to assist these enterprises.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The project would provide funds to subborrowers in Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region to finance investments for the development of orchard and
other tlee crops, aquaculture, livestock and agro-processing. Project funds



- 12 -
would be channelled through the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) to subbor-
rowers comprising collective units (communes, production brigades and produc-
tion teams), individuaL farmers and households, and state-owned enterprises.
ABC expects that of the total project loan funds, some two-thirds would be
accounted by farmers (as nembers of households and collective units) and the
remaining one-third by state-owned enterprises. The project would also
finance a technical assistance component. The major objectives of the project
are to (a) support a three-year lending program of the ABC which would be part
of a high priority government development effort to increase agricultural and
rural production and incomes through the diversification and modernization of
agricultural production and processing, and (b) assist ABC in developing and
implementing inproved procedures and methodology for appraising agriculture
and rural development projects. Other objectives are aimed at expanding rural
employment and making fuller use of the ample rural labor force, alleviating
rural poverty, raising the value added of agricultural production, improving
production efficiency, and increasing the supply and quality of agricultural
produce, including processed foods, to consumers.
Description
4.02      The project would have the following components:
(a) subloans for investments in:
(i) orchard (mainly citrus) and other tree crops;
(ii) culture of freshwater and marine fisheries;
(iii) livestock, comprising beef/draft cattle, poultry and pigs;
(iv) agro-processing; and
(b)  technical assistance for the institutional strengthening of the ABC.
Detailed Features
4.03      Orchard and Other Tree Crops.  This component would provide for the
establishment of new plantings and improvements to existing plantings amount-
ing to about 9,000 ha of orchards and 9,600 ha of other tree crops. The
orchards would comprise orange (mainly mandarin orange), pomelo, lichi and
longan. Other tree crops would include mainly star anise, cassia, eucalyptus
and camphor. Orchard development would account for about four-fifths of the
component's total investment cost. Major investment costs would be for land
preparation (clearing, leveling and terracing), irrigation facilities and
equipment, planting materials, fertilizers, pesticides, spraying equipment,
other small hand tools and labor. The component would also finance production
inputs until the initial crop is produced. Newly established plantings would
in some cases be intercropped with cassava, peanuts, soybeans or other
vegetables over the first few years until the area is sufficiently shaded over
by the trees.



- 13 -
4.04      The development of orchard and other tree crops would be undertaken
by about 105 collective units (involving some 70,000 households) and 10 state-
owned enterprises. Subloans would only be provided for the establishment of
those crops where planting materials (varieties) and soils are considered
suitable by' Guangxi's Academy of Agricultural Sciences.
4.05      Fisheries.  This component would finance the construction of new
fishponds, including supporting infrastructure and equipment such as dykes,
drains, canals, sluice gates, turn-down pipes, access roads, earth excavators,
pumping stations to control the flow of water into and out of the fishponds,
manure holding pits, fishing gear, boats, fish breeding ponds and nurseries,
and improvements to existtng fishponds to expand the production of carp,
tilapia, shrimp and pearls, and to rale their yields. Construction of new
fishponds may entail partitioning of 1.rge water bodies, such as lakes or
reservoirs, into smaller fish ponds or .aking new fish ponds by surrounding
shallow parts of such weter bodies with dykes. The improvements to existing
fishponds would consist of partitioning the ponds for more efficient
operation, raising the sezondary dykes and ditches, deepening and leveling of
pond bottoms and canals, and constructing additional sluice gates or turn-down
pipes.
4.06      The investments to be financed would al_o include fish f'eed
processing facilities, growing of green manure, and the costs of fry, organic
manure and fertilizers, pesticides and feed required to produce the first har-
vest from the ponds. Sonae 3,000 ha of ponds would be developed by about
70 collective units and 20 state-owned enterprises. A few project farms are
expected to be fish hatcheries raising fry and fingerlings exclusively for
sale.  Freshwater fisheries would account for the majority of the total pond
area (75%) as well the total investment cost (70%).
4.07      Livestock.  Activities to be financed under this component would
comprise the development of beef/draft cattle, poultry and pigs, including
livestock breeding to expand the supply of improved stock, especially chicks
and piglets, to households engaged in the rearing of such stock. Major
investment items would incLude procurement of improved breeding stock to up-
grade local stock, cattle sheds, pig and poultry pens, incubators, feed stor-
age facilities, vehicles to transport improved animals to households, veteri-
nary facilities, establishment of improved pastures mainly on slopelsad pre-
sently under wild grasses, and supporting equipment, such as feed choppers,
watering facilities, hauling carts, etc. The establishment cost of improved
pastures would be mainly for land preparation, fencing, seed, fertilizers,
manure, lime and labor. 'he costs of calves, chicks, feedgrains and labor
required to raise the initial batch of livestock for sale would also be
financed.
4.08      Development of beef/draft cattle would be based on improved pastures
sown to legumes to provide essentially all of the feed input in the form of
low-cost, high-quality forage so that little or no feed concentrates which are
costly would be required. Beef/draft cattle would account for about 50% of
the total investment cost under this component. Subloan recipients would



- 14 -
consist of state-owned enterprises, collective units and households. Most of
the state-owned enterprises would be engaged in producing improved stock for
distribution to the collectives and households.
4.09      Agro-processing.  This component would include the construction and
equipping of plants for the processing of cassava starch, essential oils,
animal feeds, fish and pearl. Improvements to existing processing facilities
would also be financed. Starch and essential oils would account for about
two-thirds of th,  total investment cost for this component.  The investments
would be undertaken by some 12 state-owned enterprises.
4.10      Technical Assistance.  The project would provide a technical
assistance component aimed at strengthening the operations of the ABC.
Project funds would be used mainly for training of technical and managerial
staff, technical experts to assist in developing a plan for an improved infor-
mation and data management system, including evaluating the economic benefits
and impact of project lending, project preparation, and supporting equipment
to enable ABC Guangxi to implement the project effectively through proper
appraisal, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of project investments. The
training would consist of (a) overseas study tours for senior mariagement and
operations staff to broaden their competence in development credit and data
processing, and (b) local training programs in auditing, information and data
management systems, project appraisal methodology and procedures as set out in
ABC's project appraisal manual (see para. 5.05), and project monitoring and
evaluation (para. 5.13).  Approxinately 12 man-months of short-teri foreign
experts would be required at a total cost of about US$130,000. The average
man-month cost of the experts (individuals' fees, international travel and
local allowances) is expected to be about US$10,000. The total estimated cost
also includes provision for the cost of vehicles, local travel and other minor
items.  Investment items of supporting er'uipment would include micro-
computers, room air conditioning units for the micro-computers, xerographic
copiers, business calculators, and audio-visual equipment, such as TV sets,
video cameras, video recorders and tape recorders, to support training of
staff based on lectures transmitted via television from Beijing (Annex 3,
para. 6). A more specific training and technical assistance program brought
by ABC to negotiations has been reviewed and agreed to by IDA. During nego-
tiatiorLs, assurances were obtained that (a) the training of ABC staff would be
carried out in accordance with the program agreed to between IDA and ABC, and
(b) technical experts would be employed in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the use of consultants.
Cost Estimates and Financing
4.11      Cost Estimates.  A summary of the cost estimates by project
components is presented in Table 4.1 below:



- 15 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total         %
---- (Y million) ----   --- (US$ million) ---  foreign
Orchard & other
tree crops
Orchard /a             88.6      4.6    93.2    44.3        2.3    46.6
Other tree crops /b   24.0       1.2    25.2    12.0        0.6    12.6
Subtotal              112.6      5.8   118.4    56.3        2.9    59.2       5
Fisheries
Fresh water ponds         29.8      2.6    32.4    14.9       1.3    16.2
Marine water ponds /c   13.8        1.2    15.0      6.9      0.6      7.5
Subtotal               43.6      3.8    47.4    21.8        1.9    23.7       8
Livestock
Beef/draft cattle         13.4      2.8    16.2      6.7      1.4      8.1
Poultry                    9.5      1.9    11.4      4.7      1.0      5.7
Other livestock /d         3.8      0.8     4.6      1.9      0.4      2.3
Subtotal                26.7     5.5    32.2    13.3        2.8    16.1      17
Agro-processing
Starch                     3.9      2.5     6.4      1.9      1.3      3.2
Essential oils             3.0      2.0     5.0      1.5      1.0      2.5
Other processing /e        3.5      2.3     5.8      1.8      1.1      2.9
Subtotal                10.4     6.8    17.2       5.2      3.4     8.6      40
Technical assistance
Institutional
strengthening of ABC       0.6      1.4     2.0      0.3      0.7      1.0
Subtotal                   0.6     1.4      2.0      0.3      0.7     1.0      70
Base cost (September
1983 prices)             193.9    23.3   217.2    96.9    11.7   108.6
Ph'sical contingency    19.4        2.3    21.7      9.7      1.2    10.9
Expected price
increases               41.0     4.9    45.9    20.5        2.4    22.9
Total Project Cost       254.3    30.5   284.8   127.1    15.3   142.4         11
/a   Orange (mainly mandarin orange), pomelo, lichi and longan.
/b   Mainly star anise, cassia, eucalyptus and camphor.
Ic   Shrimp and pearl culture.
7d- Essentially pigs.
Te   Animal feed, fish and pearl proceassing.



- 16 -
4.12      The base cost estimates are in September 1983 prices to which is
added a physical contingency of 10%. Expected price increases amount to 19%
of the base cost plus physical contingencies and are based on anmual price es-
calations of 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985, and 6.0% annually in 1986-88 for both
foreign and local costs (expressed in US dollars). Taxes of about $3 millioni
are included in the cost estimates.
4.13      Financing.  The project is estimated to cost about $142 million of
which some $15 million (11%) would be the foreign exchange cost. Of the total
project cost, IDA would finance $50 million (35%), ABC $30 million (21%), the
Government $20 million (14%) through the operation of the internal settlement
rate system, and subborrowers $42 million (30%). The IDA funding would cover
the foreign exchange cost and some 28% of the local currency component. Some
local cost funding for the project is justified in view of the small foreign
exchange component and the need for IDA to make a meaningful contribution to
project costs.
Procurement
4.14      Individual households, collectives and state enterprises usually
purchase fertilizers, pesticides, animal feeds, hand tools and other smai
equipment items from the Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives- or
from local enterprises belonging to collectives and specialized households.
Seeds are purchased from the County Seed Company or local seed farms and
machinery and larger equipment items from the County Agricultural Machinery
Company or other local agricultural machinery companies. Except for the local
enterprises, these organizations are represented in each county and serve as
intermediaries for retailing of items distributed through national or provin-
cial wholesale systems. There is, however, a growing trend toward product
specialization in the distribution system and direct marketing by producing
enterprises. Consequently, specialized households and collective or state
enterprises which procure inputs in some quantity can, for example, purchase
feed from local mills or a Feed Supply Company, breeder chicks from various
poultry breeding farms, cattle from individual cattle raisers or an Animal
Products Company, fertilizer from local factories, etc.
4.15      Project investment items would be varied and generally small and
would be procured by subborrowers as and when required by them, and spread
over several years. This makes bulk procurement impractical. Procurement of
project investment items would therefore not be suitable for international
competitive bidding. Moreover, familiarity with local machinery and equip-
ment, their ready availability, including spare parts and repair services, and
the need for standardization, strongly support the general preference of the
users for locally manufactured over imported items. In view of the above,
investment items under the subloans would be procured locally and in accor-
dance with present procurement procedures indicated in para. 4.14 above which
4/   A government marketing organization responsible for the distribution and
sale of most agricultural inputs and consumer goods in rural areas. The
organizationris also engaged in the government procurement of cash crops.



- 17 -
are acceptable to IDA. For the technical assistance component, contracts for
purchase of micro computers, room air conditioning units for the micro-
computers, xerographic copiers, business calculators, e-nd audio-visual
equipment would be awarded after evaluation and comparison of price quotations
from at least three qualified suppliers. The agricultural inputs and other
investment items required by the project would be readily available.
Disbursements
4.16      Project subloans are expected to cover a three-year commitment
period commencing in the latter part of 1984. Estimated disbursements of the
IDA funds of US$50 million would be extended over a four-year period ending
December 31, 1988. The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in
Annex 6. In preparing the disbursement schedule, account was taken of the
establishment of a special account to accelerate project lending (para. 4.18),
and the measures already undertaken by ABC which would facilitate project
implementation. The measures include completion of the appraisal of a
significant number of subprojects.
4.17      Disbursements of the IDA credit proceeds would be as follows:
(a)  50 % of subloans made by ABC;
(b)  100% of expenditures for overseas fellowships and consultant
services; and
(c)  for technical assistance component equipment, 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory), and 75% of
invoiced cost for other items procured locally.
Withdrawal applications for consultant services and technical assistance
equipment will be fully documented.  Disbursements for subloans will be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure listing subloans made and
disbursements for overseas fellowships will be made based on statements of
expenditure certifying that the expenditures were incurred on the basis of a
training program agreed with IDA. Supporting documentation for statement of
expenditure disbursements would be retained by ABC and made available to IDA
staff for review during supervision missions.
4.18      Under the project, a special account would be set up for
disbursements of the IDA credit. The special account would facilitate
implementation of project lending.  It would be set up and maintained in US
dollars in the Bank of China in Beijing. The initial deposit of the US dollar
equivalent of SDR 5 million represents the highest estimated disbursements of
the IDA credit for any three months. Applications for replenishment would be
submitted monthly. Opening of the special account would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.



- 18 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
5.01      The project would be carried out by ABC under a Project Agreement
with IDA, with funds on-lent by the Government (para. 5.07). State Council
approval of the Project Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement would
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
5.02      A Project Coordinating Committee has recently been established at
the regional level in Guangxi to oversee the implementation of the project and
to ensure coordinated planning and execution of project operations between the
ABC and other concerned government departments and agencies, especially with
regard to ensuring the adequate and timely provision of local cost funding,
improved production irnputs and technical extension support, and training.
Members of the committee consists of the head of the Guangxi Economic
Commission as the Chairman, President of ABC Guangxi, head of the Guangxi
Planning Commission and chief of the Export-Import Commission as the Vice-
chairmen, directors of the Regional bureaus of agriculture, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, light industry, and commune and brigade enterprises, and
the Director of the Guangxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences. An assurance
that this committee would be maintained was obtained during negotiations.
5.03      In addition, a Project Unit (PU) would be established in each of
ABC's county offices (subbranches) participating in the project which would
supervise aad monitor project implementation. An assurance on this was
obtained during negotiations. The PU would appraise and supervise project
subloans, ensure the proper utilization of project funds and procurement of
project investment items, maintain separate accounts for the project and
record the progress of the project. It would also be responsible for moni-
toring and evaluating the economic benefits and impact of project lending.
5.04      The PU would rely on staff from the local government technical
bureaus (agriculture, livestock, fisheries, etc.) for guidance and assistance
on the technical aspects of project preparation, appraisal and supervision.
This would be an appropriate arrangement and has worked well during th pre-
paration and appraisal of the project. The available technical expertise
would be adequate to meet project needs.
5.05      Project investments would be evaluated in terms of their technical
feasibility and financial viability based on incremental returns. The
appraisals will be carried out using the procedures and criteria set out in
the project appraisal manual which is being prepared by ABC with the assi-
stance of IDA. A draft of this manual was sent to IDA for review in March
1984 and a final version approved by IDA should be ready for use by the middle
of 1984. The issuance to the Project Units of this appraisal manual and
instructions for its use, satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
5.06      For large investments the appraisal procedures would include field
investigations to assess the capability of the subborrowers and competence of



- 19 -
their technical stafff, suitability of the project or subproject sites in terms
of their adequacy and location, availability of raw material input, market
prospects and other related matters. The PU would also undertake regular
field visits to supervise the progress of project investments and with the
assistance of the local government technical bureaus provide technical support
to subborrowers. The technical support would include assistance to subbor-
rowers to (a) raise the efficiency of production through better techniques and
methods of production, and design, layout and utilization of facilities, and
(b) improve quality control of both the project input and output.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
5.07      Project funds of $50 million from IDA would be provided to the
Government at the prevailing standard terms and conditions. Under a Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement to be concluded as a conditiou of credit effectiveness,
the Government would make available these funds to ABC for onlending by its
offices in Guangxi to subborrowers.  Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the Subsidiary Loan would be repaid over 20 years, including six
years grace (para. 5.08), with foreign exchange risk tD be borne by the
Government, and at an interest rate of 2.3% p.a.
5.08      ABC would onlend project funds to subborrowers at its prevailing
interest rate of 5.04% (para. 2.11). Subborrowers would be required to con-
tribute a minimum of 30% of the total project costs. In addition, the repay-
ment periods of the subborrowers will be determined by ABC's cash flow esti-
mates of their subloans but not exceeding 20 years. Based on the cash flow
estimates of selected major subprojects and given that the project funds (IDA
and local counterpart funds) would be disbursed over four years (para. 7.04), the
cash flow estimated for the project as a whole indicates that ABC's repayment
period of the total project funds should be 20 years, including six years
grace. Assurances on the above subborrower contributions, determination of sub-
loan maturities and ABC's repayment period were obtained during negotiations.
5.09      Based on its administrative costs and total resources employed in
recent years, ABC would need a 2% interest margin to cover the costs of pro-
ject lending.  Accordingly, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government and ABC would ensure that the cost of project funds to ABC,
including ABC's counterpart contribution, and the project lending rate should
be such as to provide ABC with this minimum interest margin. ABC would be
assured of this interest margin based on the present cost to ABC of its total
funds, including the IDA credit, and the on-lending of project funds at the
prevailing interest rate of 5.04% p.a. In addition, an assurance was obtained
during negotiations that the Government and ABC would periodically exchange
views with IDA concerning AdC's lending rates in light of ABC's cost of funds
and profitability and taking into account inflation and other interest rates
in China.
5.10      The project would finance a large number of different types and size
of subprojects under the four project components: crops, aquactilture, live-
stock and agro-processing. Selected subprojects have been appraised by the
appraisal mission to provide some indication of the financial and economic
viability of the majcr types of subprojects.  However, the selected subpro-



- 20 -
jects cannot be regarded as representative of all subprojects within a similar
category since prevailing conditions and the size of subprojects within each
category vary significantly. ABC will therefore need to appraise all subpro-
jects not appraised by the appraisal mission and the appraisal will be carried
out using the procedures and criteria set out in the project appraisal manual
(para. 5.05). An assurance on thic; was obtained during negotiations.
5.11      In connection with the above:
(a) Subprojects which have already been jointly appraised by ABC and the
appraisal iuission and found viable should be financed by ABC without
any further review by IDA.
(b) Individual subloans in excess of $500,000 would require IDA's prior
approval. This is to assist ABC in ensuring that for the larger
subprojects, all the procedures and criteria set out in the project
appraisal manual have been followed and correctly applied. It is
estimated that about thirty subloans accounting for about one-third
of the total project funds would be above the free limit.
(c) Given ABC's inexperience in proper project appraisal at the outset
of project implementation, subloans for the first five subprojects
appraised by ABC would be submitted to IDA for approval.
(d) Subloans would only be provided for the establishment of orchards
and other tree crops where planting materials and soils (including
topography) are considered suitable by Guangxi's Academy of
Agricultural Sciences.
Assurances on (b), (c) and (d) above were obtained during negotiations.
Accounts, Audit, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.12      The Project Units (PU) in ABC's county offices in the project area
would maintain detailed accounts of the project subloans and expenditures
(para. 5.03). These accounts and other data relating to the implementation
and progress of the project would be collated by the ABC regional office. The
accounts, including the statements of expenditures, and the accounts of ABC
Guangxi's total operations would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. These are expected to be from the Bureau of Finance of
Guangxi. The audited accounts together with the annual accounts (balance
sheets and income statements) of ABC's total operations would be submitted by
ABC to IDA within six months of the close of each financial year. In addi-
tion, ABC would forward to IDA half-yearly reports covering the project's pro-
gress within two months following the end of each reporting period. Assur-
ances on the above were obtained during negotiations.
5.13      An assurance was obtained during negotiations that ABC would also
prepare a project completion report (PCR) on the project not later than six
months following the completion of credit disbursements. The PCR which would
be submitted to IDA should include an assessment of the operating results and
impact of the project, performance of the implementiuig agency (ABC Guangxi)



- 21 -
and the major reasons for its achievements and deficiencies with a view to
drawing lessons which may usefully be applied to the preparation and
implementation of similar type projects in the futture (paras. 2.10 and 5.03).
Environmental Impact
5.14      The prcject would be designed to minimize adverse environmental
impacts. The agro-processing plants would conform to appropriate Bank
Environmental Guidelines for the various processing operations. An assurance
on the above was obtained during negotiations. Where appropriate guidelines
do not exist, the best practical control schemes will be used.
VI.  MARKETS, PRICES AND YARM INCOMES
Market Prospects
6.01      Mcost of thc- project lending would be targeted to increase production
for the domestic market of products which have long been in short supply. As
indicated for some major p-oject outputs in Table 6.1 below, even where long-
term production growth rates have been high, as with red meat (primarily
pork), current per capita consumption levels are quite low and inicome elasti-
cities of demand continue to be high. Project outputs are typically specialty
products, with income elasticities at least equal to 1.0, so that their demand
will continue to expand as rapidly as family income levels.
6.02      While fruit and other tree crop products would generally find their
major markets in provinces to the nortZ' where climatic conditions do not per-
mit local production, some of th'e project output are intended to meet local
shortages. For example, the introduction of the household responsibility
system has led to a major increase in the demand for draft animals which the
project can only begin to satisfy. Local consumption of beef, poultry and
fisheries products has also been sevzrely constrained by supply limitations.
6.03      Other subprojects have been selected after appraising potential
expansion in export markets for specialty products. These include products
such as star anise and early-ripening mandarin oranges, which have ready
markets in Hong Kong, Macau and elsewhere. The export markets for meat and
fresh fish are more restricted, but due to buoyant domestic demand, only a
small fraction of the project output of these products is expected to be
exported.



- 22 -
Table 6.1: INDICATORS OF DOMESTIC MARKET POTENTIAL
Production        1981 per capita
growth rate        consumption             Income elasticity
1957-81        Urban       Rural        of demand (rural)
Product             (% year)        (kg)         (kg)                 (%)
Meat                  4.9            18.6        8.7                  0.8
Poultry               N.A             1.9        0.7                  2.2
Eggs                  N.A             5.2        1.3                  1.0
Fish/shellfish        1.6             7.3        1.3                  1.0
Prices
6.04      Producers would receive fixed prices for products procured by
government trade organizations and market nrices for products procured by
other buyers. For certain products, such as fish, fixed prices are low
relative to free-market prices and quota sales are imposed on all state or
collective enterprises to insure government procurement. On the other hand,
products to be exported would receive premium prices, but quantities procured
by the government would be limited by international market conditions. The
absorption capacity of local markets for specialty products or perishables is
quite limited, and producers of such products normally would find state prices
advantageous even though no sales quotas apply. Producers of breeding stock,
however, would sell in the free market.
6.05      In recent years the free market has received an increasing propor-
tion of products such as meat, fruit, fish and eggs. In 1981, of the total
marketing in urban areas, the free market sales represented 27%, 20%, 42% and
20% of the total sales volume of beef and mutton, eggs, poultry, and aquatic
products respectively; procurement by state organizations had fallen to 70%
and 55% of the total procurement of pigs and cattle respectively.
6.06      The average farm-gate or ex-factory prices used in the financial
analysis of the project are weighted averages of quota and free market prices
prevailing at appraisal (September 1983). The weights are projections of
future quota sales and free market sales. Home consumption of the project
products would be minimal and is ignored.
6.07      For the economic analysis of the project, all project inputs and
outputs were evaluated at mid-1983 border prices. Since Bank Group projec-
tions of future prices are available for only a limited number of the pro-
ject's inputs and none of its outputs, relative prices at full development
were assumed to remain unchanged from those prevailing at appraisal. The
farm-gate prices are based on statistics of local trading organizations or
Bank Group commodity price forecasts, adjusted for quality, international and
domestic transport, and processing costs. Prices used for the financial and
economic analysis are given in Annex 4. All other products and non-traded



- 23 -
inputs other than labor and manure are evaluated at financial prices for want
of comparable world price data from which to compute border prices.
6.08      The economic cost of labor is considered to be Y 0.50/man day. ThiB
relatively low economic value for labor in the project area reflects the exis-
ting large element of unemployed or underemployed labor. It is reported that
about 30% of the rural labor force in Guangxi could be withdrawn from agricul-
tural production with little or no impact on production. Job opportunities in
other sectors or regions are insignificant in number. Consequently the repor-
ted financial wage rates, which range from Y 1.6-5.0 per man day, are consi-
dered to substantially exceed the value of labor's marginal product, either
because they include welfare transfers or, in the case of individual household
activities, elements of rent on communal land or interest on own investment.
The assumed economic cost of Y 0.50 may be compared with the estimated cost at
economic prices of about Y 0.30-0.40 per day of additional consumption (Large-
ly food) associated with physical labor. However, economic returns to the
project were also tested for sensitivity to an economic wage of Y 1.00/man
day.
Farm Incomes and Employment
6.09      The project would lead to a aet job creation of about one full-time
job equivalent per US$1,600 invested. New jobs in state-owned enterprises,
primarily in processing and fisheries, would pay wages at the going rate of
Y 2-2.5 per day, or Y 600-750 per year. These would account for about 30% of
the total loan volume. The remaining loans would be to some 85,000 individual
farmers, mainly for tree crop production or animal raising, and would provide
a net annual return, after taxes and debt service, of about Y 900 per family,
including side income. In total, about 75,000 full-time equivalent jobs and
Y 89 million net income (present value) would be added by the project at full
development. About 50% of lending would be directed to relatively poor coun-
ties, with average per capita distributed collective incomes of under Y 100
compared to 1982 provincial average of Y 107.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION ANiD RISKS
Production Benefits
7.01      At full development, the value of the aggregate incremental output
of the project would be about $180 million per annum. The project would
increase the production of higher value foods which are in short supply and
for which demand is growing rapidly, and thereby improve the quality of food
consumption. Increased annual production would include about 430,000 tons of
fruits, including about 200,000 tons of citrus, and 11,000 tons of aquatic
products consisting mainly of fish (about 7,500 tons). In addition, lending
for the establishment or expansion of animal breeding and fish nurseries would
help satisfy the growing demand from individual households for improved stock,
while increasing the supply of red meat, poultry, and table eggs.



- 24 -
Other Benefits
7.02      The project would benefit directly some 90,000 families, or 380,000
individuals from increased production and incomes. The annual demand for
labor would increase by about 20 million man-days, equivalent to 75,000 full-
time jobs, thereby absorbing part of the surplus rural labor force
(para. 6.08). The project would also put to productive use land which at pre-
sent is mostly wasteland or low-productivity pasture. The ABC would benefit
from institutional strengthening through improvements in the efficiency of its
overall credit operations and its capability and capacity to undertake proper
appraisal and supervision of project investments.
Financial Analysis
7.03      The financial rates of return (FRR) of the project components based
on typical subproject investments in each component are given in Table 7.1
below. The FRR would average about 25% for the proposed total lending port-
folio but would vary considerably among subproject inves.ments. The highest
FRR would be for poultry breeding, but because of relatively low profit mar-
gins, returns to this subproject would also be sensitive to changes in revenue
or cost estimates.  In general, the FRRs of all the subprojects are satisfac-
tory but are weakest for subprojects (as with star anise and cattle) where
their domestic prices are low compared to international prices. The FRRs for
these subprojects are only moderately sensitive to changes in revenue
Table 7.1: FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
Component                      Base  Revenue  Revenue  Cost  Cost  Revenue -10%
case    -10%    -20%    +10%  +20%    cost +10%
Crops
Mandarin Orange               23      21       18      21    19          18
Star Anise                   17       16      14       16    15          15
Livestock
Poultry                       42      34       25      35    28          17
Draft/beef cattle            15       13       11      13    12          11
Fisheries
Fishponds                     23      20       16      20    17          17
and cost estimates. Even with a 10% decrease in revenues combined with an
equal percentage increase in costs, the FRR9 for all the subprojects would
remain well above ABC's rate of interest for project lending. A guideline in
ABC's project appraisal manual will provide that subprojects will not be
considered financially viable if they do not have at least a 10% FRR.



- 25 -
7.04      The cash flow estimates of the typical subprojects listed in
Table 7.1 indicate that they would require loan repayment periods ranging from
a three-year loan, including one year grace for poultry to a 17-year loan,
including 12 years grace for star anise. Most of the subprojects would
require loan repayment periods of 7-11 years, including 2-6 years grace.
7.05      A cash flow analysis for the project as a whole was performed,
taking the subprojects listed in Table 7.1 as typical of their categories, and
assuming onlending to subprojects at the going rate of 5.04%, with repayment
periods, including grace periods, based on their cash flow estimates. Given
the proposed mix of lending, the ABC would have a steady net inflow of funds
of about Y 15 million per annum beginning in 1987, and would have no diffi-
culty repaying principal and interest to the Government within 20 years,
including a six-year grace period.
Economic Analysis
7.06      All economic values were converted to local currency at the official
exchange rate at appraisal of Y 2 - US$ 1.00. Economic price conversions were
applied to major outputs, traded inputs, and labor (para. 6.06-6.07). Using
the foregoing assumptions and discounting costs and benefits over 30 years,
the aggregate economic rate of return (ERR) to the project would be about 27%.
At a discount rate of 12%, which is considered to approximate the opportunity
cost of capital in China, the net present value (NPV) of the project is about
Y 570 million ($285 million equivalent). rhe ERRs for typical subprojects,
shown in Table 7.2, would be highest for poultry breeding (40%) and lowest for
draft cattle breeding (22%). The ERRs generally exceed the FRRs due primarily
to the low economic cost of labor and fertilizer. The returns to cattle
raising subprojects, although Lower, are still satisfactory. These subprojects
are located in mountainous and impoverished areas where there is no alterna-
tive to development of animal raising as a source of employment.



- 26 -
Table 7.2:  ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Component               Base  Revenue  Revenue  Cost  Cost  Reventue -10%  Wage
case   -10%      -20%    410%  +20%    cost +10%   +100%
Crops
Mandarin Orange        25      23       20       23    21          21         22
Star Anise             29      28       26       28    26          26         26
Livestock
~Poultry               40      31       22       32    25          24         39
Draft/beef cattle      22      20       18       21    19          19         20
Fisheries
Fishponds              27      23       20       23    21          20         25
7.07      Sensitivity of the ERR was tested to influences which would cause
revenues to decrease and costs to increase by varying percentages, and also to
a doubling of the economic value of farm labor. No single variant proved cru-
cial to economic viability.  An economic wage of Y l/man-day would have little
effect on the ERR of the subprojects.
Risks
7.08      No major risks are anticipated.  As the sensitivity analysis
demonstrates all the typical subprojects are able to sustain significant
increases In costs and reductions in revenues and still give satisfactory
rates of return. The technological improvements envisaged for the subprojects
are already widely in use and would accordingly be readily available so that
the risks in this regard would likewise be minimal.
VIII. AGREEMEN¶TS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      At negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a) training of ABC staff would be carried out in accordance with the
program agreed to between IDA and ABC, and technical experts would
be employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of
consultants (para. 4.10);
(b) a Project Unit would be established in each of ABC's county offices
participating in the project which would supervise and monitor
project implementation (para. 5.03);



- 27 -
(c)  the Government would on-lend the proceeds of the IDA credit to ABC
for 20 years, including six years grace, at an interest rate of 2.3?.
p.a., and would bear the foreign exchange risk (para. 5.07);
(d)  project funds would be repaid by ABC over 20 years, including six
years grace (para. 5.08), and ABC would be given a minimum 2%
interest spread to cover the cost of project lending (para. 5.09);
(e)  the Governeent and ABC would exchange views periodically with IDA
concernling ABC's lending rates in light of ABC's cost of funds and
profitability and taking into account inflation and other interest
rates in China (para. 5.09);
(f)  subloans for the first five subprojects and subsequent individual
subloans in excess of $500,000 would require IDA's prior approval
(paras. 5.11b and 5.11c ); and
(g)  ABC would maintain separate accounts for the project.  The accounts,
including statements of expenditures, and the accounts of ABC
Guangxi's total operations would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts together with the
annual accounts (balance sheets and income stateaents) of ABC's
total operations would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of the financial year (para. 5.12).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  A special account would be set up to facilitate implementation of
projecL lending (para. 4.18).
(b)  State Council approval of the Project Agreement and the Development
Credit Agreement (para. 5.01).
(c)  The issuance to the Project Units of the project appraisal manual
and instructions for its use satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.05).
(d)  The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, acceptable to IDA,
between the Government and ABC incorporating the Government's
lending and repayment terms of the IDA credit to ABC (para. 5.07).
8.03      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 47.2 million (equivalent to US$50 million) on standard terms.
The borrower would be the People's Republic of China.



- 28 -
AMNEX 1
Table 1
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheet of the AL:ricqltural
Bank of China, 1982
(bMillion Y)
Dec 31                                                 Dec 31
1982                                                   1982
Deposits                                                         Loans
Deposits of rural credit                                        Loans to ruraL comercial
cooperatives                                30.29                enterprises /b                     40.04
Deposits of individuals                        5.38             Loans to cotnaunes, brigades
and teatms                         16 .54
Demand deposits of state farms                 5.05             loans to state-owned
agriculturaL enterprisees           2.49
Deposits of working capital by                                   Loans to rural credit
rural commercial enterprises                 4.84                cooperatives                        1.07
Deposits of government agencies /a             3.63              Loans to individuals                  0.91
Deposits of working capital of                                   Loans for crop advances               0.74
communes, brigades and teams                 2.71
State budget grants                            1.00
Subtotal, ABC deposits                  52.90                   Subtotal, ABC loans             61.79
Other items                                      1.05              Loans on behalf of other
organizations plus deposits
State capital grant                             22.00                vith pEC                           14.78 /c
Accumulated net gain, 1982                       1.15            Other items                             0.53
Total                                 77.10                      Total                        77.10
/a   At prefecture level oa  below.  These are categorized as "nonproductive" (i.e. se-rvice) agencies.  N'o
interest is paid on those deposits.
/b   Largely to units of the National Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives.
7W    The ABC acts as the Government's fiscal agent in passing these funds to commercial departments of the
Ministry of Food and Commerce for the purchase of grains and other agricultural products from producing
units.
Source:  Planning Department, ABC, Beijing.



-29-                                               ANNEX 1
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Income Statement of the Agricultural
Bank of China, 1982 /a
(million Y)
Income                              1982                 5xpenditure                         1982
Interest received on ABC loans                2,791      Interest paid on savings deposits                 893
Agency fees and interest earned                           Interest paid on loans from PBC
on deposits at bigher levels /b              1,892       and agency fees paid                          1,410
Other income                                      27      Compensation paid to RCC for losses               41
Compensation paid for negative Interest
rate spreads                                   126
Administration and operational costs
excluding salaries                             374
Salaries and bonuses                             315
Construction and maintenance of branch
offices                                        398
Total                                4,710               Total                                 3*557
Accumulated Met Gain                 1,153
La   ABC losses on loan write-off due to national disasters are met through state budgetary grants provided
to another account.
lb   Includes interest subsidies from the government.
Source: Planning Department, ABC, Beijing.



_ 30 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agriculture in Guangxi
General
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region is located in Southeast China,.
bordering Viet Nam and due west of Guangdong province. The region has an area
of 230,000 sq km and a population of 36.1 million (at the end of 1981) about
12 million of whom are from the Zhuang minority group. More than 90% of the
population is rural. Guangxi is one of the poorer areas of China: the per
capita gross output value of agriculture and industry was only 57% of the
national average in 1981 and in terms of distributed collective income there
were only seven poorer provinces. Some basic data on the climate, population,
land area and agriculture for Guangxi are given in Tables 1 and 2 below.
Climate, Topography and Soils
2.        Most of Guangxi is subtropical or tropical.  Annual rainfall exceeds
1,100 mm with as much as 2,800 mm per year along the coast and in mountain
forests. Over 65% of the annual rainfall occurs between the beginning of
April and the end of August. Average temperatures range from 130 C in January
to 290 C in July. Sunshine duration ranges from less than 2 hours per day in
January and February to about 7 hours per day in July. There are generally
about 2 or 3 days of frost per year and seldon more than 10.
3-        Guangxi has a varied terrain.  Of the total area, mountains account
for about 64% and hills and terraces 19%. Plains which account for about 14%
are generally small and scattered.  Nearly all of the region's low mountains,
hills and plains have yellow-red soils, slightly to moderately acid, and
suitable for growing a wide range of agricultural crops.
Agricultural Production and Labor Force
4.        Although gross agricultural output per capita in Guangxi is below
the national average, agri^ulture has performed well in recent years and there
has been a substantial diversification of production. The gross value of
agricultural output at constant prices increased significantly from Y 5,945
million in 1980 to Y 7,656 million in 1982 or by about 29%2 Of the cultivated
land of 2.63 million ha, 1.65 million ha are irrigated and the cropping inten-
sity is about 180%.  There are 12 million ha of forest land and 0.7 million ha
of fresh water area.
5.        Crop production accounts for about 62% of the gross value of agri-
cultural output. Grain production (mostly rice) has increased by more than
4% p.a. in the period since 1970 due almost entirely to yield improvements,
and oilseed production after declining between 1970 and 1980, has increased



ANNEX 2
-31-                           Page 2
significantly in the last two years. Guangxi is also an importanit producer of
sugarcane, jute, tobacco and fruits (mostly citrus), accounting for 18%, 8%,
3% and 4%, respectively of national production. Fruit production, which
includes oranges (mainly mandarins), bananas, pineapples and other fruits,
grew by 50% between 1980 and 1982.
6.        Other agricultural subsectors have also performed well in recent
years. Between 1980 and 1982 the number of cattle and buffalo increased by
11% and the number of pigs by 24%; fish production (marine and freshwater),
expanded by over 30%; and forestry products output increased by nearly 20%.
Southwestern Guangxi is an important producer of pine, fir, oak, maple,
camphor, cassia and other timber products.  There has also been an expansion
in sideline production, including the output of industries belonging to the
production brigades and teams, although such production still accounts for a
smaller share (12%) of gross agricultural output than the national average
(14%). Fertilizer use in Guangxi has increased rapidly in recent years but
use of agricultural machinery and equipment has grown quite slowly and the
number of large and medium-sized tractors in use has actually declined.
7.        Most of the rural labor force of 12.9 million belong to 268,300
production teams, 13,768 production brigades and 1,038 communes. In addition
there are 541 stax-e farms organized and run mainly by county level bureaus.
Within both collective and state farm agriculture major changes in
organization and management have taken place in recent years and the household
production responsibility system is now in operation in the majority of the
areas. There has also been an increase in the number of specialized
enterprises under various forms of joint state/collective ownership.
Infrastructure and Other Services
8.        Guangxi is served by a relatively well-developed system of physical
infrastructure. Railway lines in operation total 1,710 km and pass through
most of Guangxi's major prodtuction areas and a new line linking Nanning the
capital with Fancheng, a seaport, is under construction. Wuzhou and
Zhangjiang are other important seaports. The Xijiang river is passable
directly to Hong Kong. Ninety-nine percent of all communes are accessible to
motor traffic.



-32 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 3
Table 1: SOME BASIC DATA ON GUANGXI
1980         1981         1982
Population (year-end)
Total population (millions)                     35.4          36.1           n.a.
Rural population (% of total)                    n.a.         91.8           n,a,
Number of farm households (millions)             n.a.          6.1           n.a.
Land Area
Cultivated area ('000 ha)                    2,636.9       2,634.5       2,630.9
% irrigated                                     62.7          62.9          62.7
Cropping index                                   1.8           1.8           1.8
Gross value of Agricultural
output (constant 1980 prices)
Total (Y million)                            5,945.1       6,471.9       7,656.3
% Crops                                       61.3          63.2          61.5
% Forestry                                     6.7           6.9           6.1
% Livestock                                   20.5          17.0          17.8
% Fisheries                                    1.3           1.4           1.4
% Sideline activities                         10.2          11.5          13.2
Crop Production
Foodgrains: Area ('000 ha)                   3,957.2       3,933.0      3,9939.8
Yield (tons/ha)                      3.01          2.92          3.43
Production (000 tons)          11,904.4      11,494.5      13,531.5
Oilseads: Area ('000 ha)                       167.5         166.5         178.2
Yield (tons/ha)                        0.82          0.86          0.98
Production (000 tons)               137.3          142.4        174.3
Sugarcane: Area ('000 ha)                      111.8         127.0         152.7
Yield (tons/ha)                     36.95         41.53         47.34
Production (000 tons)            4,019.3       5,274.9       7,228.5
Fruits: Area:
Yield
Production ('000 tons)                 209.1         276.6         316.2
Livestock
Cattle:  Number on farms ('000)              4,154.9       4,283.1       4,599.6
Number sold ('000)                    49.9           64.0          70.8
Pigs:    Number on farm ('000)              10,340.9      11,252.9      12,841.5
Number sold ('000)                 5,646.9       5,147.0       6,102.4
Fisheries
Production:  Total ('000)                      111.3         117.5         148.2
% Marine                                      71.2          69.9          70.0
% Freshwater                                  28.8          30.1          30.0
Agricultural Inputs
Sales of Chemical
Fertilizer ('000 tons)                     1,829.5       2,152.0       2,473.9
Number of large/medium
agricultural tractors )'000)                  22.3          22.1          21.4



- 33 -                                                   ANNEX 2
Page 4
Table 2:  METEOROLOGICAI, DATA FOR GUANGXI
Average or
Item                   Years    Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May    Jun.   Jul.   Aug.   Sept.' Oct.   Nov.   Dec.                   total
TemperAture (CO)    1979-82        12.6   13.2   17.4   21.4   24.5   27.2   28.6   27,5   26.3   23.o   18.1   11.2                  21.2
Ratnfall (mm)         1979-82    40.9   74.7   90.2  213.7  241.2  209,5  195.7  222.9  118,5   63.4   66.5   22.4                 1,559.6
Hours of sunshine   1979-82    62.2   33.1   49,5   61.9  122.4  158.8  208.7  150.2  189,7  170.5  132.4  131.4    1,470.8



ANNEX 3
34                              Page 1
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ABC's Operations in Guangxi
Organization
1.        The ABC Branch Office of Guangxi Autonomous Region is located in
Nanning, the Region's capital. Under the branch office, there are a total of
1,093 offices comprising 12 offices at the district/municipality level, 82
county offices, 974 business offices located in the communes, and 25 business
offices stationed in the state farms. In addition, 1,728 RCCs and 3,087 RCC
credit stations render credit services at the coammune and brigade levels. The
organizational setup of the offices at the different levels is shown in
Table 1 below.
Staffing
2.        At present ABC Guangxi has a total staff of 11,390.  About 63% work
in the business offices and the remaining 37% in offices at the county level
and above. 11,359 persons are employed by the RCCs.
3.        Of the total ABC staff about 8% have college training, 77% high
school training, and 15% elementary school training. A substantial number of
the staff have long banking experience with some 60% having worked in a bank
for more than 20 years and another 20% for periods of between 10 to 20 years.
Most of the RCC staff are reportedly high school (mainly t-inior high school)
and elementary school graduates. The distribution of ABC staff at the branch
office and lower level offices and their educational qualifications are shown
in Table 2 below.
Training
4.        The training of the ABC staff in Guangxi is conducted by the Banking
School of Guangxi and through short-period training programs organized by
ABC. The Banking School of Guangxi is located in Nanning. Established in
1979 by the People's Bank of China (PBC), the Banking School provides training
for staff members of the PBC, ABC, and the Bank of China. Funded fully by the
PBC, the Banking School provides a two-year course of professional training in
two specialized fields, urban finance and rural finance. Participants in the
course are required to have high school diplomas, are under the age of 35, and
have passed an entrance examination held by the Banking School.



ANNEX 3
35                             Page 2
Table 1: ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE GUANGXI BRANCH
OF ABC AT DIFFERENT LEVELS /a
Guangxi. Branch    -  General Administration Bureau
Office (1)       -  Personnel Bureau
-  Supervision Buireau
-  Planning Bureau
-  Education Bureau (Training)
-  Collective Credit Bureau
-  Enterprise Credit Bureau
-  RCC Bureau
-  Accounting Bureau
-  Research Institute of Rural Finance
- Office of Banking Association
District/Munici-   -  General Administration
pality Offices         personnel and Education Division
(12)                -Supervision Division
- Credit Planning Division
- Collective Credit Division
RCC Division
- Accounting Division
County Offices         General Administration Office
(82)               -  Personnel Section
-  Credit Planning Section
-  Collective Credit Section
-  RCC Section
Accountirig :'ection
Business Offices  '-  Manager
at the Commune     -  Deputy manager
and State Farm      -  Accountant (s)
(999)              -  Cashier (teller) (s)
- Auditor (s)
.- Loan Officer (s)
RCCs                -  Manager
(1728)             -  Accountant (s)
Loan officer (s)
Credit Station      -  Credit agent
(3087)
/a   Numbers within brackets are the number of offices.



- 36 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 3
Table 2: EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS OF ABC STAFF
IN GTJA'N,G XI
No. of           No. of              Qualifications
offices           staff                of staff /a
No.         %
Branch Office                  1              150        A       67        44
B       73       49
C       10         7
District Office                8              258        A      220        25
B      577        66
Municipality                   4              622
Office                                                   C       83         9
County Office                 82            3,199j       A      584         6
Commune                                           X
Business Office              974            7,088        B    8,176        79
State Farm
Business Office               25               73!       C    1,600        15
A      871         8
Total                1,094           11,390       B    8,826         77
C    1,693        15
RCCs /b                    4,815           11,357
/a   A = College level training, B   high school level training and
C   elementary school level training.
lb   Including RCC branch offices and credit stations.
5.        Students selected to worl for ABC would enrol in the rural finance
course as their major field of study. The annual in-take in the rural finance
course which is limited to 150 is expected to increase to 200 in 1984. The
curriculum for the course i8 given in Table 3 below.
6.        After completing their rural finance course work, the students have
to spend 7 weeks in the field at ABC's commune business offices or RCCs to
gain experience in banking practices. Following their field work, each
student has to submit his field study report before he takes his final
examination. Diplomas are awarded to students who have successfully fulfilled
all the above requirements. In addition to the two-year professional
training, the Banking School also organizes in-service short-term training.
From July 1983, the Banking School will sponsor a new three-year training



- 37 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 4
program in finance. The training will be based on lectures transmitted
nation-wide to students via television from the TV University in Beijing.
Table: 3:  CURRICULUM FOR RURAL FINANCE AT THE BANKING SCHOOL
OF GUANGXI
Class
Group           Course                                     hours
General                                                      528            27
General Banking                     156
Mathematics                         108
English                             132
Physical Education                  132
Political Tlought                                           362            19
Political Economy                   172
Philosophy                           72
History of Chinese Communist
Party                              52
Political Thought Education          66
Basic Professional                                           335            17
Money and Banking                   101
Accounting                           80
Statistics                           72
Tabulation Techniques                82
Professional                                                 706            37
Rural Finance                        38
Agricultural Economy Management    57
Agricultural Banking Accounting   166
Agricultural Credit                 142
Agricultural Credit Supervision    26
Commune Enterprise Finance
and Accounting Analysis           54
Rural Commerce Finance and
Accounting Analysis                54
Rural Money Flow and Planning        78
Commerce and Brigade Finance
and Accounting Analysis           39
ABC Operations and Management        26
Special Lectures                     26
Total                                                    1,931           100



- 38 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 5
7.        As of April 1983, the Banking School has 750 students attending the
two-year training course and 100 students attending other training courses.
For the former type training, the number of students will be increased to
1,000 from 1984 permitting the admission of 500 new students each year. The
number of students on short-term training will vary according to need. For
the three-year course, the annual enrollment is expected to be 200 students.
Currently, the Banking School has 150 faculty members.
8.        ABC Guangxi at the provincial, district/municipality, and county
levels have their own pre-service and in-service training programs. At the
provincial nffice level, the trainees are managers of the county offices and
the division chiefs of the district/municipality offices. At the district/
municipality level, the trainees are section chiefs of the business offices.
At the county level, the trainees are accountants, cashiers (tellers), and
loan officers of the business offices and managers of the RCCs. Emphasis on
training is centered on accounting. During 1980-82, training was provided to
9,377 ABC staff members and 2,269 employees of the RCCs.
9.        The ABC provincial office in Nanning is short of training facilities
and has been conducting its staff training in rented premises. it plans to
construct a training center of Its own in 1985 to provide expanded and
improved training facilities. A suitable site for the training center has
recently been acquired by ABC.
Financial Operations and Pp-'    --e
10.       ABC Guangxi's total loans outstanding as of the end of 1982 amounted
to Y 1,681 million of which loans to rural ndustrial and commercial enter-
prises accounted for 53%, loans to communes, brigades and teams 35%, loans to
RCCs 7%, loans to state-owned agricultural enterprises 3% and loans for crop
advances 2%. About 80% of the loans are short-term (less than one year) and
the remalning 20% longer-term loans of one to five years. Most of the short-
term loans are for working capital and financing of agricultural production
inputs. The longer-term loans are mainly for procuring agricultural machinery
and equipment.
11.       Sources of financing these loans comprised mainly deposits and
equity funds provided by ABC headquarters in Beijing. As of the end of 1982,
deposits (Y 892 million) and equity funds (Y 636 million) together amounted to
91% of the loans outstanding. Major deposits were those of local government
agencies (Y 335 million), RCCs (Y 309 million) and individuals (Y 170
million).
12.       ABC Guangxi reported a profit of Y 37 million for 1982.  Its balance
sheet and income statement for 1982 are shown in Tables 4 and 5 below.



- 39 -                      ANEX 3
Page 6
Table 4:  BALANCE SHEET OF ABC GUANGXI AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1982
(million Y)
Deposits                             Loans
Deposits of RCCs         309.11      Loans to rural industrial
& commercial enterprises /e      889.92
Deposits of
individuals            169.81      Loans to communes, brigades
and teams                        580.24
Deposits of                          Loans to State-owned agri-
collectives /a          78.23        cultural enterprises               57.10
others /b                335.28      Loans for crop advarces              40.51
Subtotal           892.43       Loans to RCCs                       120.60
Various other                              Subtotal ABC loans          1,681.37
obligations              1.05
Others                              28.36
Funds from ABC
Beijing /c          636.30
Funds from local
governments for
onlending by ABC        46.08
Other items /d            96.91
Accumulated net gain      36.96
Total             1,709.73           Total                        1,709.73
/a   Deposits of working capital of communes, brigades and teams.
lb   Deposits of government agencies.
/c   Allocated by ABC Beijing from equity.
/d   Not clear what are the other items.
/e   Largely to units of the National Federation of Supply and M4arketlng
Cooperatives
Sources:  Planning Bureau, ABC Guangxi Branch.



- 40 -                          AMEX 3
Page 7
Table 5: INCOME STATEMENT OF ABC GUANGXI, 1982
(million Y)
Income                                 Expenditure
Interest received on ABC                 Interest paid on savings
loans                       73.03        deposits                       15.05
Agency fees and interest                 Interest paid on loans
earned on deposits at                    from PBC and agency fees
higher levels /a            43.66        paid                           39.02
Other income including                   Compensation paid to
state grants to compen-                  RCCs for losses and
sate for negative                        negative interest
interest rate spread         8.49        rate spreads                     1.51
Financial expenses excluding
salaries and supplies          21.57
Salaries and bonuses             6.70
other operational expenses        4.36
Construction and main-
tenance of branch offices        -
Miscellaneous                     0.01
Total                    125.18          Total                        88.23
Accumulated net gain /b          36.95
/a   Includes fees on PBC funds onlent to commercial departments for the
purchase of farm produce.
/b   ABC losses on Loan write-off due to natural disasters are met through
state budgetary grants provided to another account.
Sources:  Planning Bureau, ABC Guangxi Branch.



-ANNEX 4
- 41 -                                            Table I
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Prices for Traded Goods
(US$/ton or Y/ton 1983 prtces)
Trans-
Inter-                 Shanghai Shanghai           port &    Rcono-
h..     national     Ocean       Zhan-    Zhain-   Port      trade      mic     Pinancial
trade     price      freight       jiang    Jiang  charges  margin    price   price
status   (US$) /a   (US$) lb    (1US$) /c   (Y)       (Y)    (Y) /d       (Y)     (Y) /e
Urea /f                   H         147         42          189      378       25       28         431        500
DAP                       H M      186          42          228      456       25       32         513        700
Potassium chloride /h    H          82          42          IZ4      Z48       25       22         295        408
Maize /i                  H        130          42          172      344       25       26         395        220
Soybean meal/cake /L      M        230          20          250      500      25        34         559        200
Beef /k                   X          -           _        1,760    3,520     -25      -160      3,335       1,900
Poultry /1                X          -           -            -    2,221      -25      -99       2,097      2,200
Pork /1                   X          -           -            -    4,050      -25     -186       3,839      2,714
Mandarin orange /m        X          -           -          210      420      -25      -13         382        510
Star anise In             X          -           -        1,650    3,300      25      -150      3,125       2,400
Egg /1.                   X          -           -            -    2,296      -25     -102       2.169      2,140
la  World Bank projections for 1983 in 1983 constant prices (EPD, "Quarterly Review of Covmodity Markets and
Half-Yearly Revision of Commodity Price Forecasts, "Internal Memorandtm, July 7, 1983, p. 17).
/b  Estimated freight rate for wheat, US Gulf-Japan.  For soybean meal which Is priced CIF Europe, the rate is
an estimate of the difference between freight rates from US Gulf-China and US Gulf-Europe.
/c  For export products, prices are FOB China at the time of appraisal as reported by the exporting agencies.
/d  Assuminrg 200 Ion rail freight at Y5.1 total and 25 km truck at YO.20/mt/km and conversion factors of 0.97
for rail and 0.69 for road transport; a 5% distribution margin.
/e  Median farm gate prices in project areas.
if  Bagged, FOB Europe, 46% N.  The econonic price of pure N would be YO.941kg.
/g  Diammonium phosphate, FOB US Gulf, 18%  N and 46X P 05- The financial price is that of equivalent auounts
of nutrient in the form of locally produced ures an: superphosphate.  The economic price of P205 would be
Y0.75/kg.
/h  FOB Vancouver, 60Z K20. The economic price of X20 would be Y0.49/kg.
Ii  US No.2, yellow, FOB Gulf ports.
tj US soybean meal, 44% extraction, CIF Rotteraoi.  The financial price is for soybean cake of equivalent
nutrient quantity.
/k  Two-year old yellow cattle, FOB ChIna, exported to Hong Kong (live weight).
11  Baased on amount and value of China's 1982 exports, from PRC, Customs Statietice 1982, adjusted upwards by
3% to 1983 prices (based on the rate of increase of the MUV index in 1982-83).
Im  Fresh, FOB CHlina, exported to Hong Kong.
In  FOB Pancheng, Guanrgxi, exported to Hong Kong.



- 42 -                             ANNEX 4
Table 2
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Conversion Factors for Inputs
Conversion factor
Electricity /a                                 3.00
Diesel fuel Ta                                 1.34
Rail transport /a                              0.97
Road transport T-i                             0.69
Organic manure Tb-                             0.50
Mixed concentrate feed /c                      2.27
Construction /d                                1.00
/a   Based on an update of estimated conversion rates in S. Ichishima and
A. Wood, Economic Analysis of Aluminum Killing in Shanghai (Hay 1982).
The update used an exchange rate of Y2.0/US$1, 1983 Local or national
financial prices, and international price projections for 1983 (in 1983
constant values) from EPD, Quarterly Review of Commodity Markets and
Half-Yearly Revisions of Conmodity Price Forecasts, December 1982,
pp. 18-23.
/b   The conversion rate assumes that the market value is presently determined
by a highly rationed supply of chemical phosphorus and potassitim, and
would decline sharply if imports of chemical products were freely
available.
ic   Compute from economic and financial prices of maize and soybean meal/cake
in Table 1, assume a feed mixture containing equal parts of each.
Id   local conversion factor, assuming farm labor shadow priced at
Y0.50/man-day and conversion rates for steel, timber and cement of 1.13,
2.15 and 1.16 respectively (see note a).



- 43 -                              ANMEX 5
Table la
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Mandarin oranges (Guangxi)
Unit Cost for Investment
()-
Irrigation        Pesticide
Unit         ponds             tank         Storage shed
Unit       price    Amt.   Value    Amt,   Value    Amt.    Value
(  200 cu m)    - (2 cu m)-    -(60 sq m) -
Labor        workday      2.50    500    1,250       12       29      7.2    18.00
Cement       ton         84.00   13.5    1,134        0      26        -        -
Timber       cu in      108.00       -         -      -        -      4.8   518.40
Sand         cu m         5.00      80      400       2       9        -        -
Stone        cu m         5.00    178       890       -        3       -        -
Tiles        each         0.17       -         -      -        -   1,080    183.60
Other                                         76              19
Total                                3,750              86             720.00



- 44 -                              ANNE 5
Table lb
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Mandarin Oranges (Guangxi)
Investment in Fixed CapitaL
Unit     Total          'Year 1
Number      cost     value    Amount       Value
Capital ConBtruction
Storage po-d (200 cu m)             1       3,750      3,750         1      3,750
Pesticide tank (2 cu m)            10          86        864        10         864
Pump house                          1       1,600      1,600         1       1,600
Distribution channels             702           1        702       702         702
Storage shed (sq m)                 4         720      2,880         4      2,880
Contingencies @ 10%                                      980                   980
Subtotal                                           10.776               10,776
Machinery and Equipment
Sprinkler (no.)           =                 1,620      1,620         1       1,620
Power sprayer (no.)                  1      1,100      1,100         1       1,100
Hand sprayer (no.)                 10          27        270        10         270
Diesel engine (no.)                 1       2,000      2,000         1       2,000
Pump (no.)                           1        380        380         1         380
Pipe 100 mm (m)                   150          25      3,750       150       3,750
Pipe 150 mm (mn)                   20          30        600        20         600
Valves 100 mm (each)                2          90        180         2         180
Wooden cart (no.)                  10         130      1,300        10       1,300
Installation/transport @ 10%                             853                   853
Subtotal                                           12,053               12,053
Total Investment                                  22,829                22,829



- 45 -                                                 ANNEX 5
Table le
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Mandarin Oranges (Guangxi)
Unit Costs for Mandarin Orange Production
(Y.ha)
Establishment   Maintenance                        Production
Unit       Year I          Years 2-3       Years 4-7       Year 8-16      Years 17-20
Unit    price   Amt.    Value   Amt.   Value   Ant.   Value   Amlt.   Value   Amt.   Value
Labor (farm)           workday    2.20       645   1,419   390        858   546    1,201   810    1,782   735    1,617
Labor (construction)  workday    2.50        300      750      -        -      -         -     -         -     -         -
Seedlings              number      0.50      900      450     -         -      -        -      -         -     -         -
Fertilizer
N                    kg          1.00      160      160   160       160   244       244   348        348   338       338
p                    kg          1.13       51       58    51        58   107       121   149        169   149       169
K                    kg          0.71       43       31    43        31   128        91   150        106   150       106
Lime                 kg          0.07      600       40   600        40   450        30   450         30   450        30
Microelements        Y            -          -        -     -         -      -        35     -        40     -        40
pesticide              V            -          -       64     -        64      -       345     -       360     -       360
Tools & equipment      Y            -          -       80     -        80               99     -       107     -       107
Electricity & water   Y              -         -       36     -        36      -        36     -        36     -        36
Management expense    Y             -          -      375     -       375      -       375     -       375     -       375
Total                                         3,462            1,701           2,577           3,354           3,178



ANNRX 5
- 46 -                                                      Table Id
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Mandarin Oranges (Guangxi)
Financial Returns to Mandari-, oranges
(y 000)
Yeart      1       2       3      4       5      6      7     8       9       10      11      12   13-16  17-20
Area (ha)
Planting                    6.7     -       -       -      -      -
Maintenance                 -      6.7    6.7       -      -      -     -
Early harvest                -      -       -      6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7        6
Mature harvest              -       -       -       -      -     -      -      6.7    6.7    6.7    6.7    6.7    6.7          -
Late harvest                 -      -       -       -      -      -     -       -       -       -       -       -       -     6.7
Subtotal harvested       -       -       -      6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7    6.7    6.7    6.7    6.7    6e7    6.7    6.7
Yield (tiha)                   -       -       -     4.5   5.6   7.0  11.B   17.4   21.4   22.5   22.5   22.5   22.5   22.5
Prod_.ction (t)                -       -       -    30.0  37.5  46.9  78.8  116.3  142.5  150.0  150.0  150.0  150.r  150.0
Sales (Y'000) /a               -              -    16.5  20.6  25.8  43.3   64.0   78.4   82.5   82.5   82.5   82.5   82.5
Costs (Y'000)
Fixed capital             22.8      -               -      -      -     -       -       -       -       -      7.0     -       -
Land development /b       23.1   11.3   11.3        -      -      -     -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -
Operating cost /b            -      -       -    17.2  17.2  17.2  17.2   22.4   22.4   22.4   22.4   22.4   22.4   21.2
Working capital             -       -       -      9.4    -       -     -       -       -       -       -       -      -       -
Taxes                        -      -       -      0.9   1.2   1.4   2.4    3.6    4.4    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6
Subtotal               45.9   11.3   11.3   27.5  18.3  18.6  19.6   25.9   26.7   27.0   27.0   34.0   27.0   25.8
Net Revenue WP        -45.9  -11.3  -11.3  -11.0   2.3   7.2  23.7   38.0   51.6   55.5   55.5   48.5   55.5   56.7
Net Revenue WOP /c       -       -       -       - _    -     _      _          _    _               -      Z _             a
incremental Net Value    -45.9  -11.3  -11.3  -11.0   2.3   7.2  23.7   38.0   51.6   55.5   55.5   48.5   55.5   56.7
FRR = 23%      NPV (12%) - 102.2
ERR - 25%
/a At a price of Y 550/ton.
/b At costs of Y 3,462/ha for establishment (Year 1), Y 1,701/ha for maintenance (Years 2-3); Y 2,577/ha operating
cost during early harvesting years (Years 4-7), Y 3,354/ha at full maturity (Years 8-16), and Y 3,178/ha In the
last years (Years 17-20).
|c As land to be planted is presently wasteland, there would be no revenues without project.



- 47 -                                                     ANwN:X 9
rnfA    leO
CUITNA
RUIIP.AI, CtllT PRO.IP:CT
Prnoect r1 Onfcing
(Y'%00) /a
Yenr         l         2         3          4         S         6          7         8          9         10        II        12
Cl  Inf,loww--i-t-   Pro- te
(roRmq valueonF
pro)dtIction                                                 17.8      22.7       79.?      49.R       74.       94.1     100.7    10n2.       114.R
CII  tn.UtFlnw wlth Pr.uj_ct
lnvastment & nevelopment
expLndirisres                 4hR6.     II.R       l%,
Opera ltinp expLndftoirees                                      1.6       18.h9     19,4       19 ,      26.2      26,9       27.1      27.8       28.5
iuicrementt1l working
cpipttnl                                                     1.2
Ta xcs                                                           l.        1.8        1.6       2.8       4.2        5.3       5.6        5.7       5.8
Not vash flow before
ft -- -   -- -- -- -- -- -
Witih project                  -46.8     -I .8    -12.0    -12.A           2.5       8.2       27.2      44.5       61.9      67.8      68.8       70.5
Wtthouit project
lnerementAl                    -46.8     -11.8      -12.n    -17.0         2.5       8.2       27.2      44.5      61.9       67.R      68.8      70.S
nrante
otwn funds                      14.0        3.5       3.6        3.1
Lon? term loan
nishtirsement                 32.8       8.1        8.4       7.1
Rep.ayment                                                                                   1S.3      15.3      15.3       15.3      15.3
Sho,rc term loan
lisbursemuent                                                 1.R
Repayment                                                                1.9
Net cash flow after
f1nanc1ng
With project                        0         n         0          0       0.6       8.2       11.9      29.2       46.6      52.5      53.5       70.5
Incremental                        0          0         0          o       0.6       8.2       11.9      29.2      46.6       52.5     5s.5        70.5
/a  All cash flows In yusan at ctirrent prices assuming a 2X rate of dotmestic Inflation.



ANNEX 5
- 48 -                                               Table 2a
CHINA
RURA1L CREDIT PROJECT
Star Anise
Unit Costs for Anise Production
(Y)
Establishment  Maintenanee           Production period            Intercrop
Unit        Year 1        Years 2-10    Years 13-15    Years 16-30          cassava
Unit      price   Ant.   Value   Amt.   Value   Amt.   Value   Amt.   Value   Amt.   Value
---- (per ha) ---------   ----- (- (per ton) --------   - (per ha) -
Labor                 workday   2.60    219        569     31.      80    197      513    127       331    131      342
Seedlings
Anise               number    0.19    630        120      -        -       -       -       -        -      -        -
Cassava       '      000       2.50       -       -       -        -       -               -               6       15
Fertilizer
N                   kg         1.09      58       63     58       63               -                -    207      225
p2,05               kg         1.03      46      47       -        -       -       -       -        -     44       45
Pesticide             Y           -         -       15      -       15       -       -       -        _      _        _
Tools & equipment    Y            -         -       14      -       14       -       -       -        -      -        -
Other materials /b   Y            -         -       18      -       18       -      20       -       20               -
Total                                        845              189             533             351             627
/a Of dried product.
7b; Primarily costs of materials and implements used in processing.



ANNEX 5
- 49 -                                                       Table 2b
CHINA
RURAL CREDTT PROJECT
Star Anise
Financial Re?turns to Anise Production
(yr)ro)
Year:    1     2      3     4       5      6-10    11   12   13    14        15     16      17      18   19-30
With Project
Crop areas (ha)
?lanting                     460   447   413        -       -       -     -    -    -        -       -      -       -       -      -
MaLntenance                    -   460   907  1,320  1.320  1,320   860  413    -            -       -      -       -       -      -
Early harvest                  -      -      -      -       -       -     -    -  460    907  1,320    860    413           -      -
Mature harvest                 -      -      -      -       -       -           -    -       -       -    460    907  1,320  1,320
Intercrop                     92   181   172       83       -       -     -    -    -        -       -      -       -       -      -
Yields
Early anise (kg/ha)            -      -      -      -       -          -        -  660    660    660    660    660          -      -
Mature anise (kg/ha)           -      -                 _-                                                 35  1,035  1,035  1 ,035
Cassava Lntercrop (t/ha)       4      4      4      4       -       -     -    -    -        -       -      -       _       _      _
Sales (Y'000) /a
Anise                          -      -      -      -       -                      729  1,436  2,091  2,505  2,907  3,279  3,279
Casaava                       87   172   163       79       -       -     -          -       -       -      -       -       -      -
Subtotal                    87   172   163       79       -      -      -    -  729  1.436  2,-91  2.505  2.907  3,279  3.279
Costs  Y '000)
Land development /b          389   465   521    250    250    250   163   78    -            -       -      -       -       -       -
Operating cost
Anise /b                     -      -     -       -       -      -      -    -  162    319    464    469    474    479    479
Cassava intercrop /c        58   114   108       52       -      -      -    -    -        -      -       -       -      -       -
Subtotal                   447   578   629    302    250    250   163   78  162    319    464    469    474    479    479
Working capital /d            32    31    -3    -31    -28          -     -    -   89       86     80       3       3       3      -
Taxes                          -      -      -      -       -       -     -    -   44       86    125    150    174    197    197
Total Costs                478   609   626    271    221    250   163   78  294    491    669    622    651    678    676
Net Revenue WP            -391  -437  -462   -192   -221   -250  -163  -78  434    945  1,421  1,883  2.255  2,601  2.603
Net Revenue WOP /e                  -     -       -                     - -        - -    -  -    -       -       -      -       -
Incremental Net Value   -391  -437  -462   -192   -221   -250  -163  -i8  434    945  1,421  1,883  2,255  2,601  2.603
FRR - 17%      ERR - 29%      NPV (12%) - 1,771
/a  At prices of Y 2.4/kg of star anise and Y 240/ton of cassava.
/b  At costs of Y 846/ha for establishtent (Year 0), Y 189/ha for maintenance (Years 1-9); operating costs of Y 533/ton during
early harvest pertod (Years 12-14), and Y 351/ton during maturity.
/c  At cost of Y 627/ha.
/d  At 551 of incremental operating costa; working capital for intercrop would be released when intercropping ceases.
Ie  As land to be planted is presently mountainous wasteland, there would be no revenues without project.



CHlNA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Star Anose
Project Financing
( Y'000) /a
year        1        2         3         4         5        6         7         b         9         10       1!        12        13        14       15        16        17       IS        19        20
Cash Inflow vith Prolect
Gross value of
pro4ouctloa                 Y8.7    178.9    172.8       35.3                                                                                   94.4  1,8q5.S  2,822.9  3,431.9  4,069.8  4,689.0  6,787.3 4,885.7
Cash Outflow with Prolect
Investment & 0evelopxent
eaxpedttore,               396.Y    483.6    552.3    270.0    275.0    282.5    287.5    292.5    300.0    305.0    202.1             99.1
Operating expenditures        5Q.2    118.6    114.5       56.2                                                                                   209.0    421.1    626.4    642.5    663.6    685.0    699.3   713.7
Incremental working
capital                     32.6      32.2     -3.2    -33.5    -30.8                                                                           114.8    113.5    MM8.0        4.1       4.2       4.3
,axes                                                                                                                                              56.8    113.5    16R.3   2O.5    243.6    271.7    287.6   293.5
Net cash flo, befor-
f isancing
With project                -399.9   -455.5   -490,   -207.4   -244.2   -282.5   -287.5   -292.5   -300.0   -305.n   -2n2.1    -99.1    559.R  1,247.4  1,919.7  2,579.8  3,158.4  3,718.0  3,800.4 3,B78.5
Vithost project
Incremental                 -399.9   -455.5   -490.8   -207.4   -244.2   -282.5   -287.5   -292.5   -300.0   -3n5.n   -202.1    -99.1    557.8  1,247.4  1,919.7  2,579.8  3,158.4  3,718.0  3,800.4 3,876.5
Financing
Crants
Own foods                    277.8    338.5    3%6.6   1l9.t    182.M    197.7    2131.2    204.7    210.0    219.5    141.5             19. A
Loag termr lonn
Dlsbursenent               119.0    145.1    165.7       61.0      82.5      84.8      86.3     87.8      90.0      91.5      60.6     29.7
Repayment                                                                                                                                       352.9    352.9    352.9    352.9    352.9
Short tern loan
Otsburseaent                 3.1
Repapye.t                              3.3
Mlet cash flow after
With project                     0      24.4      61.S     62.6      30.8         0         0         0        0         0         0         0    206.9    894.5  1,566.8  2,226.9  2.n85.s  3.718.n  3,800.4 3,878 5
Incremental                      0      24.8      61.5     62.6      50.8         0         0         0        0         0         0        0    :16,9    894.5  1,566.6  2,226.4  Z,R05.5  3,718.3  3,800.4 3,R7R.5                 _ 7
la All cash flows tin yuan at current prices assuding a 22 rate of domestic inflation.



ANNEX 5
- 51 -                                  Table 3a
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Freshwater Fisheries (Guangxi)
Unit Cost for Investment
(Y)
Stone
Unit    Earth dikes    Rip-rap    Inlet/drain        channels
Unit     price   Amt.  Value  Amt. Value  Amt.  Value  Ant.    Value
-- (per cu m) -----                 (per unit) -------
Labor I         workday       1.30  1.00   1.30   -       -    1.00   3.00    -         -
Labor II        workday       3.00   -      -    1.00   3.00   -        -      2.00    6.00
Steel             ton   2,000.00   -        -      -      -      -      -       -       -
Cement            ton       33.00   -       -      -      -    0.05   4.15    -         -
Sand              cu m      16.80   -       -      -      -    0.30   5.04    -         -
Stone             cu m       6.04   -       -      -      -    1.00   6.04    -         -
Lime              ton       41.25   -       -      -      -    0.04   1.65    -         -
Standard pipe      m         10.00   -      -      -      -      -      -      2.00   20.00
Drain pipe         m         10.00   -      -      -      -      -      -    15.50  155.00
Slide gate        each      20.00   -       -      -      -      -      -      1.00   20.00
Swivel gate       each      65.00   -       -      -      -      -      -      1.00   65.00
Others             -           -     -      -      -     0.96   -      0.12    -        -
Total                                 1.30         10.00         20.00          266.00



- 52 -                              ANNEX 5
Table 3b
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Freshwater Fisheries (Guangxi)
Investment in Fixed Capital
(V 000)
Total
Unit  Number  Unit cost   value    Year 1  Year 2
Capital Construction
Earth dikes                 cu m 128,855         1.30    167.51   96.28   71.23
Pond excavation             cu m   4,970         1.30      6.46    6.08    0.38
Rip raps                    cu m   1,792        10.00     17.92   10.30    7.62
Stone channels              cu m   1,340       20.00      26.80   13.06   13.74
Inlets and drains           each       37     266.00       9.84    2.66    7.18
Pipes (30 cm)                 m     1,796       20.00     35.92   23.52   12.40
Pipes (20 cm)                 m       590       10.00      5.90      -       5.90
Pumping station             sq m       20      130.00      2.60    2.60      -
Storage tank                cu m       16       20.00      0.32    0.32      -
Feed storage                sq m      400     130.00      52.00   52.00      -
Contingencies e 10%           -         -           -     32.53   20.68   11.85
Subtotal                                              357.80  227.50  130.30
Machinery and Equipment
Trucks                       no.        1      30,000     30.00   30.00      -
Nets                          Y         -           -     10.00   10.00       -
Equipment                     Y         -           -      10.60   10.60      -
Water pumps, etc.             Y         2      15,000     30.00   30.00       -
Subtotal                                               80.60   80.60      -
Total                                                 438.40  308.10  130.30
I



ANNEX 5
- 53 -                                 Table 3c
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Freshwater Fisheries (Guangxi)
Unit Costs for Freshwater Fisheries
(Y/ha)
Unit       Year 1         Year 2      Year 3 & more
Unit      price  Amt.   Value  Amt.   Value   Aint.   Value
With Project
Production Ponds
Wages
Laborers            day           1.80    246    443    252    454        761  1,370
Technicians         day           1.94      88    170      90    174      109    210
Fingerlings            each          -    3,750       -  9,000        -  15,000       -
Manure
Green                ton           -        68      -      68       -      68       -
Animal              ton         20.D0       19    375      19    375       19    375
Lime                   kg           0.06       -       -      -       -      900     54
Electricity           -              -         -     15       -      15        -    150
Tools and equipment  -               -         -     45       -      45        -     60
Transportation         -             -         -     75       -      75        -    135
Management overhead  -               -         -      i5      -      75        -     75
Maintenance            -             -         -     75       -      75        -    150
Total                                           1,273           1,288           2,579
Nursery Ponds
Frys                   no. '000    0.80    750    600    750    600          750    600
Manure                 ton         20.00      19    375      19    375        19    375
Feeds                  ton        166.60       3    562       3    562         3    562
Lime                   kg           0.06  1,800    108  1,800    108   1,8D0    108
Total                                           1,645                           1,645
Without Project
Production Ponds
Wages
Laborers            day           1.80    246    443    246    443        246    443
Technicians         day           1.94     88    170       88    170       88    170
Fingerlings            each          -    3,750       -  3,750        -   3,750       -
Manure                 ton         20.00       1     25       1      25        1     25
Electricity            -             -         -      15      -      L5        -     15
Tools and equipment  -               -         -     45       -      45        -     45
Transportation         -             -         _      75      -      75        -     75
Management overhead  -               -         -     75       -      75        -     75
Maintenance            -             -         -      75      -      75        -     75
Total                                           1,273          1,273            1_,273
Nursery Ponds
Frys                   no. '000    0.80    750    600    750    600         750    600
Manure                 ton         20.00      19    375      19    375        19    375
Feeds                  ton        166.60       3    562       3    562         3    562
Lime                   kg           0.06  1,800    108  1,800    108   1,800    108
Total                                           1,645          1,645            1.645



- 54-                                                          ANNEX 5
Table 3d
CHINA
RUi-AI. CREDIT PROJECT
Freshwater Ftsberies (Guiangxi)
Financial Returns to Freshwarer Fizheries
(Y'000)
Year:     1      2      3    4-5      6   7-10    11   12-15   16   17-20    21   22-25    26   27-30
With Project
ProductIon ponds
Ares (ha)                              17    17    28    28        28    28    28        28     2B      28    28       28    28       28
Yield  (e/ha)                        (3.98  1.00  4.50  4.50  4.50  4.50  4.50   4.50  4.50    4.,0  4.50   4.50  4.50   4.50
Production (t)                         17    50   124   124   124    124   124         124   124      124    124    124    124       124
Sales (Y'000) la                       29    87   216   216   216   216   216    216   216    216   216    216   216    216
Nursery Ponds
Area (ha)                               3      3      9      9      9      9      9       9      9       9      9       9      9       9
Yield ('000/ha)                        90    90      90    90      90    90    90       90    90       90      90      90    90       90
Total production ( '000)              294   294   834   834   834   834   834           834   834    834   834    834   834    834
Comaercial sales ('000)            230   144   420   420   420   420   420    420   420    420   420    420   420    420
Sales (Y'000) la                       35    22      63    63    63    63    63         63     63      63    63       63    63        63
Costs (Y'000)
Fixed capital /b                      308   130       -      -    30       -    71        -    30        -    56        -    30        -
Operating Cost I/c
Production pond                      22    21      71    71      71    71    71       71    71       71    71       71    71       71
Nursery ponids                        5      5    15    15    15    15    15          1       I 15   15         IS      15     IS  15
Subtotal                         27    27      86    86    86    86    86          86    86       86     86      86    86       86
Working capital                         -      -    17       -      -      -      -       -      -       -      -       -     -        -
Tax                                     3      5    14    14       14    14    14        14    14       14    14       14    14       14
Total Costs                     338   163   118    100   130    100    171        100   130      100   156    100    130    100
Net Revenue WP                 -275   -54   161    179   149    179   108         179   149      179   123      179   149    174
Without Project
Production Ponds
Area (ha)                              17    17      17    17    17    17    17          17    17       17    17       17    17       17
Yield  (t/ha)                        0.98   1.88   1.88  1.88  1.88  1.88   1.88    1.88   1.88    1.88  1.8B    1.88   1.88    1.88
Trtal produVt ion ('000)               17    32      32    32     32    32    32        32    32       32     32      32    32       32
Sales (Y'000) /a                       29    56      56    56    56    56    56         56    56        56     56      56    56       56
Nursery Ponds
Area (ha)                               3      3      3      3      3      3      3       3      3       3      3       3      3       3
Yield ('000/ha)                        90    90      90    90    90    90    90          90    90      90      90      90    90       90
Total production ( '000)              294   294   294   294   294   294   294           294   294      294   294    294   294    29%
Commercial sales ('000)            230   166   166    166   166   166    166         166   166      166   165      166    166     166
Sales (Y'000) /a                       35    25      25    25    25       25    25       25    25       25     25      25    25       25
Tncome from lessing (Y'000) /d          5      5      5      5      5      5      5       5      5       5      5       5      5       5
Costs (Y'000)
Operating costs /c
Production ponds                     22    22      22    22    22      22    22       22    22       Z2     22      22     22      22
Nursery ponds                         5      5      5     5       5     5      5       5      5        5     5       5      5       5
Subtotal                         27    27      27    27    27       27    27       27    27       27     27      27    27       27
Tax                                     3      4      4      4      4      4      4       4      4       4      4       4     4        4
Total Costs                      30    31      31    31    31    31    31          31    31       31    31       31    31       31
Net Revenue iWOP                 38    54      54    54    54       54    54       54    54       54    54       54    54       54
Incremental Net Revenue    -313  -108   107    124    94   124    54              124    94      124    69    124       94    124
FRR - 238      NPV (12%) - 366
ERR - 27%
/n  At prices of Y i.74/kg for fish and Y 0.15 /fiagerling.
/b  With replacement of trucks every five years; pumps snd equipment every ten years.
/c  At coqts per ha of Y 1,273, Y 1,288 and Y 2,579 for Years 1, 2 and 3-30 of production, respectively, with project;
Y C5/ha for production without project; and Y 1,645/ha of nursery with or without project.
/d  Ponds leased to commune households.



_ 55 _                                                          ANNEX 5
Tible 3e
CHIINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Freshwater fisheries (Guangxi)
Project Financing
(Y'000) /a
Year       1         2        3        4         5        6         7        a         9        10       Ii        12
Cash Inflow with Project
Gross value of
production                 75.5    113.4    295.7    301.3    306.9    315.3    320.9    326.4    334.8    340.4    346.0    354.3
Cash Outflow with Project
Investment & Development
expenditures              314.2    135.2                                  33.9                                           88.o
Operating costs                27.5     28.1      91.2     92.9      94.6     97.2     98.9    100.6    103.2    104.9    106.6    109.2
Incremental working
capital                                       18.0
Taxes                         3.1      5.2      14.8     15.1      15.4     15.8      16.1     16.4      16.8     17.1      17.4     17.8
Net cash flow before
financing
With project               -269.3    -55.1    171.7    193.3    196.9    168.4    205.9    209.4    214.8    218,4    134.0    227.3
Without project              38.8     56.2      57.2     58.3      59.4     61.0     62.1      63.2     64*8      65.9     67.0     68.6
Incremental                -308.1   -111.3    114.5    135.0    137.5    107.4    143.B    145.2    150.0    152.5         67.0    158.7
Financing
Grants                       94.3     40.6
Own funds            I
Long tetm loan
Disbursement              219.9     94.6
Repayment                           11.1     72.7      72.7      72.7     72.7     72.7
Short term loan
Disbursement
Repayment
Net cash flow after
financing
With project                 44.9     69.0      99.0    120.6    124.2      95.7    133.2    209.4    214.8    218.4    134.0    227.3
Incremental                   6.1     12.8     41.8      62.3     64.8      34.7     71.1    146.2    150.0    152.5       67.0    158.7
/a All cash flows in yuan at current prices assuming a 2% rate of domestic Inflation.



ANNEX 5
- 56 -                               Table 4a
CHINA
RURAL CREI)IT PROJECT
Cattle Breeding (Guangxi)
Unit Cost for Investment
( )Y)
Unit     Buildings        Pasture         Roads      Cattle shed      Fencing      Reservoir
Unit    price   Amt.  Value   Amt.   Value  Ant. Value  Amt,   Value  mt.  Value  Amt. Value
(Y/sq m)         (Y/ha)         (Y/lzam)     (Y/sq si)       (Y/ha)        (each)
Labor          workday   3.00    3.28   9.83        -        -     -      -      -       -     -      -    100    300
Labor (farm)  workday   1.50        -      -      10.50    16   333    500    1.84   2.76  5.00   7.50    -
Steel            ton   846.00                       -      -       -         -       -             -      -          -
Cement           ton    88.00    0.01   1.15        -        -     -      -      -       -     -      -       1     88
Lauber           cu m    86.00    0.10   9.02       -           -         -    0.07   5.81   -        -       -      -
Sand             cu m     3.00    0.13   0.39                  -                 -       -     -      -       2       6
Rock             cu m     6.00    0.92   5.50       -              -      -      -       -     -      -       3     20
Tiles           piece    0.05   19.66   0.98        -               -         -      -      -      -      -       -
Bricks          piece    0.03  262.00   7.86        -        -     -      -   53.00   1.59
Glass            case   250.00    0.01   1.31                  -                 -       -
Seed              kg      6.00      -      -      15.00    90      -      -      -      -
Fertilizer        kg      0.12      -      -    124.95    15       -      -      -       -
T7ransport       t/hn     0.20    6.55   1.31       -        -     -      -      -       -
Others            Y        -        -     7.89      -        -     -      -      -       -     -    60.00         -
Total                               45.25            121           500           10.16         67.50          414



ANNEX 5
- 57 -                              Table 4b
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cattle Breeding (Guangxi)
Investment Cost
(Y'000)
Unit    Total
Number   cost    value   Year 1  Year 2  Year 3
Capital Construction
Roads, farm (km)                   6      500       3.0       -      3.0
Roads, graded (km)                 3   10,000      30.0      -      30.0     -
Cattte shed (sq m)             3,320       10      33.7    16.9    16.9       -
Housing (sq m)                   763       45      34.5    34.5       -       -
Reservoirs (each)                 30      414      12.4      4.1     4.1    4.1
Pasture (ha)                  2,667       121    322.0       /a      /a      /a
Fencing (ha)                  2,667        68    180.0      75;      /a e   T
Contingencies @ 10%                -        -      11.4     5.6      5.4    0.4
Subtotal                                       627.0    61.1    59.4    4.6
Machinery, Equipment and
Animals
Cows thead)                    1,600      500    800.0   400.0   400.0        -
Breeding cattle (Angus)            2    8,000      16.0    16.0       -      -
Chaff cutter                       2    1,425       2.9     2.9       -      -
Feed mixer                         1    9,000       9.0     9.0       -      -
Trucks                             2   19,000      38.0    19.0    19.0       -
Subtotal                                      865.9   446.9   419.0       -
Total Investment                             1,492.9   507.9   478.4    4.6
/a Development in proportion to herd growth.



- 58 -                                   ANNEX 5
Table 4c
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cattle Breeding (Guangxi)
Unit Cost for Cattle Breeding
Pasture
Unit   0-6 months   6-30 months          Cows       maintenance
Unit   price  Amt.  Value  Amt.   Value  Amt.   Value  Amt.   Value
---- (Y/head) --------------   -- (Y/ha) --
Labor                workday  1.50    10   15.00  20.00  30.00  20.00  30.00  10.50  15.75
Feed                   kg    0.23      -      -    15.75   3.62  15.75   3.62    -         -
Fertilizer
P205                 kg    0.86      -      -      -       -       -      -    15.75  13.55
Transport            ton-km  0.20      -      -     2.50   0.50   0.35   0.07    -         -
Veterinary              Y      -        -    1.00    -      1.00    -      1.00    -       -
Inseminations         each   3.00      -      -     0.60  1l80   0.80   2.40    -          -
Tools & equipment       Y      -        -     -       -     0.30    -      0.30    -       -
Management              Y      -       -    0.76    -       0.88    -      0.28    -       -
Total                                  16.76          38.10          37.67          29.30



ANNEX 5
Table 44
- 59 -
CHINA
RURAL CReDIT PROJFCT
Cattle Hreedins (Guangxi)
Financial Returns with Pro ect
Ypar:    0         1        2        3        4        5        6        7         8        9        10       11       12       13       14
Begtan strtctk
Cows                             824      831    1,694   2,502   2,438   2,544   2,850   3,224   2,762   2,552   2,688   2,718   2,678   2,677   2,688
Hetfers, 6-30 months            232       351      465      533      863   1,299   1,519    1,698    1,906   2,147   2,129   2,070   2,085   2,098   2,092
Subtotal breoders            88'      918   1.811   2.635   2,654   2.869   3,230   3.648   3 238   3,089   3.220   3,236   3,99    202    3.211
Steers, 6-30 montlhR             188      314      447      524      859   1,297    1,518   1,698   1,906   2,147   2,129   2,070   2,085   2,098   2,092
Calves, 0-6 months              474       587      611    1,204   1,753   1,765    1,908   2.148   2,426   2,154   2,054   2,141    2,152   2,128   2,129
Btrthn /a                       617      643   1,267    1,845   1 ,856   2,008   2,261   2,554   2,267   2,162   2,254   2,26'   2,240   2,241    2,247
Purchased cows                     -      8)0      800        -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Dea t hs
Cows (3W)                        25        25       51       75       73       76       86       97       83        77       81       82       80       80       81
Cattle, 6-10 months (2X)           8       13       18       21       34       52       61       68       76        86       85       83       83       84       84
Cattle, 0-6 months (5X)           31       32       63       92       93      100      113      128       113      108      113      113      112      112      112
Salen
HeIfers, 2 yearn                   -        -        _        _        _        _        _         _        _        _        _
Steers, 2 years                  92       154      219      257      421      636      744      832      934   1,052    1,043    1,014    1,022    1,028    1,025
Cows (culLs @ 1IO)               82        83      169      250      244      254      285   1,197   1,061        840      933      973       942      937      946
Clos in Stock
Cows                            831    1,694   2,502   2,438   2,544   2,850   3,224   2,762   2,552   2,688   2,718   2,678   2,677   2,688   2,686
Heifers, 6-30 mo.ths            351      465       533      863   1,299   1,519   1,698    1,906   2,147   2,129   2,070   2,085   2,098   2,092   2,089
Steera, 6-30 months              314      447      524      859   1,297    1,518    1,698   1,906   2,147   2,129   2,070   2,085   2,098   2,092   2,089
Ca'lves, 0-6 months             587      611    1,204    1,753    1,765    1,908   2,148   2,426   2,154   2,054   2,141    2,152   2,128   2,129   2,135
Total Stock                2,082    3,217   4,764   5,913   6,905   7.795   8,768   9,000   9.000   9.000   9.000   9.000   9,000   9,000   9,000
Improved pasture (ha)              473      473      839   1,204    1,570   1,935   2,301    2,667   2,667    2,667   2,667   2,667   2,667   2,667   2,667
Price, draft animals (Y)           550      535      520      505      490      475      460       445      430      415      400      400      400      400      400
Price, meat aniaals. (Y)           250      265      280      295      310      325      340      355       370      385      400      400      400      400      400
Sales Valu,e (Y000)
Cows /b                           -        22       47       74       76       83       97      425      392      323      373      389       377      375      378
Steers, 2 years /b                -       82       114      130      206      302      342      370      402      437      417      406      409      411      410
Subtotal                       -      104      16t      204      282       385     439       795      794      760      790      795      786      786      788
costs (Wooo)
Fixed investment                  -      580       551       77       72       72       72        -         -        -        -       31       19        -        -
Operating cost /c                 -        49       92      130      137      156      176      198      185      185      190      189       188      188      189
Pasture masntenasce /I d                   14       25       35       46       57       67       78        78       78       78       78       78       78       78
Uorkin8 capital                   -         1        8        8        1        4        4        4       -3         -        I        -        -        -        -
Subtotal                       -      645      676      249      256      289       320      280      260      263      269      298      285      267      267
Net Revensue WP                -    -540    -514        -46        25       96      119      515      534      497      521      497      501      519      522
Net Revenue WOF /e             -       36       52        59       63       68       72       76       81       85       90       98      108       118     129
Net Increment /e               -    -576    -566    -104         -38        28       47      439      453      412      431      399      393      402      393
914  45%       SrSi (12%) - 27
RBR  - 222
/a  Birth rates of 70% for mature cows and 17.57 for heifers 6-30 months.
7W   Cull cows to be sold for beef and 2-year-old steers as draft animals.
7T   At annual toate per head of Y 16.76, Y 38.10 and Y 37.67 for calves 0-6 months, heifeTs/steera 6-30 months, and cows respectively; less
savings on feed for adult animals rasulting from pasture improvement, at rates of Y 3,62/head and Y 2.57/head/ha improved pasture.
/d  At annual costs (labor and fertilizer) of Y 29,30/ha.
7e  Net revenue  OP rises to Y 3t9 mliion by Year 20 anvd stabilizes-, iteeermental retumto  fall to Y 203 millioni froo Year 20 on.



ANNEX S
- 60 -                                                  Table 4c
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cattle Breeding (Guangxi)
Financial Returns Without Project
(y' OO)
Year:    0       1      2       3       4      5       6      7       8      9       10      11     12
Beginning Stock
Cows                          824    806    849    920    999  1,084  1,175  1,273  1,380  1,496  1,621  1,758  1,905
Heifers, 6-30 months         232    351    423    462    498    539    585    634    687    745    807    875    948
Subtotal breeders         882    894    955  1,036  1,124  1,219  1,321  1,432  1.552  1,682  1,823  1,976  2,142
Steers, 6-30 months           188    314    405    453    494    537    584    633    687    745    807    875    948
Calves, 0-6 months           474    503    509    544    590    641    695    753    816    885    959  1,039  1,126
Births /a                    529    536    573    621    674    731    793    859    931  1,009  1,094  1,186  1,285
Purchased cows                  -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -
Deaths
Cows (3%)                      25     24      25     28      30      33     35      38     41      45      49     53      57
Cattle, 6-30 months (2%)       8      13      17     18      20      22     23      25     27      30     32      35      38
Cattle, 0-6 months (5%)        27     29      31      34     37      40     43      47     50      55      59     64      70
sales
elifers, 2 years                -      -       _       _-         -       -      -       -          -       -      -
Steers, 2 years               92    154    199    222    242    263    286    310    337    365    395    429    465
Cows (culls 8 13%)            107    105    110    120    130    141    153    166    179    194    211    228    248
Closing Stock
Cows                          806    849    920    999  1,084  1,175  1,273  1,380  1,496  1,621  1,758  1,905  2,065
Heifers, 6-30 months          351    423    462    498    539    585    634    687    745    807    875    948  1,028
Steers, 6-30 months           314    405    453    494    537    584    633    687    745    807    875    948  1,028
Calves, 0-6 months           503    509    544    590    641    695    753    816    885    959  1,039  1,126  1,221
Total Stock /b          1,973  2,187  2,380  2,582  2,801  3,038  3,293  3.570  3.870  4.194  4,547  4,928  5.342
Improved pasture (ha)           473    473    473    473    473    473    473    473    473    473    473    473    473
Price, draft animals (Y)        500    485    470    455    440    425    410    395    380    365    350    350    350
Price, meat animals (Y)         250    260    270    280    290    300    310    320    330    340    350    350    530
Sales Value (Y'000)
cows !c                         -     27      30      33     38      42     47      53      59     66      74     80      87
Steers, 2 years /c              -     75      93    101    107    112    117    123    128    133    138    150    163
Subtotal                     -    102    123    135    144    154    165    176    187    199    212    230    249
Costs (Y'000)
Fixed investment                -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -
Operating cost /d               -     51      56     61      66      72     78      84     91      99    107    116    126
Pasture maintenance /e          -      14     14      14     14      14      14     14      14     14      14     14      14
Working capital                 -       I      1       1      I       I             1       1      2       2      2       2
Subtotal                     -     66      71     76      81     87      93      99    106    114    123    132    142
Net Revenue WOP /f          -      36      52     59      63     68      72      76     81      85     90      98    108
/a  Birth rates of 60% for mature cows and 15% for heifers 6-30 months.
/b  Total herd size rises to 7,000 by Year 16, and composition stabilizes by Year 20.
/c Cull cows to be sold for beef and 2-year-old steers as draft animals. Prices without project are lower because
of lower body weight at sale.
/d At annual costs per head of Y 16.76, Y 38.10 and Y 37.67 for calves 0-6 months, heifers/steers 6-30 months, and
cows respectively.
/e At annual costs (labor and fertilizer) of Y 29.30/he.
If Net revenue WOP risea to Y 319 million by Year 20 and stabilizes thereafter.



- 61 -                                                   ANNEX 5
Table 4f
CHINA
RURAI. CRFDIfT PROJPCT
Cnttle Bnroeen_ (j,innLii)
Project Financing
(y '300)/
Year         )         1         2         1         4          5         6         7         8          9         I0         I
Cash Jnflow with ProLect
Grons valuie of
prodtiction                  71.0     106.1      167.4    216.2    304.6    423.5    496.1          914.3    929.0    912.0    963.8    q85.R
Cash Outflow witi Project
Investment f. Development
expendituires                         591.6      573,n      81.6      77.8       74.2      81.4
Operating expendituires           44.0      64.3     121.7    174.9       197.f     234.3    274.f6    117.4    307.8    315.6          127.0    331.1
Incremental working
cnpital                       9.0        1.0       8.3       8.9        1.1       4.4       4.5       4.6      -3.5          -       1.2
Taxes
Net cash flow before
financing
With project                    18.0   -550.8   -535.6    -48.8          28.1     105.6    135.6    592.3    624.7         596.4    635.6    6S4.7
Without project                 16.0)     36.7      54.1      62.5      68.0       74.8      81.4      87.4       94.8     102.0    19.8    121.5
Incremental                      2.0   - 587.5   -589.7   -111.1    -39.9          30.8      54.2     504.9    529.9    494.4        525.8    533.2
Financing
Grants
own fuinds                               177.5    171.9       24.5       23.3      23.8      24.4
Long term loan
Disbursement                          414.1    401.1        57.1      54.5       55.4      57.0
Repayment                                                                                           277.8    277.8    277.8    277.8    277 .8
Short term loan
Diqbursement
Repaymeat
Net cash flow after
Financing
With project                    18.0      40.8      37.4      32.8      105.9    184.8      217.0      314.5    346.9    318.6    357.8    376.9
Incremental                      2.0       4.1    -i6.7    -29.7        37.9    110.0       135.6    227.1       252.1     216.6    248.0    255.4
/a  All cash flows In yuan at current prices assuming a 2% rate of domesttc Inflation.



AN=NEi 5
- 62-                                Tab-La 5.
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Poultry Breeding
Investment in Fixed Capital
(Y'OOO)
Number   Unit cost   Total value   Year 1
Capital Construction (sq m)
Layer house                            7,500         70             525          525
Replacements                           2,250         70             158          158
Chick raising                          1,000        100             100          100
Incubation                               500        100              50           50
Feed storage                             500        100              50           50
Dormitories                            3,700        150             555          555
Of fices                                 150        150              23           23
Roads and walls                            -          -             253          253
Contingencies @ 10%                        -          -              86           86
Subtotal                                                      1,884         1,884
Machinery and  qupipment
Incubator (no.)                           12         10             120          120
Desheller (no.)                            5          8              40           40
Poultry house equipment (Y)                -          -             400          400
Air-conditioned truick (no.)               3         40             120          120
Sulbtotal                                                       680           680
Other Capital Costs
Land acquisition fee                       -          -             100          100
Water/electricity/installation             -          -             170          170
Subtotal                                                        270           270
Total                                                         2,834        Z.,834



ANNEX 5
- 63                                Tal-5
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT 1PROJECT
Poultry Breedi.ng
Operation Cost for Poul]try Breeding
(Y/year)
Pullet stage  L.aying stage
Unit    (140 days)   (12 nmonths)       Hatchery
Unit   price  Amt.   Value  Amt.   Value  Amt.   Value
(per bird)/a  (per bird)/b  (per 100)/c
Labor                   workday 5.00   0.04    0.18   0.18   0.92   0.15   0.75
Breeder chickens          no.    3.00   1.43    4.30    -         -       -      -
Pullets                   no.     -       -        -
Hatching eggs             no.     -       -        -          -       -       -
Concentrate                kg    0.50   9.00    4.50  50.00  25.00    -          -
Veterinary care            Y      -       -       0.25    -      0.30    -      0.10
Electricity               kWh   0,18   2.29    0.40   6.86   1.20  22.86   4.00
Water                     eu m   0.16   1.56    0.25   5.00   0.80   1.25   0.20
Toels & equipment          Y      -       -       0.08    -      0.20    -      0.20
Transport cost             Y      -       -       0.18    -      1.00    -      5.00
O&M                        Y      -       -       0.08    -      0.2()    -      1.00
Management overhead        Y      -       -       0.02    -      0.08    -      0.10
Total                                      10.23           29.70          11.35
/a Per bird surviving; divided by 1.43 for costs per starter.
lb Per layer.
/c  Per hatched chick; unit costs for infertile eggs or chiicks which die
before marketing are the same less transport costs.



- 64 -                              ANNEX 5
Table 5c
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Poultry Breeding
Financial Return to Poultry Breeding Farm
(Y'065)
Year:     1           2         3-14         15         16-30
Breeders (Sexed)              27,230       27,230      27,230      27,230      27,230
of which:
Culls (5%)                 1,360        1,360       1,360       1,360       1,360
Reserve coc.:s             3,520       3,520        3,520       3,520       3,520
Reserve hens              22,350      22,350       22,350      22,350      22,350
Mature cocks /a                   -       2,100       2,100       2,100       2,100
productive hens /b                -      19,000      19,000      19,000      19,00U
Production /c
Eggs ('000)                       -       3,420       3,420       3,420       3,420
Hatching eggs ('000)              -       2,736       2,736       2,736       2,736
Breeding chicks                 -      2,189        2,189       2,189       2,189
Unhatched eggs                  -         547         547         547         547
Culled hens ('000 kg)             -          17          34          34           34
Table eggs ('000 kg)              -          34          34          34          34
Sales Value (Y'000) /d
Breeders                          -       2,419       2,419       2,419       2,419
Table eggs                        -          73          73          73          73
Culled hens                       -          38          75          75          75
Chicken manure                    -          28          28          28          28
Mink feed                         -           5           5           5            5
Subtotal                      -       2,563       2,601       2,601        2,601
Costs (Y'WOO) /e
Fixed capital                2,834            -           -         680           -
Production cost
Reserve stock                194          194         194         194         194
Laying hens, cocks                        638         638         638         638
IncubatiolL                     -        283          283         283         283
Subtotal                    194       1,115        1,115       1,115       1,115
Working capital                  39         184           -           -           -
Taxes (5%)                        -         128         130         130         130
Total Cost                3,067        1,427       1,245       1,925       1,245
Net Revenue WP           -3,067        1.136       1,355         675       1,355
FRR = 42%      NPV (12%) - 6,676
ERR = 40%
la  Assuming 40% death/cull rate for reserve cocks and desired ratio of cocks
to hens of 1:9.
/b  Assuming 15% death rate for reserve hens.
/c  Assuming 180 eggs/hen/year, of which 80% are input to the hatchery and the
remainder sold as table eggs; 80% hatching or survival rate for breeder
chicks, the remainder used as mink feed; and weights of 1.8 kg for culled
hens and 5 g per table egg.
/d  Unit prices are Y 1.11 per unsexed breeder chick; Y 2.14/kg for table
eggs; Y 2.20/kg culled hens; Y 60/ton chicken manure; and a feed value of
Y 0.01/unhatched egg or dead chick.
/e  Unit costs of Y 7.14/starter for reserve stock; Y 29.7/layer; Y 34.7/cock;
and Y 11.35/100 chicks hatched (less Y 5 transport cost for dead chicks).



- 6; -                                                               ANNEX 5
Table Sd
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Poultry Breeding (Guangxi)
Projece Financing
(Y'O00) /a
Year        1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10         11       12
Cash Inflow with Project
Gross value of
production                         2,665.5  2,757.1  2,809.1  2,861.1  2,939.1  2,991.2  3,043.2  3,121.2  3,173.2  3,225.2  3,303,3
Cash Outflow with Project
Investment & Development
expenditures             2,890.7
Operating expenditures          197.9  1,159.6  1,181.9  1,204.2  1,226.5  1,260.0  1,282.3  1,304.6  1,338.0  1,360.3  1,382.6  1,416.1
Incremental working
canital                     39.8    191.4
Taxes                             -    133.1      137.8     140.4    143.0      146.9    149.5    152.1       156.0    158.6    161.2    165.1
Net cash flow before
financing
With projcct              -3,128.4  1,181.4  1,437.4  1,464.5  1,491.6  1,532.2  1,559.4  1,586.5  1,627.2  1,654.3  1,681.4  1.722.1
Without project
Incremental               -3,128.4  1,181.4  1,437.4  1,464.5  1,491.6  1,532.2  1,559.4  1,586.5  1,627.2  1,654.3  1,681.4  1,722.1
Financing
Grants                     2,000.0
Own funds
Long term loan
Disbursement               980.0
Repayment                            527.0    527.0
Short term loan
Disbursement                148.4
Repayment                            156.9
Net cash flow after
financing
With project                      0    497.5    9;0.4  1,464.5  1,491.6  1,532.2  1,559.4  1,586.5  1,627.2  1,654.3  1,681.4  1,722.1
Incremental                       0    497,5    siO.4  1,464.5  1,491.6  1,532.2  1,559.4  1,586.5  1.627.2  1,654.3  1,681.4  1,722.1
/a  All cash flows in yuan at current prices assuming a 2% rate of domestic inflation.



- 66 -                              ANNEX 6
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD fiscal
years and semesters                   Disbursements                      Cumulative
1985
1st                                   1.0                              1.0
2nd                                   3.0                              4.0
1986
1st                                   4.0                              8.0
2nd                                   6.0                             14.0
1987
lst                                   7.0                             21.0
2nd                                   9.0                             30.0
1988
1st                                   9.0                             39.0
2nd                                   8.0                             47.0
1989
1st                                   3.0                             50.0



- 67 -
ANN1EX7
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data in the Project File
1. China Rural Credit Project: Project Preparation/Preappraisal Report,
August 24, 1983.
2.  China Rural Finance:  A Sector Study, World Bank Report No. 3864-CHA.
3.  China:  Draft Case Studies for Rural Project Appraisal Manual,
December 12, 1983.
Working Papers Prepared by Consultants on the Preappraisal and Appraisal
Missions.
4. "Report on the Agronomist's Assignment", October 1983.
5. "Report on the Livestock Specialist's Assignment", October 1983.
6. "Aquaculture Component Sub-Project Case Studies", 1983.
7. "Improvement and Enlargement of the Jiang Te Fish Farm, Wuhan, Hubei
Province", 1983.
8. "Improvement Guilin First State Fish Farm", 1983.
9. "Guangxi Aquatic Study Research Institute", Nanning, Guangxi,
September 1983.
10. "Tong Lan Brigade Fish Farm", Guilin, Guangxi, September 1983.
11.  "Wuhan Aquatic Research Institute", Wuhan Municipality, Hubei,
September 1983.
12.  "Jiang She Commune Fish Farm", Wuhan Municipality, Hubei, September 1983.
13.  "Qing Lin Commune Fish Farm", Wuhan Municipality, Hubei, September 1983.
14. "South Lake Fish Farm", Wuhan Municipality, Hubei, September 1983.
15. "Livestock Working Paper", June 24, 1983.
16. "Aguaculture Component Preappraisal Report".
17.  "Report on the Organizationai/Institutional Aspects of the Project",
June 3, 1983.
18. "A Brief Summary of Fruit Growing in Guangxi Province".
19.  "General and Technical Issues in Aquaculture Projects", November 4, 1983.



u,  S       S    R.
'   SuirvL                                                            .f*x                     I 
eg   ~~~~~2  -a.)  <  __-Fm   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (.ga                                               '         <>~~~~~~~~Uloosbastor  
--ISe                                                                                                     --,5--v  C    N  G    O   L  I A
AFGHAN ISTA'                                                                                                                                                                    H,tlhioi
ra                                                                                                                                                                                     P _a 0             N / 
>-   ( \   9 t =   !  X  I    Nm  i  -<    A  N    G                              <                        _  _      v  '                aofAnODC       >~~~~~~~~~~~~-  (S
This nap has been prepared by
The Wand honks- claP encl-sniefY-)
to, the convenience af the                                                                (
renders and is e-c/-civtiy tcr the
and th tternationa FIance -
Corporation rhO denaminelinns                                                                              .          fuyf    4     p,/ f   un
used and the boundares Shown
o n this mrtp do noa iipbi on the                                                     XC"                                                                    !t., i >1          
paxrt e The Wa,d Rat and the .C   Th JE
Ic enteahanat Finance Csrparatiw  o.                                                                                                                                                  --. -v-   n1aflt   1 -
jcy dgiees as the tegat stats
a any territar,Y or an                                     ,
enose ,er a accepance o                                        Zt         A                                                                                                         CH   U
sad5h boudarieS
, ,A                          X    Y ; ;)% \ / I                                                     t
CSO~~~~~C
C H I N A                                                                                                 Xl¢_                             1  
R U R A L C R E D I T P R O J E C T                                                              \A>    <   w  ganig >) >>Z-nYJ   zr.                                    C
-n3#-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c~ Ziniiji g
al  Projencta  CPrOince                                                       23 X                                      , 74
~  rovicalBudas ()ri\>\ <<a n
lailwuvs                                                                                                                                 U ,
Double Track                                                                               -                                                        teL~n
-'----Single TrackN                                                                                                          -
*   Airports                                                        ~Aicne
4,  Major Ports                                                          cci;~W~ 
St  Pronincial Capitals                                                            '.                          I<
o  Major Townsf                                                                                       i.r,n.
- -   ProVinCial BoundarieS 
,   ~         ~~~~ N R~t E P0 Uq E          ,D nro $/X.r
-       - International Boundaries                                                               *  j  ,  _ _
LAO PEQt'PLE'St1L.
L.DENA'CRATIC/
REPUBLIC                               4                 otis
/TFI.-,IL Ar,4r>~ ~ ~~~~~L                                              n- I



t  _ _____ __ _ . I~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 174E
2 ' -o *20 ,_ ,30 I4os ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY 1
0  ;  t  X  . s .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g                                                     S  .    R 
0   GCO L I &Ar1g :--
r   'J  g   b                   s                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lcd,,oslok
',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO  KOREA,
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F
rf , 9s,_5HA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N6HAI SHI
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,Ro
'~~~~~    
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, b  Je
ho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bn2
1 v; E>l,; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h                             a . OtO
D P  E 'Sri.,           
RAT,C  9   Do^7f^2    '29t;t;':  a0     >      ]X      5       tJ           PHiL\PPiNESTA  WA 
<  ~      ~~~~ M21'1''g                                                                                                      X



