Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFF1CIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo.  11125
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1462-CHA)
SEPTEMBER 22, 1992
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency:  Yuan (Renminbi)
Rate of Exchange:        Appraisal          US$1.00 - Y 2.0
1985               US$1.00 - Y 2.9
1986              US$1.00 - Y 3.2
1987              US$1.00 - Y 3.7
1989              US$1.00 - Y 4.7
1990              US$1.00 = Y 5.2
Fiscal Year of Borrower:  July 1  -  June 30
Weights and Measures: Metric System
1 Meter (m)       -            3.28 Feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)  -            0.62 Mile
1 Hectare (ha)     X           2.47 Acres
ABBREVIATIONS
ABC         Agricultural Bank of China
CAM         Country Assistance Management
CCE         Brigade and Commune Enterprises
EDI         Economic Development Institute
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO         Food and Agricultural Organization of the
United Nations
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GZAR        Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
IWC         Incremental Working Capital
MOF         Ministry of Finance
OMS         Operational Manual Statement
PAR         Performance Audit Report
PCR         Project Completion Report
PRE         Policy, Research, and External Affairs
RCC         Rural Credit Cooperatives
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report



FoR omlcIL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
September 22, 1992
HEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Performance Audit Report on CHINA
Rural Credit Proiect (Credit 1462-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Performance Audit Report on China Rural Credit Project (Credit 1462-CHA)"
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
the official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bo disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1462-CHA)
TABLE OF CON1
age No,
PREFACE .............................................                                  i
BASIC DATA SHEET .iii
EVALUATION SUYMARY.                                                                    v
Bakground.                                                                             1
Project Identification and Preparation.                                                2
Project Objectives and Description.                                                    4
Inpenntation Experience.                                                               6
Introduction.                                                                    6
Project Size and Subloan Processing Problems.                                    7
Counterpart Funding and Incremental Working Capital.                             7
Procurement .8
Training, the Role of EDI and Technical Assistance.                              8
Supervision by the Bank.                                                         9
Results .10
Findings and Lessons Learned .11
(a) Project Size .11
(b) Technology Transfer-a Missed Opportunity .12
(c) Supervision by IDA .13
(d) The Orange Market .14
(e) Filing .15
MAP: IBRD 17483R4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- 1.-
PERFORMANCE AUDRR
RURAL CRED1T PROJECr
(Cr. 1462-CHAA
PRE3FACE
This is the Performance Audit Report (PAR) of the Rural Credit Project for which Credit
1462-CHA in the amount of SDR 47.2 million (US$50 million equivalent) was approved on April 24,
1984. The objectives of the project were to increase agricultural and rural production and incomes
by supporting the lending programs and institutional development of the Agricultural Bank of China
(ABC) in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (GZAR). The credit was fully disbursed and closed
on schedule, on June 30, 1989.
The PAR is based on the Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared jointly by staff of the
Asia Region of IDA (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II),
which was issued on March 11, 1991, and on the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the
credit documents, a review of IDA files and on discussions with Bank staff. An OED mission visited
China in August/September 1990, discussed the effectiveness of Bank assistance with Borrower
agencies and visited a sample of ABC branches and enterprises financed under the project. The kind
cooperation and valuable assistance of Chinese staff in the preparation of this report is gratefully
acknowledged.
The PCR provides extensive details of the project's formulation, implementation and results.
The PAR notes the project's substantial physical achievements and contribution to ABC's institutional
strengthening. The report then elaborates on aspects relating to the expansion of the on-lending
program as affected by devaluation, probable over-investment in citrus, the missed opportunity for
technology transfer, the failure to allocate the foreign exchange risk to subborrowers able to bear it,
and on the inadequacy of the Bank's contribution through supervision of the project.
Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PAR were sent to the Borrower for
comments. However, no comments were received.






- il$ -
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1462-CHA)
BASIC DATA SHEET
PROJECT DATES
Date Planned             Dat- Actual
Identification (PB)                                              01/05/83
Preparation                                                      04/02/83
Appraisal Mission                                                08/29/83
Negotiations                                                     03/12/84
Board Approval                        04/24/84                   04/24/84
Signing Date                          06/01/84                   06/01/84
Effective Date                        11/01/84                   11/01/84
Completion Date                       06/30/89                   06/30/88
Closing Date                          06/30/89                   06/30/89
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (USS ' 000)
Appraisal                Actual as Z        Actual as Z
Ouarter Ending        Estimate     Actual      of Estimste         of Total
1984/1985     I             0.5                        0                  0
II            1.0         4.95         495                  9
III            2.5         5.70         228                  10
IV            4.0         9.57         239                 17
1985/1986     I             6.0        12.72         212                 23
II            8.0         15.67         196                28
III           11.0         18.56         169                 33
IV           14.0         22.11         158                40
1986/1987     I            17.5        24.61         141                 44
II           21.0         26.71         127                48
III           25.5         30.58         120                55
IV           30.0         34.75         116                62
1987/1988     I            34.5        37.47         109                 67
II           39.0         43.24        111                 77
III           43.0         46.06         107                83
IV           47.0         48.00        102                 86
1988/1989     I            48.5        55.64         115                 99
II           50.0         55.82         112 a/            100
gl Th acua asmo disbunud incrsaad in kim of USS dw to devauation of
US$ vs. SDR during imple.mantion.



- iv -
MISSION DATA
Stage of            Month/        No. of         Staff Days                        Performance
Proiect C.clo         Year           erns           in Fieldj     Specialization       Rating
Reconnaissance        10/81            4               21         Econ/Eng/Fin.            -
Identification        4/82             4               21         Econ/Fin.Ag.Ec.          -
7/82            1                9         Ag. Econ.
Preparation            1/83            1               14         Agronomist
4/83            8               28         Ag/Econ/Econ/Fin.        -
Eng/Poultry Spec.
Aquacult.
Appraisal             9/83             6               28         Ag/Econ/Econ/Eng.        -
Aquac. Poult. Spec.
Supervision 1 A/      11/84           6                28         Ag/Econ/Econ/Aquac.      1
Poultry Spec.
Supervision 2         12/85            1               7          Ag. Econ.                1
Supervision 3         9/86             1               14         Fin.                     1
Supervision 4         12/87            2               7          Fin. Agron.              1
Supervision 5 b/      10/88            1              n.a.        Fin.                     1
PCR Mission           3/90             2               10         Econ/Agroproc.           1
a/ Combined with identification of Rural Credit II.
b/ In Beijing. Combined with identification of Rural Credit IV.
STAFF INPUTS
FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89   Total
Preappraisal           9.0  54.2  12.7                                              75.9
Appraia-l                            50.7                                           50.7
Negotiations                          5.1                                            5.1
Supervision                                 15.5    6.9    5.4   7.2    2.1         37.1
Total    9.0   54.2  68.5  15.5    6.9    5.4   7.2   2.1   168.8



- v -
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1462-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction                              processing), and (b) strengthening of
ABC through technical assistance (es-
1.    About 80 percent of the people of   pecially project appraisal methodolo-
China depend on agriculture and Guangxi   gy).  The enterprises to be financed
Zhuang Autonomous Region (GZAR) is one  were orchards (mainly citrus), fisher-
of the poorest  provinces,  with per   ies, livestock and agro-processing.
capita gross output a third lower than
the national average. Introduction of
the "production responsibility system"   Implementation Experience
in China has accelerated growth of
agriculture  and increased demand for  4.    The project was completed well
credit.                                   ahead of schedule  and  far exceeded
appraisal lending and physical tar-
2.    The Agricultural Bank of China   gets.   This expansion resulted from
(ABC) lends for production, processing   devaluation such that on-lending funds
and marketing,  provides  a range  of  more than doubled.   Consequently the
financial  services  and  manages  the  processing  capability  of  ABC  was
rural credit cooperative system.  ABC/   stretched beyond safe limits and de-
Guangxi has about 11,000 staff in about   mand for counterpart funds could not
1,100 offices around the region.  The   be met.  The rate of subloan process-
Rural Credit Project was the fifth Bank   ing was increased  greatly to keep to
Group assisted project in China and the   the original commitment schedule.  As
first foreign funding of ABC.             a  result,  processing  was  sometimes
skimped and "some marginal quality
Project Objectives                        subprojects"  were  approved.    Also,
follow-up by ABC staff to assist sub-
3.    The major objectives of the pro-   borrowers was unavoidably limited.
ject were to (a) support a three-year
lending program of the ABC (which was   5.    There was  also a shortage of
part of a high-priority government dev-   good quality planting material and of
elopment effort to increase agricul-   agricultural  inputs.    Shortage  of
tural and rural production and incomes   fundings was a constraint throughout
through the diversification and modern-   implementation,  resulting  in  inade-
ization of agricultural production and   quate working capital for subprojects,



- vi -
which  affected  especially  the large   ahead of schedule,   according to the
area of perennial orchard crops.          PCR.
6.    Project   implementation   began   9.    Other  indicators   of  results
before the credit was  approved with   given in the PCR are very impressive
respect to important institutional and  with estimated households benefitting
training activities.  The Bank's Eco-   more than doubling over the SAR figure
nomic  Development   Institute   (EDI)   to about 200,000 and creation of the
played a valuable role in organizing   equivalent of some 380,000 full-time
training  courses  in China  on  rural   jobs (a fourfold increase).
credit, especially on appraisal meth-
odology. Further training courses were   10.   Some  1,240  subprojects  were
held for both ABC/Guangxi staff and ABC   completed,  but  the  project  mix  by
staff from other provinces.  ABC also   scale  and cost was  quite  different
found Bank staff assistance very valu-   from that expected at appraisal.  All
able in training of auditors and in   sub-components were greatly expanded,
setting up the project's evaluation and  with investments in citrus more than
monitoring system, with the help of   doubling and agro-processing invest-
foreign short-term consultants.           ments tripling.   About 28,000 ha of
citrus were planted, three times the
7.    Funds allocated for hiring for-   appraisal plan of 9,000 ha, and 118
eign consultants for training assis-   agro-processing  units  were  financed
tance were not used, partly because   instead of 12.   The citrus area fi-
training received in EDI courses and   nanced was a substantial expansion of
Bank  staff  contributions  during  ap-   28 percent for GZAR as a whole and 5.6
praisal resolved some technical issues.   percent of China's total citrus area
Bank staff also assisted ABC to draft   of 506,900 hectares in 1985.   Taken
a subproject appraisal manual, which is  together, the tree crop planting pro-
now widely used in ABC, and with ar-   gram financed over 70,000 hectares,
rangements for study tours.                compared with 18,600 hectares origi-
nally planned, an almost fourfold
Results                                    increase and a very large additional
burden on ABC's processing and super-
8.    The project made a substantial   vision resources.  Livestock financing
contribution to development of agri-   also expanded greatly.
culture in GZAR, especially for tree
crops, livestock and agro-processing.   11.   Institutionally, ABC was greatly
Financial rates of return on subloans   strengthened with respect to appraisal
are reported as very healthy at around   methodology and trained staff, espe-
25 percent, similar to appraisal. Eco-   cially in GZAR but also throughout the
nomic rates of return range from 17  bank by the training of trainers and
percent to 26 percent, with a "solid  wide distribution and use of the ap-
overall average of 20 percent," com-   praisal manual.
pared with 27 percent at appraisal.
However, there may be some uncertainty   Findings and Lessons Learned
surrounding some rates of return given
the falling prices for citrus, the main   12.   Project Size.   It was unfortu-
investment.  Repayments on subloans are   nate that ABC and government staff,



- vii -
with no  apparent  objection by  IDA,   orange planting and to place emphasis
stuck to a project processing schedule   on assisting post-harvest investments,
and commitment period which was too  was given by the Bank to ABC.  Subse-
short once the size of the project   quent to the project under audit the
expanded, driven as it was by devalued   Bank Group has assisted a surprisingly
Yuan generated by the IDA Credit.  Had   large number  of projects where  the
the commitment period been extended,   main component was  establishment  of
presumably  fewer  marginal  projects   orange orchards.
would have been financed and supplies
of working capital and good quality   16.   Although demand for citrus has
planting material would have been less   been expanding rapidly,  clearly the
constraining.    The  consequences  of   spectacular planting response in the
approving marginal loans and of estab-   citrus areas to the earlier high pric-
lishing orchards with inferior planting   es, and the Bank Group's widespread
material will emerge in due course.       support  of new planting,  have been
instrumental in lowering prices and
13.   Technology Transfer--a Missed Op-  making oranges more generally avail-
portunity.  The major objective of the   able.  This is a great success story
project was to support a lending pro-   but the market situation needs to be
gram by ABC which was part of a high  kept under close review and the mea-
priority government development effort   sures adopted, inter alia, under the
to  increase  agricultural  and  rural   project to expand post-harvest facili-
production and incomes through diversi-   ties and to spread the peak harvest
fication and modernization of agricul-   period,  need to be continued.   The
tural production and processing.  The   financial performance of orange sub-
project's   procurement   arrangements   loans, and therefore the loan repay-
restricted most purchases to domestic   ment rate could be threatened by the
goods.  Constraints to importation did   fall in prices.
exist at the time but, in view of the
importance of enhancing the level of  17.   Supervision by IDA.  The PCR, in
technology, the Bank should have made   both the Bank's and ABC's sections,
a greater effort to ensure that appro-   records  that  the  borrower  expected
priate, technically advanced equipment   more assistance from the Bank during
was available to subborrowers.   This   implementation.  This was verified in
equipment was not available and the   comments to the audit mission.  ABC in
project  therefore  did  not  support   particular, while complimentary about
government's modernization strategy to  the Bank staff's contributions, stated
the extent intended.                      that there were too few supervision
missions and that the technical exper-
15.   The Orange Market.  Through the   tise of missions was not always appro-
project,  IDA has  been prominent  in  priate.  The audit confirmed that the
support of the rapid expansion of the   Bank's contribution to the project's
Guangxi citrus industry, but there is   implementation was less than the situ-
now concern that falling prices may   ation demanded.   Current supervision
lead  to marketing and profitability   guidelines require that a supervision
problems.  This problem was identified   plan be agreed with the borrower be-
during project implementation and ap-   fore Board approval to minimize sur-
propriate  advice,  to  cease  funding   prises on both sides.



- viii -
18.   Filing.  References to file prob-   ject  implementation  schedule,  when
lems occur several times in the PAR   circumstances change, can have unde-
text.  In particular, there is a nota-   sirable consequences, and that flexi-
ble absence of some important incoming   bility is preferable; that procurement
messages on file, although other docu-   arrangements can have a critical im-
ments refer to such messages.   Also,   pact on technology transfer objectives
the original "project proposal," sub-   for better or worse;  that perennial
mitted by ABC and referred to in a Bank   crop expansion can lead to marketing
project brief, was not found in the   and profitability problems when supply
files.                                     expands  too quickly,  and that Bank
supervision inputs need to be better
19.   Management attention to filing   planned and agreed with borrowers.a/
deficiencies, of which this is but one
example, would be worthwhile and possi-
bly could make a small contribution to
improving operational efficiency and   a/  Comments on a draft of this report
project results.                               received from the Bank's regional
office and the Legal Department
20.   This project experience suggests         have been added to the main text
that adhering to a predetermined pro-          or footnoted.



PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Cr. 1462-CIA
Background
1.    The agricultural sector provided in the early 1980s about 35 percent of China's GDP and
supported about 800 million people out of a total of about one billion. Production systems are
intensive since only about a tenth of the land area is arable, with China meeting its basic food
requirements for 22 percent of the world's population from less than 8 percent of the world's
arable land. People's communes, state farms and privately managed plots accounted for 87, 5 and
8 percent respectively of arable land and 80, 4 and 16 percent respectively of the gross value of
agriculture production (SAR, para. 1.02).
2.    The historical sector growth rate of 3.2 percent from 1955-79 increased to over 5 percent
after 1979. Reforms since 1976 have decentralized production decisions, increased farm gate
prices substantially, increased family plot size, expanded rural markets and placed more emphasis
on loan financing through ABC rather than grant finance. Introduction of the "production
responsibility system," which provides incentives by allowing farm labor to benefit directly from
increased output, led to greater demand for credit.
3.    Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (GZAR), the project area, is in southeast China
(see map) in the tropical or sub-tropical zone on the border with Vietnam. To the east
Guangdong Province is the hinterland of Hong-Kong and Guangzhou (Canton). GZAR had a
population of 37 million in 1982, with about a third from the Zhuang minority group, and was the
eighth poorest of the 29 provinces and autonomous regions. Per capita gross output is a third
less than the national average. Ninety percent of the population is rural. GZAR is tropical and
subtropical (with annual rainfall of about 1,560 mm.), with 60 percent of cultivated area irrigated.
Rice production has increased rapidly since 1970 (4-6.5 percent p.a.). As a proportion of national
production, GZAR produced 18 percent of the sugarcane, 8 percent of the jute, about 3 percent
of both grain and tobacco and 4 percent of the fruits (mostly citrus). Fruit production in GZAR
grew by 50 percent from 1980-82. In the early 1980s, GZAR's labor force of 12.9 million was
organized into 268,300 production teams, 13,768 production brigades and 1,038 communes, with
541 state farms run mostly by county bureaux. Physical infrastructure is relatively well developed,
including 1,710 km of railway line and river passage to Hong-Kong.
4.    The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), one of eight national-level financial institutions,
was restored in 1979 by the State Council as the dominant institution for the mobilization of rural
savings and the financing of the agricultural sector. ABC is charged with contributing to the
effective execution of government economic policy in the rural areas, including not only agricul-
tural production lending, but also lending for commercial and industrial activities which support
agricultural development. In addition to its main task of mobilizing rural saving and extending
credit, ABC supplies a wide range of banking services to rural areas, provides leadership to rural
credit cooperatives (RCC) and financial advice to communes, brigades and production teams
(SAR, paras 2.01 and 2.02).



- 2 -
5.    In the early 1980s, ABC had 27 branch offices in the provincial capitals and autonomous
regions, 2,499 subbranches, 86 business offices in major urban centers, 24,803 offices at communes
and 403 offices at state farms. In addition, 59,000 RCCs were effectively part of the ABC
network. ABC staff proper totalled 285,000, plus 250,000 RCC staff, of which less than 5 percent
were graduates (SAR, paras 2.02 and 2.05). In 1982, ABC's balance sheet showed the equivalent
of US$26.5 billion in deposits, US$38.6 billion in loans (an increase of 26 percent on 1981), and
capital grants from government totalling US$11 billion. Income was US$2.4 billion, expenditure
US$1.8 billion, giving an "Accumulated net gain" of US$577 million (SAR, Annex 1). About 80
percent of ABC's portfolio was short-term loans and 42 percent was loans to individuals.
Information on overdues was not available as loans were "generally rolled over and kept nominally
current" (SAR, para. 2.17).
6.    ABC in Guangxi (ABC/Guangxi) had a regional office in Nanning, 194 municipal,
prefectural or county offices, 974 commune offices and 25 offices on state farms. In addition,
3,087 RCC credit stations provided services at commune and brigade levels. There were 11,390
staff in ABC proper and a further 11,360 staff in the RCCs controlled by ABC/Guangxi. Sixty
percent of the ABC and RCC staff had at least 20 years banking experience, but only 8 percent
of ABC staff were university graduates. Deposits in 1982 totalled US$446 million equivalent,
equity from ABC Beijing was US$318 million and loans outstanding amounted to US$840.5
million, of which a fifth were medium- and long-term loans. ABC/Guangxi reported a profit of
US$18.5 million equivalent in 1982 (SAR, paras 3.04-3.05).
Project Identification and Preparation
7.    This fifth Bank-assisted project for the agricultural sector in China was scheduled in the
Bank's lending program from the early days of Bank operations in China (the 1981 Country
Program Paper included proposed rural credit projects in FY84 and FY87). As part of the
identification process, the Bank sent a rural credit mission in late 1981 which produced "Rural
Finance: A Sector Study" (Report No. 3864-CHA, of August 31, 1982). The mission noted that
"Extension of the production responsibility system is likely to add significantly to the demand for
credit and banking services at the household level" (para. 25). It also reported that ABC's
interest rate structure, staff training and appraisal process ("the weakest area") required attention,
but that the role of external assistance "will be mainly catalytic, in view of the small amounts of
external funding likely to be involved relative to annual loan volumes..." It concluded by
observing that "Assistance in strengthening ABC's institutional capabilities is ultimately likely to
be as valuable as the financial resources which are provided" [by donors]. This project was to be
the first international loan taken by ABC.
8.    In the sector mission's back-to-office report it had noted that "Among the provincial
offices visited, ABC/Guangxi seemed to be the most interested in the possibility of tapping World
Bank financial resources and technical assistance..." "Based on our quick assessment... orange
production for processing (juice or canned sections) appeared to be financially attractive" (files,
12/8/81). Such details were not included, however, in the sector study and it was to be almost a
year before Guangxi and Hubei Province were identified in a telex to ABC of November 1982 as
the target project areas. During this period, the sector study was discussed with the Chinese
authorities and ABC was advised in May 1981 that the choice of one or two provinces for the
first project was the next critical step. The selection of Guangxi and Hubei was apparently made
by ABC in its project proposal (according to a later project brief), although there was nothing
found on the files in this respect. Delay on the Chinese side was attributed, in the files, in part at



least, to ABC's concerns on whether IDA funds were going to be available. Given IDA's
replenishment uncertainties, the Bank had advised ABC that neither the IDA credit amount nor
precise timing of the project's Board presentation could be predicted.
9.    In January 1982, IFAD had advised the Bank that it was expecting ABC to formulate a
project for IFAD finance, possibly for appraisal by the Bank. It was then agreed to process a
single project for joint financing by IDA and IFAD, and IFAD contributed to the various missions
which followed. However, the government was concerned that joint financing might create
difficulties since IFAD funds were channelled through the Ministry of Agriculture whereas IDA
funds were channelled through the Ministry of Finance. In July 1983, the government suggested
splitting the project, with IDA funds (US$50 million) going to Guangxi, and IFAD funds (US$25
million) to Hubei. The Bank resisted the split initially, preferring to resolve the coordination
problems instead, but eventually agreed in late 1983, after appraisal, to the joint request of IFAD
and government. The IFAD project (IFAD Loan No. 153-CH) was then processed and super-
vised by the Bank as a separate project, but with the same staff and missions. (The Bank's official
files, however, were apparently not separated at this time, causing some confusion to readers. See
further below under Findings and Lessons Learned.)
10.   Throughout the project preparation there was concern on both the government and Bank
sides over the credit amount. To the Bank, China was expected to be an increasingly large
borrower, with amounts in the lending program of US$0.9-1 billion for FY84, US$1.4-1.6 billion
for FY85 and about US$2 billion for FY86. US$100 million was originally allocated in the
lending program for the project, but the loan officer noted with implicit concern in January 1983
that the two rural credit projects in the pipeline would require small amounts of IDA funds
compared with the average project size planned for the whole China lending program. Hence
there was pressure to keep up the amount of funds allocated to the project.
11.   The files record, however, that on the government's side there was a conflicting concern
that "US$100 million is too large for ABC to effectively handle in a first phase project." The
government was also concerned that US$200 million equivalent of counterpart funds would be
needed, given the proposed 1:2 financing ratio. In the course of discussions with government on
the size of the credit, Bank staff record on the files (7/83) advising senior staff of the Ministry of
Finance that a credit of less than US$50 million would not be worth the Bank's processing effort.
(This project was not the only one at this time experiencing upward pressure on borrowing
amounts, e.g., the Bank "reluctantly accepted the limitation of US$100 million set by [govern-
ment]" for the University Development II Project - file letter, February 1, 1984.)
12.   In the event the credit amount was negotiated downwards to US$50 million by the
Chinese authorities in mid-1983.jj To begin the process, however, files record that a senior
MOF official was advised that the Bank was "thinking of a $70 million IDA credit," because
IFAD's contribution was not certain and demand was there. This provoked a response from
1/    The prudent management by government of foreign borrowing, despite pressure from eager lenders, was to pay off handsomely
in due course, as compared, for example, with the predicaments of several countries in Latin America (see "How Did the Asian
Countries Avoid the Debt Crisis?", World Bank/PRE Working Paper, October 1991).



- 4 -
government staff querying the need for any on-lending funds for ABC!V This did not divert the
preparation process, however, but perhaps contributed to the comment a little later in the
Decision Memorandum in November 1983 that, "The major rationale for Bank Group involve-
ment is therefore to assist ABC in developing and implementing improved project appraisal
techniques. In addition, Bank Group involvement will enable ABC and the technical bureaus at a
provincial and local level to gain access to foreign experience and ideas in new or specialized
agricultural subsectors where such experience would be particularly useful."
13.    Another important issue during processing was the interest rate spread needed to give
ABC/ Guangxi sufficient income to cover its costs and risks. The Bank's contribution to this
important decision seems to have been a modest one, starting with the observation that ABC
would need 3 percent based on the Bank's experience in other countries. In the event the
decision was taken by ABC with the Bank concurring, apparently in the absence of any strong
independent view. Thus the appraisal mission suggested 1.9 percent, ABC/Guangxi proposed 1.7
percent and ABC/HQ came up with 2 percent, and 2 percent was agreed. Senior Bank manage-
ment queried the adequacy of 2 percent in view of ABC's processing costs for this new type of
operation, but it was agreed that ABC and the Bank would review lending rates periodically in
the light of relevant other factors. It had been noted earlier that ABC's administrative costs were
"low by international standards, and reflect generally low salaries" (Project Brief, 10/83).
14.   In an early insight but one which, based on file evidence, was not apparently to be given
much attention, the Initiating Memo of October 1981 asked: "Who bears the foreign exchange
risk and should subproject loans be made and repaid in currencies other than Renminbi [local
currencyl?" (underlining added). This was not raised as an issue again and no record was found
of any response to the possibility of ABC lending foreign currency to some subborrowers
(presumably those that could bear the risk safely). The Bank's regional office has explained that
at the time, the standard Bank practice was to make loans to the Ministry of Finance (MOF),
with onlending by MOF in RMB (local currency) to the implementing agency. This practice was
in line with the government's program for foreign exchange retention and was not negotiable at
that time. Consequently, at negotiations, according to the PCR (para. 4.3), it was agreed that the
Ministry of Finance would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives and Description
15.     As described in the SAR (para. 4.01), the major objectives of the project were to (a)
support a three-year lending program of the ABC which was part of a high priority government
development effort to increase agricultural and rural production and incomes through the
diversification and modernization of agricultural production and processing, and (b) assist ABC in
developing and implementing improved procedures and methodology for appraising agriculture
and rural development projects. Other objectives aimed at expanding rural employment and
making fuller use of the ample rural labor force, alleviating rural poverty, raising the value added
of agricultural production, improving production efficiency, and increasing the supply and quality
of agricultural produce, including processed foods, to consumers.
2j     The proposed credit funding was for development investment and not working capital subloans. In view of the scarcity of
working capital funds which eventuated, however, the justification for this query is doubtful, even though the scarcity was partly
associated with the unforeseen massive expansion in development investments associated with the credit (para. 36).



16.   The project had the following components:
(a)   subloans for investments in:
(i)   orchard (mainly citrus) and other tree crops;
(ii)   culture of freshwater and marine fisheries;
(iii)   livestock, comprising beef/draft cattle, poultry and pigs;
(iv)   agroprocessing; and
(b)   technical assistance for the institutional strengthening of ABC.
The project was therefore a fairly standard agricultural credit design, with identified subprojects
and institutional strengthening through technical assistance, but also with clear diversification and
modernization objectives. The modernization objective was a natural and obvious reaction to the
low level of technology in the industry following several decades of relative isolation from the
world economy. Total project costs were estimated to be US$142.4 million and credit funds were
to be committed over a three-year period.
17.   IDA funds were to be channeled through ABC which would onlend to collective units
(communes, production brigades and production teams), individual farmers, households and state-
owned enterprises. Although much of onlending was to be to collective units, the "production
responsibility system" through "household contracts" ensures that individual families benefit from
the investments in line with their own efforts according to production incentive formulae adopted
by their units. The PCR notes that IDA played an important role in ABC increasing its support
for individual households (even if indirectly through loans to communes and other collective
units) relative to state farms and other state enterprises.
18.   ABC was to onlend funds at its prevailing interest rate of 5.04 percent and determine
repayment period of up to 20 years on the basis of the cash flow projections of the subprojects.
Government and ABC agreed with IDA to ensure that the cost of project funds to ABC,
including ABC's counterpart contributions and a 2.3 percent interest rate for IDA funds to start
with, would provide ABC with the 2 percent spread needed to cover costs.
19.   A major objective of the project and the main rationale for Bank involvement, since
funding was relatively small for an institution of ABC's size, was the "modernization of agricultural
production and processing" (SAR, paras. 1.09 and 4.01). At the time the government was
particularly concerned to "upgrade technology" employed in agroindustries. One version of the
project brief had referred to agricultural development policy giving high priority to, inter alia,
"raising the efficiency of production through improved technology (including production inputs),"
although this phrase was not carried into the SAR. Thus, although present in Bank staff thinking
during preparation, technology aspects were not well defined in the SAR.
20.   Procurement for ABC's subborrowers of a wide range of machinery and equipment was
envisaged: for irrigation, livestock watering, and crop spraying, and hand tools, fishing gear, boats,
incubators, vehicles, and a range of office equipment. However, it was agreed that procurement
of inputs and equipment was to be by the local non-competitive procedures from existing
designated government marketing organizations, and from local producers. Hence, although
imported items were not excluded if the customary organizations had them available, no specific
arrangements were made under the project to obtain modern equipment from foreign suppliers.
Bulk procurement was considered impractical and project investment items were not considered



- 6 -
suitable for international competitive bidding. In support of this decision the SAR quotes user
preference for "locally manufactured over imported items." Customary arguments concerning
standardization, spare parts availability and user familiarity were also given to support local
procurement of locally manufactured items. It was believed that "agricultural inputs and other
investment items required by the project would be readily available" (SAR, para. 4.15) and that
there were "manufacturers producing machinery and equipment of acceptable quality and
performance" (Issues Paper, para. 5, see further below on this issue). This judgement proved to
be in error as reported in the PCR (Part I, para. 5.7) in connection with agroprocessing equip-
ment, and also according to several comments made in the field by users and ABC staff with
respect to tillage equipment and incubators.
Implementation Experience
21.   Introduction. The project was completed six months ahead of schedule and far exceeded
the scale of operations agreed at appraisal. All sub-components were greatly expanded, especially
planting of orange orchards, the largest single enterprise type, where the 28,000 ha planted were
three times the appraisal plan of 9,000 ha (further details of the greatly expanded scope of the
project are presented below under Results). This expansion resulted from devaluation of the
Yuan by 100 percent against the US dollar such that local funds generated by the IDA Credit
rose from the planned figure of Y 100 million to Y 193 million, and, with the agreed 2:1 ratio for
counterpart funding, Yuan funding more than doubled from Y 255 million to Y 585 million. This
unexpected turn of events is especially ironic, given the astute position of the Ministry of Finance
on the size of operation that ABC/Guangxi could handle efficiently when pressing the Bank to cut
the IDA Credit amount in half (paras 10 to 12 above). Even though ABC/Guangxi staff had
benefitted from training and a new appraisal manual (see further below), the Ministry of
Finance's judgement during preparation that a US$100 million loan (at the 1983 Yuan exchange
rate of 2.0/US$1) was too big for ABC/Guangxi to handle proved correct. It is clear now,
however, that in the process both the capability of ABC/Guangxi was stretched beyond safe limits
and the demands on local funds rose to levels which could not be supported (PCR paras 5.4 and
5.6). IDA staff seemed to suspect a problem quite quickly, since as early as the first supervision
mission in November 1984, when 43 percent of the total loan funds had been approved, IDA
asked that they be reviewed to insure appraisal in accordance with procedures and criteria set out
in the Appraisal Manual (para. 32). Devaluation shaped and influenced project events and
problems in various ways, the full consequences of which are yet to appear (see below, para. 38).
22.   As large areas of citrus were being financed, the potential marketing problem was
identified during project supervision by the Bank. By October 1985, ABC had agreed that lending
to orchards and tree crops would slow down. Appropriate measures were agreed between the
Bank and ABC, to concentrate on other enterprises, including financing post-harvest storage and
processing facilities. This resulted in the construction of 43 fruit stores at a cost of US$6.7
million equivalent, as well as 13 processing factories for fruits and vegetables. A second reaction
during supervision to this great expansion of the citrus area was the suggestion to ABC that a
random sample of 40 citrus subloans be surveyed to examine how this dominant enterprise was
performing. Unfortunately, however, this study was not as useful as intended (see further below).
23.   To keep interest rates low to farmers, ABC did not on-lend funds at its prevailing interest
rate as agreed with IDA and consequently the agreed 2 percent margin to cover ABC's project
costs was not achieved until 1989, over a year after the IDA credit was closed, when the rate was
raised. Apart from the obvious cost advantage to farmers of low interest rates, ABC staff also



-7-
noted that a principle was at stake: what was the point of taking funds from IDA at preferential
interest rates if the benefits were not passed on to farmers through comparable rate discounts?
24.   Project Size and Subloan Processing Problems. The effect of devaluation on implementa-
tion was to signal immediately to ABC and its project staff that the project was becoming much
larger than originally planned and, in particular, that the rate of subloan processing had to
increase greatly if the original implementation schedule was to be met. Inflation would take care
of only some of the increased funding available. ABC remained committed to the original
subloan processing schedule,3] and, as far as can be seen from the files, there was no suggestion
made or considered that the subloan processing period should be extended to spread the
workload. Instead, the main relevant issue was the suggestion to increase the IDA disbursement
share from 35 percent to 50 percent, which would have had the twofold effect of reducing both
the processing pressure and the generated demand for government counterpart funds. However,
no change was made on the grounds that the IDA-financing share should not be increased.
(Raising the reimbursement rate was considered again under the Second Rural Credit Project, but
too late to be worth making the change, although a 50 percent rate was adopted for the third
project.)
25.   To keep up with the required commitment rate to stay on the same schedule as before,
processing was sometimes skimped and, as the PCR states, "some marginal quality subprojects"
were thereby approved (PCR para. 5.4). According to ABC, skimping of subloan appraisals was
most evident for subloans made to individual families, because so many such loans were made.
(Hence, some ABC staff attribute part of the problem to the Bank's insistence on a large
proportion of the loans going to individual families, whereas their own ABC funds are "whole-
saled" through the RCC system to individual borrowers.) Moreover, and perhaps even more
importantly, follow-up by ABC staff to assist subborrowers was unavoidably limited, given the
expanded commitment workload and the widespread dispersion of subprojects throughout the
region. Thus, a major characteristic feature of supervised credit programs was neglected. In the
circumstance more than the usual amount of follow-up may have been desirable, given that
working capital shortages were a problem and both the investment plan and operating costs were
being affected by cost increases. Conversely, however, ABC/Guangxi's reaction to the increased
processing pressure seems to suggest that there was no great concern about staffing inadequacy,
since there was an increase of only 95 staff (12 percent) to the roll of 799 staff on the project in
1986.
26.   On the input side, another result of the expansion of commitments was a shortage of
good-quality planting material and of agricultural inputs, which was exacerbated by shortage of
working capital for the purchase of inputs by subborrowers (see below). This planting material
problem will show up for many years in terms of production levels in the many orchards financed.
27.   Counterpart Funding and Incremental Working Capital. Shortage of government funding
was a constraint throughout implementation (and remains a constraint on ABC's activities in
Guangxi), resulting especially in inadequate working capital for subprojects since. In part at least
(see below), this resulted from ABC/Guangxi's not having sufficient own funds available. The
[/    Apparently as a matter of policy, ABC and government wanted to commit IDA funds rapidly.



-8 -
amount of local funding 41 required increased, of course, because IDA funds were so much
larger in local currency than originally planned. Shortages of working capital (from both
subborrowers and ABC) especially hurt those many subprojects where several years passed after
investment before production began, including the large area of perennial orchard crops.
ABC/Guangxi funds for this purpose were constrained by, firstly, limited branch funds and,
secondly, by allocations from HQ being pre-determined by a sharing formula for all provinces
under the annual credit plan which could not be readily altered. Shortage of counterpart funding
and working capital could have had the beneficial effect of slowing subproject processing down,
but this did not apparently happen as the alternative of skimping on matching funds was
preferred.
28.    One of the Bank's contributions to the project's success was in the form of appraisal team
case studies and here ABC staff (para. 17(b) of the PCR) note a deficiency which contributed to
the lack of incremental working capital (IWC) for subborrowers. Thus in the early years of the
project, ABC relied on the case studies, which, ABC says in the PCR, did not show "specific
financing arrangements" for incremental working capital. The audit confirmed, on the contrary,
that small working capital loans were included in the SAR tables, but that the misjudgment was
over the amount of "own funds" which the subborrowers would be able to contribute. ABC staff
were in a position to realize, however, that a shortage of "own funds" implied that an increase was
needed in IWC financing.
29.   Procurement. As already indicated, the project design, despite the project objectives, did
not tackle adequately the "modernization through technology" issue. In particular, procurement
arrangements did not provide for direct imports. Consequently, when ABC, before project
effectiveness, asked whether bulk fertilizer supplies could be financed, the Bank rejected the
request on the grounds that bulk procurement from abroad was not a provision of the legal
documents. This would have given the impression that there was no possibility to use project
funds for imports, which would not have been so, especially if it was confirmed that domestic
items were inadequate as has now been confirmed (see PCR para. 5.7).
30.    Training, the Role of EDI and Technical Assistance. As noted in the SAR, implementa-
tion of the project began before the credit was approved or effective with respect to important
institutional and training activities. The Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI) played a
valuable role in organizing training courses in China on rural credit for 32 ABC staff, especially
on appraisal methodology. The training of these initial 32 ABC trainers was then the basis, with
further Bank staff assistance, for numerous training courses during project implementation for
both ABC/Guangxi staff and ABC staff from other provinces. By the end of the project EDI
courses had been attended by 120 ABC staff from around the country and ABC/Guangxi staff had
participated in the training of over 11,000 ABC staff from elsewhere. ABC also found Bank staff
assistance valuable in training of auditors and in setting up the project's evaluation and monitor-
ing system, with the help of foreign short-term consultants.
31.   Funds allocated for hiring foreign consultants for training assistance were not used
because ABC and government preferred to allocate IDA funds solely to investments. Also,
training received in EDI courses and Bank staff contributions during appraisal resolved many
4/     Both for counterpart funds to match (2:1) IDA's capital investment funds and for the associated working capital included in
subloans.



-9 -
technical issues. ABC relied in addition on advice received during Bank supervision missions
(although more frequent and better qualified missions were expected--see below). Other reasons
noted for not engaging foreign consultants were that conditions in GZAR are varied from place
to place and therefore the advice of local experts was likely to be more relevant, that there were
many specialist research institutes which could provide advice when needed and previous
experience suggested the quality of advice given by visiting experts was mixed. On this last point,
the practicality in local conditions of the advice of visiting experts was felt to be limited on
occasion.
32.    Bank staff also assisted ABC to draft a subproject appraisal manual and with arrangements
for study tours for ABC management staff to Bank-assisted rural credit programs in other
countries, beginning with Pakistan and Mexico. The "issuance" of the "Appraisal Manual for
Rural Credit Projects" was a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit. ABC reports that the
manual is now used widely on other ABC credit operations following the distribution of 150,000
copies throughout ABC branches. ABC/Guangxi has since expanded the appraisal manual with
further guidelines on World Bank processes and the results of the project, including examples of
all main documents used. Also ABC has produced an instructional volume of experiences under
all the donor-assisted rural credit projects, describing problems and their solutions.
33.    Supervision by the Bank. Throughout the project's five-year life, despite the large-scale
expansion and resulting implementation issues, performance ratings by the Bank's five supervision
missions were consistently a # 1--"Problem free or minor problems," with a status of # 1--
"Improving." However, implementation problems were a little more than "minor," as both the
PCR and the discussion above show.
34.    The fact that the working capital problem was not reported until the fifth Bank supervi-
sion mission in late 1988, at the end of the fourth project year, and then only as a result of
reviewing the study of 40 subprojects, adds fuel to ABC's contention that Bank supervision was
not adequate (over the main four years of implementation, supervision input exceeded the
standard coefficient of about 13 staff weeks at 15.5 only in the first year, but averaged only 6.5
staff weeks thereafter--page iv). Such a shortcoming in the credit packages should have been
picked up earlier by supervision staff, especially as, according to ABC, the problem was more
acute during the earlier years of subloan processing.
35.    Similarly the 40-farm citrus study was a good idea, but was poorly executed. Apparently
the concept the IDA staff had in mind was never fully understood by ABC staff, although this
communication problem could have been overcome if terms of reference for the study had been
prepared and discussed. Partly in consequence, therefore, the study output was meager and,
perhaps understandably, no substantive Bank response was traced on the files.5/
5/     The phenomenon of "disappearing studies" has been noted in OED before, whereby studies are proposed and even launched
with good intentions, and then disappear without trace, or, as in this case, make only a weak showing on the record at a later
date, compared with their apparent importance. A study of the utility of studies in Bank-assisted operations suggests itself.



- 10-
Results
36.    Some 1,240 subprojects were completed, with only an insignificant number of approved
subprojects being later dropped./ The project is making a substantial contribution to develop-
ment of agriculture in GZAR, especially for tree crops, livestock and agroprocessing. The project
mix by scale and cost was quite different, however, from that shown at appraisal, as follows (from
PCR, Table 5):
Cost (USS m.)
Percent              Area (ha x 1,000),
Increase               Heads or Units
SAR      Actual   (Decrease)    SAR           Actual    X Increase
Citrus a/               46.6      100.5          116        9.0         28.3          214
Other tree crops        12.6       11.7          (7)        9.6         42.1          339
Aquaculture             23.7       24.6            4        3.0 b/        4.9           63
Livestock               16.1        16.0           0        800 c/    6,630           729
Agroprocessing           8.6       25.8          200          12 d/       118         883
Total             127.4      178.4           40           -          -             -
a/ Includes small amounts of litchi and logan.
h/ Excludes marine fishery.
c/ Heads of cattle only. Poultry and pigs were financed, but no SAR target
was available.
d/ Units.
The main component increases made possible by the fall in the value of the Yuan were in
financing citrus, with investments more than doubling with an increase of US$54 million equiva-
lent, and agro-processing where the value of investments tripled, with an increase of US$17.2
million. In physical scale, citrus investments tripled to over 28,000 hectares, with other tree crops
quadrupling in area over the SAR figure. The citrus area financed is a substantial expansion of
28 percent for GZAR as a whole, and 5.6 percent of China's total citrus area of 506,900 hectares
in 1985 ("China - Citrus Development Study", FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, March
1987). Taken together, the tree crop planting program financed over 70,000 hectares, compared
with 18,600 hectares originally planned, an almost fourfold increase. This was a substantial
additional burden on ABC's processing and supervision resources. Livestock financing also
expanded greatly and the financing of 118 agro-industry units turned that component into a major
activity compared with only 12 enterprises proposed at appraisal. These units were mainly fruit
stores and feed mills (43 of each), with a mixture of starch factories, veterinary medicine factories,
and fruit and vegetable processors.
V      A sub-project now comprises a group of individuals borrowing for the same purpose in one location (although ABC noted that
IDA staff never clearly defined the term "subproject," lcading to some confusion).



- 11 -
37.   Other indicators of results given in the PCR are very impressive as follows:
Increase
SAR Tarpet        Actual        Percent
Households benefitted
At completion                          -             94,400            -
At full development                 90,000          198,000           120
Employment (equivalent full
time jobs)              75,000          384,000           412
38.    Financial rates of return are reported as very healthy at around 25 percent, similar to
appraisal. Economic rates of return range from 17 percent to 26 percent, with a "solid overall
average of 20 percent," compared with 27 percent at appraisal. The fall in the ERR is attributed
to increases in domestic prices and falls in the international prices of some of the main products.
Unfortunately, however, it is not possible to comment in detail on the FRRs and ERRs, since the
PCR shows only the results of the analysis, without presenting any supporting data.2/ The rates
of return would be influenced by the assumptions made on future citrus market strength, given
that this is the predominant project output. ABC staff and farmers were concerned about falling
orange prices just as new plantings were coming into production. Hence there may be some
uncertainty surrounding these rates of return (see further discussion below on this point).
39.   Repayments on subloans are ahead of schedule according to the PCR, although the
eventual performance of the project in this respect must be subject to some extent to how the
citrus market holds up, including ABC's ability to finance post-harvest processing and storage
facilities to ease the seasonal market surplus.
40.   Institutionally, ABC came out of the project greatly strengthened with respect to appraisal
methodology and trained staff, especially in GZAR but also throughout the bank through the
training of trainers and wide distribution and use of the appraisal manual. Staff tours to other
countries and contacts with IDA staff were clearly very valuable and were much appreciated by
ABC staff.
Findings and Lessons Learned
(a) Project Size
41.   Government sources were exactly right during project preparation on the subloan
processing capabilities of ABC/Guahgxi. It was unfortunate, therefore, that ABC and govern-
ment staff, with no apparent objection by IDA, stuck to a project processing schedule and
commitment period which was too short once the size of the project expanded, driven as it was by
devalued Yuan generated by the IDA Credit. It was most unfortunate that the option of
extending the project commitment period was apparently not raised by either ABC or IDA. Had
the commitment period been extended, presumably fewer marginal projects would have been
2/    It now is not unusual for PCRs to present little detail on ERRs and FRRs, a trend which has been evident since the revised
guidelines were introduced in mid-1989. The perceived increasingly perfunctory attention given to economic and financial
analysis of projects is worthy of management attention.



- 12 -
financed and supplies of good-quality planting material would have been less of a constraint. It is
possible also that the project could have invested more in planting material production to increase
supplies, if this had been planned and funded sufficiently ahead. The curtailed project implemen-
tation period was too short, of course, to allow time to invest in nursery expansion, and thereby
reduce significantly the planting material constraint.
42.    The eventual consequences of approving marginal loans and of establishing orchards with
inferior planting material have not emerged fully yet, but may show up in due course in terms of
lower production, repayment difficulties and lower income for producers.
(b) Technology Transfer-a Missed Opporfunity
43.    The audit concludes that the project was inadequately prepared, appraised and supervised
with respect to technology aspects, especialfy given the high priority government attached to
modernization of the sector through technology transfer and the project's intended support of this
priority. The Bank should have given higher priority to technology in the project design and
implementation arrangements, not just in the generalized objective of the project as stated in the
SAR. The Bank's regional office commented that the problem at the time was the complexity of
foreign exchange transactions. Individual farmers and collectives could not be given foreign
exchange to import items from Hong Kong. It was also impractical for ABC to consolidate
equipment requirements and go to bulk procurement. ABC was not intended or equipped to
become a farm equipment importer and distributor.
44.     The project's domestically oriented procurement arrangements were counter-productive
in so far as "modem" technology was not available in China and the Chinese supply system
traditionally favored domestic products.8/ However, the PCR reports (para. 5.7) that the
project did finance US$4 million of imported fertilizer and agrochemicals (3 percent of project
cost), but an insignificant amount of imported equipment, where this was available from supply
cooperatives. This supply through cooperatives apparently represented bulk imports of "selected"
items by an agency in the Ministry of Commerce, rather than a mechanism in which a local
cooperative would import equipment as required. This does indicate, however, that a mechanism
to import improved equipment 2/ should have been possible if sufficient weight had been given
by the Bank to its importance and potential impact. In consequence, as the PCR notes (para.
5.7), some of the locally made equipment financed was rudimentary and inefficient and the
project's technology transfer objective was "undermined." Hence, a valuable opportunity was
missed to introduce improved technology. ABC was especially disappointed to have missed the
chance under the project to improve tillage operations (through the introduction of imported
improved equipment). There was no intention by the Bank to bar financing of imported items
(the Bank's original raison d'Wtre), but by not providing a disbursement category and procurement
mechanism for direct funding of incremental imports, the Bank in effect acquiesced to, rather
than tackled, the traditional reliance on domestic supplies. The audit is not suggesting that ABC
8/     These restrictive procurement arrangements were not an aberration since the Project Agreement for the Second Rural Credit
Project, two years later, also provided that goods required for investment projects be procured according to local procedures
from local suppliers, mainly because of the "preference of the users for locally-manufactured over imported items' (SAR, para.
4.19).
2/     The required improved equipment items included sprayers, tillers, incubator, grain milb, feed mixers, engines and pumps, and
office equipment.



- 13 -
should have assumed the supply role, but that other arrangements could and should have been
made had this opportunity been recognized (see above re supply cooperatives).
45.   Technology aspects and the importance of related procurement arrangements appear to
have been inadequately understood by Bank staff. Moreover, ABC has commented (both to the
audit mission and in Part II of the PCR) that technology inputs of both ABC's technical staff and
Bank supervision missions were inadequate. (ABC perhaps expected more from Bank mission
sources by way of technical assistance than the Bank could or should provide, as opposed to ABC
drawing on unused funds in the Credit to obtain such technical advice.) It is difficult to see how
a modernization drive through technology transfer (which was said to be a government priority
supported by the project) can succeed if the technically qualified staff are not available, domestic
supplies are sometimes rudimentary and lack efficiency (PCR) and procurement arrangements do
not require competition in world markets.
46.   The audit also reviewed whether this missed opportunity could be traced back to a failure
in sector work, in so far as is reflected by coverage in the Bank's report "Rural Finance: A Sector
Study," which set the scene for the project. Since one of the three main traditional justifications
for public sector credit operations is transfer of technology (the others being to fill a resource gap
and achieve social policy objectives through targeting), it might be expected that the sector work
which identified the project would treat the technology issue at some length. This is especially so
given the period of relative technical isolation from which China had just emerged during the
1970s. However, the sector study (para. 28) makes only passing reference to the topic, although it
did note that ABC's contribution to rural development is through, inter alia, its role as a supplier
of information on improved technology. The report's failure to develop the technology transfer
aspect of ABC's role, and thereby in the project design (if continuity is assumed) becomes more
evident in the one other place found in the sector study where the issue is clearly posed in a form
which should have, but did not, lend itself to being addressed through the project's design,
especially procurement arrangements. Thus the smaller "Brigade and Commune Enterprises"
(BCE), the dominant borrowing entities, were said to lack access to, and information on,
improved technology and to "not understand developments in new technology and, even more
important, have not established channels to obtain that information" (para. 5.38, emphasis added).
It is precisely by shopping on world markets for investment items that the latest technology is
revealed and becomes available, not only in the item itself but also through the promotional work
and after-sales follow-up and services provided by a supplier anxious to develop a new market.
(c) Supervision by IDA
47.   There were five supervision missions (and a later PCR mission) between credit approval in
April, 1984 and credit closing in June, 1989, at an average interval of about a year. The first
mission was in November 1984, six months after Board approval, and the last in October 1988,
four months after the recorded Project Completion Date of June 30, 1988. Average staff weeks
charged to the project were 7.4 over five years, slightly above half the norm for projects except
for the first full project year, FY85, for which 15.5 staff weeks are recorded. Furthermore, the
true picture of supervision resources used on the project is probably affected by most missions
being multi-task, including supervising the IFAD project in Hubei and identifying and preparing
later rural credit or other projects. Tracking this point is difficult, however, since terms of
reference were found on file for only two of the five supervision missions.



- 14 -
48.    This background is relevant because the PCR, in both the Bank's and ABC's sections,
records that the borrower expected more from the Bank by way of staff assistance during
supervision. This was verified in comments to the audit mission. ABC in particular, while
complimentary about the Bank staff's contributions, regretted that supervision missions had not
been more frequent and more aptly staffed with technical expertise. The Bank's regional office
has commented that ABC was, on one hand, unwilling to pay for technical expertise from funds
provided for that purpose and, on the other hand, criticizing the Bank for not providing free
technical advice. Much is said by ABC staff, however, about valuable advice given by a visiting
mission member on controlling a potentially serious citrus disease.
49.    The audit believes that the Bank's contribution to the project's implementation was less
than the situation demanded, especially from a self-interested Bank perspective for a project in a
new member country and with a very large agency.LO/ ABC staff were expecting more imple-
mentation assistance than they got from the Bank (but their expectations may have been
unrealistic), although given that the project quickly began to run into problems caused by the
great increase in available funds through Yuan devaluation, the Bank's supervision input fell short
of requirements.I1/
(d) The Orange Market
50.    The SAR notes that GZAR produces 4 percent of China's citrus and that fruit production
("mostly citrus") increased by 44 percent from 1980 to 1982, to 316,000 tons. Under the project a
28 percent expansion of the GZAR citrus area was financed (indeed the PCR states that all citrus
expansion in GZAR during 1984-89 was financed by ABC under the project). Some 47 percent
of project funds went for citrus planting (US$84.5 million equivalent), or some three times the
area expected at appraisal. Thus IDA has been prominent in support of the rapid expansion of
the Guangxi citrus industry, but the audit learned that there is now concern that falling prices may
lead to marketing and profitability problems for those who invested in citrus under the project,
and these new plantings have several years to go before reaching full production levels.
51.    Subsequent to the project under audit the Bank Group has assisted a surprisingly large
number of projects where the main component was establishment of citrus orchards (for example,
Rural Credit Projects II and IV, and the Citrus Belt Project). Some of these projects have
supported varietal diversification, away from the ubiquitous mandarin orange, to spread the
harvest and consumption periods. Recently the Mid-Yangtze Agricultural Development Project
(approved in September, 1990) will establish or rehabilitate 11,000 ha of citrus. In total the Bank
Group has been and is financing a substantial area of citrus planting at a time when producers
and others have become increasingly concerned that the new plantings will prove less profitable
than expected with falling market prices. A report by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme in 1987 ("China -Citrus Development Study", 20 March 1987) estimated that farm
10/    The Bank's regional office has commented, "As for the supervision effort of the Bank, one needs to keep in mind that ABC was
the Bank's borrower, not the 1,240 farmers and collectives in Guangxi. If one looks at the number of contacts between the Bank
and ABC during the course of its relationship, the number is impressive--through implementation of this project and
preparation/appraisal of the subsequent project; the same group of ABC staff at headquarters were charged with implementing
sequentially all four projects."
]1/    Current supervision guidelines require that a supervision plan is agrecd with the borrower before Board approval, so that
surprises on both sides can be minimized. In aggregate, the resources level demands identified by such plans will signal to
management related programming and budgeting issues.



- 15 -
gate citrus prices would have to fall to about half 1986 levels before citrus production would yield
about a 12 percent financial rate of return (the assumed opportunity cost of capital). The report's
demand and supply projections suggested a price fall of about 40 percent from 1986 to 1995, or
from Yuan 0.88/kg. to Yuan 0.54/kg. In late 1990, however, the wholesale price had already
fallen to Yuan 0.60/kg., a fall over the previous year of almost half. This explains the concerns of
farmers and ABC staff over the future prosperity of citrus farms.
52.     Although demand for citrus has been expanding rapidly, clearly the spectacular response in
the citrus areas to the earlier high prices, and the Bank Group's support of citrus planting, have
been instrumental in lowering prices and making citrus more generally available. This is a great
success story, but the market situation needs to be kept under close review and the measures
adopted, inter alia, under the project to expand post-harvest facilities and to spread the peak
harvest period need to be continued.
(e) Filing
53.    There is a notable absence of incoming messages on file, either in the original Chinese or
translation, although other documents refer to such messages.L2/ It could be that the need for
rapid translation of incoming messages in Chinese contributed to filing lapses, but it seems strange
that neither the Chinese nor translated version of documents was filed in some notable cases.
Another example is that the original "project proposal", submitted by ABC and referred to in a
Bank Project Brief, was not found in the files.
54.     Until after field appraisal this project and a similar one for Hubei Province were being
processed as one project for joint financing by IDA and IFAD. After the larger project was split
into its two geographical parts for separate financing by each agency, IFAD asked the Bank to
continue processing the Hubei project and to supervise it on IFAD's behalf However, the files
were apparently not separated and much exclusively Hubei material is clearly routed to and filed
on what should by then have been the file for only Guangxi documents. The audit then queried
staff in Archives as to whether there was a separate set of files on the IFAD project, on which
some of the missing papers on the IDA project could be found. Archives advised that there was
no such IFAD project file, which, incidentally, raised the issue of the apparently sketchy and
incomplete papers filed on the IFAD project (based on cursory inspection). This mixing up of
the material on two quite separate projects went on, apparently, through the project lives of four
or five years and perhaps reflects how ad hoc the Bank's official filing system seems to be.
55.     Management attention to filing deficiencies, of which this is but one example, would be
worthwhile and possibly could make a small but significant contribution to improving operational
12/     It is not unusual to find occasionally, during file reviews for audit reports, that material is missing, misfiled by date or operation,
or that the same document is filed repeatedly, thus over-crowding the official files. References to file problems occur several
times in the preceding text. Sometimes even the Bank's key file of "Official Documents' (which contains the main project
documents and copies of legal agreements) is incomplete. By the standards of other bureaucracies, including commercial
enterprises, the absence in the Bank's system of any document logging system, folio numbers, and file routing record (by date
and action responsibility), leaves the system open to abuse and sufficiently unreliable not to be relied on by many staff. In
consequence there can be a proliferation of personal files and division files, not to mention personal and divisional chronological
files for further back-up. The existence of so many parallel records, together with a somewhat ad hoc official filing "system",
can only contribute to lack of clarity of the official record and an inability to trace accountability properly, on important issues,
to its rightful home. This is not supportive of the Bank's expressed desire for quality and accountability.



- 16 -
efficiency. (The audit learned, late in the day, that a "records management and archives improve-
ment program" is underway, and it is to be hoped that it can deal with the issues raised above.)
56.   The lessons learned from this project, which may be of wider relevance, are that:
-     Inflexible adherence to a project implementation schedule which is overtaken by
subsequent events (in this case devaluation) can lead to implementation and other
problems later. There is nothing especially sacrosanct about credit project commit-
ment periods, such that extending the period is a sensible solution when the on-
lending institution is overburdened with subloan processing.
-     Since facilitating technology transfer is one of the main justifications for publicly
funded credit programs, it is important that this aspect is properly prepared and
appraised, and that procurement arrangements, inter alia, are conducive to
obtaining new technology.
-     Given a large enough lending program, as this one was, and other parallel invest-
ments, rapid expansion of a single crop (mandarin oranges) can lead to output
price declines which may affect the profitability of project investments. It appears
that the Bank was taken somewhat by surprise by the fall in fresh orange prices
and may have facilitated over-rapid investment in this crop (from the producer's
point of view, if not the consumer's). Clearly long-term investments in a single
commodity need to be carefully analyzed and coordinated before over-expansion
occurs.
*     The priority to be given to supervision activities, in both quality and quality terms,
needs to be more carefully matched with the expectations and needs of borrowers
and operations, especially when borrowers are unfamiliar with the Bank or
circumstances change as in this case.



-                                                                                                   IBID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 7A83RA
KAZAKHSTAN                                                       '--.-                 (2
l,~~~~~ -  -  - ~     ~           ~                                                                               ----
IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4A
*  Pro~~~~~~~~~~.n~~~~~~. Cop..ol, ~~~~~~~~~                                                                             ~A BLC
o  Mjoo Tooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~O
-    -   Proin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. loondori.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       KOF
-.  -   In~~~~~.,nofio~~~~OI Boondon..                                                                                                                                A!~~~~~~
~~~~~  4   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~        ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         f4t
(                           _  _     _  _  _  _     _  _  _
i,..   ~.  -   -   -   -   .~.  r         PHIUPPINES~4?5
CHINA ~     ~        ~       ~       ~        HIAN                               \     ~     C14,             .lOIC                       -4 



