Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3763-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
OF SDR 47.2 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
April 5, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983                January 1984
Currency Unit   =   Yuan (Y)                                                          A
US$1.00          =   Y 1.98                         Y 2.04
Y 1.00           =   US$0.51                      US$ 0.49
The staff appraisal report is based on the exchange rate of US$1 = Y 2.00
prevailing at appraisal in September 1983.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 1
ACRONYMS
ABC  Agricultural Bank of China
DCA  Development Credit Agreement
NMP  Net Material Product
PA   Project Agreement
PBC  People's Bank of China
RCC  Rural Credit Cooperative



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:       Agricultural Bank of China (ABC)
Amount:            SDR 47.2 million ($50 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  From Government to ABC:
20 years including 6 years of grace, with interest at 2.3%
per annum.
From ABC to subborrowers:
Interest at prevailing rates, currently 5.04% per annum,
with maturities and grace periods depending on subproject
cash flows.
Project
Description:    The project would provide funds to subborrowers in Guangxi
Zhuang Autonomous Region to finance investments for the
development of citrus orchards and other tree crops,
aquaculture, livestock and agro-processing. Project funds
would be channelled through the Agricultural Bank of China
(ABC) to subborrowers comprising collective units (communes,
production brigades and production teams), individual
farmers and households, and state-owned enterprises. The
project would also include a technical assistance component
for the institutional strengthening of ABC, comprising
overseas fellowships, local training, expert services for
planiing an improved information and data management system,
and future project preparation (12 man-months), and
supporting equipment. A major objective of the project is
strengthening the project appraisal capability and
methodology of ABC.  At full development the value of the
aggregate incremental output from the project investments
would be about $180 million per annum. The project would
increase the production of higher value foods which are in
short supply and for which demand is growing rapidly.
Increased annual production would be about 430,000 tons of
fruits and 11,000 tons of aquatic products, mainly fish. In
addition, lending for the establishment or expansion of
animal breeding and fish nurseries would help satisfy the
growing demand from individual households for improved
stock, while increasing the supply of red meat, poultry and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
eggs.  The project would benefit directly some 90,000
families or 380,000 individuals. Satisfactory rates of
return are expected. No major risks are anticipated.
Subproject returns wouldi remain satisfactory even with
significant increase in costs and reductions in revenues.
The technological improvements envisaged are already widely
in use in China.
Estimated
Cost:                                                   Local   Foreign   Total
- $ million -
Orchard and other tree crops           56.3      2.9      59.2
Aquaculture                            21.8       1.9     23.7
Livestock                              13.3       2.8     16.1
Agro-processing                         5.2       3.4      8.6
Technical assistance                    0.3      0.7       1.0
Base Cost /a                        96.9      11.7    108.6
Physical contingency                    9.7       1.2     10.9
Price contingency                      20.5      2.4      22.9
Total /a                           127.1      15.3    142.4
Financing Plan:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
------ $ million ------
IDA                                    34.7     15.3      50.0
Government /b                          20.0       -       20.0
ABC                                    30.0        -      30.0
Sub-borrowers                          42.4       -       42.4
Total                              127.1      15.3    142.4
Estimated
Disbursements:    IDA FY             1985     1986    1987    1988    1989
… ------------ $ million ------------
Annual             4.0      10.0    16.0    17.0       3.0
Cumulative         4.0      14.0    30.0    47.0    50.0
Rate of Return:    27%
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 4849-CHA, dated March 30, 1984.
/a  Includes taxes estimated at $3 million.
7T7 Contribution arising from the operation of the internal settlement rate
system.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A RURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a rural credit
U,        project.  The credit, for SDR 47.2 million ($50 million equivalent), would be
on standard IDA terms. The proceeds of the credit would be relent to the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) with a 20 year term, including 6 years of
grace, at 2.3% per annum; the Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An introductory economic report, entitled "China: Socialist Economic
Development" (No. 3391-CHA), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 1, 1981. A country economic memorandum, entitled "China: , Recent
Economic Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. Another economic mission is now in
the field. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        Following a period of major institutional changes in the 1950s,
including land reform and the eventual establishment of communes in rural
areas and the extension of piublic ownership to cover almost all of the modern
sector, development efforts in China have been directed toward the major
objectives of industrialization and poverty reduction. Despite sharp
oscillations in policy and political upheavals like the Great Leap Forward
(1958-61) and the Cultural Revolution (1966-76), China has made substantial
progress toward achieving its objectives. Industrial growth since 1949 has
averaged more than 12% p.a. (compared with under 5% for agriculture); the
current share of industry in GDP (around 44%) is similar to the average for
middle-income developing countries; and the country now produces a far greater
variety of industrial goods than most other developing countries. Per capita
GNP (with adjustments for international comparability) grew at 2.5-3.0% p.a.
in 1957-81, significantly above the average for other low-income developing
countries. In terms of basic education, nutrition and health the Chinese
population is better off than its counterparts in other low-income developing
countries.
4.        However, China remains a very poor country, with a GNP per capita of
only $300 in 1982 and about 200 million people or 20% of the population with
unacceptably low incomes. The economy is also inefficient: past growth has
come mainly from massive mobilization of resources. For a country that faces
significant domestic resource constraints, inefficiency is a particularly
serious problem.



- 2 -
5.        To address these problems and ensure rapid growth and improvements
in living standards, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjust-
ment in 1979. Economic reform, aimed at improving the efficiency of the
economic system, involves: (a) improving the quality of central planning and
policy coordination; (b) devolving more decision-making authority to lower
level units; (c) establishing more direct links between incomes and the
perfcrmance of economic units and individuals; and (d) relying more on market
mechanisms and economic instruments and less on administrative directives to
influence economic activity. Structural adjustment, aimed at speeding
improvements in living standards, has involved readjusting the relative shares
of consumption and investment in national income, some major sectoral and
subsectoral readjustments, and greater emphasis on foreign trade. In 1981,
problems with inflation and large budgetary and current account deficits
resulted in short-term stabilization temporarily receiving the highest
priority, but by 1982 the Government was again pushing ahead rapidly with
adjustment and reform.
Economic Reform
6.        Reforms have now affected all sectors of the economy and institu-
tions from the central government down to rural households.  A major govern-
ment reorganization has strengthened the core p:Lanning and management agencies
(especially the State Planning Commission and the State Economic Commission)
and reduced the number of commissions, ministries and agencies under the State
Council from 98 to 52. Reorganization within ministries also has occurred,
while that of provincial and local governments is now under way. Economic
management has been decentralized: provincial and local authorities have been
given more autonomy in investment decision making and use of credit to finance
investment has increased; provincial and local governments have been granted
greater budgetary flexibility and more incentives to expand revenues and/or
economize on expenditures; and ministries, new local trading companies and
some enterprises now have authority to engage directly in foreign trade.
7.        Reforms have been most far-reaching in rural areas, where introduc-
tion of various types of the "production responsibility system" has given
small groups and households more autonomy in production and investment
decisions and linked incomes directly with output. By the end of 1982, 92% of
production teams in China had implemented such a system; 78% had implemented a
household responsibility system, whereby collective ownership of farm land and
major equipment is maintained but plots of land are contracted out to
individual households, which can retain whatever they produce beyond their
obligations to the state and to the collective (which account for about one
third of production). The number and types of rural markets have also
increased.
8.        Economic reform has not proceeded as far or as fast in urban areas,
but significant systemic changes have occurred. Reforms in the management of
state enterprises have aimed at improving incentives through profit retention
schemes and more flexible payment and employment practices. There have also
been experimental changes in the organization of state enterprises, a greater
variety of marketing channels, some price flexibility and adjustment of
relative prices, and greater autonomy for state enterprises in production



- 3 -
decisions. The scope for cooperative and individual economic activities has
also been enlarged.
9.        Many economic reforms, especially those in rural areas, have already
had a positive impact on efficiency, while others will take longer to have a
significant effect. There are also some emerging issues with economic reform
that the Government will need to address. In rural areas, there is a
potential conflict between enhanced economic incentives and equity in income
distribution, continued provision of basic services, and mobilization of
labor. In the state enterprise sector, many units are still inclined to
overinvest and overproduce, since substantial decentralization of decision
making and control over resources has not been accompanied by necessary
reforms in the pricing system. More use is being made of the market, but
information and transport systems are still weak, markets are fragmented and
competition is limited. It has also been difficult to develop effective
indirect fiscal and monetary policy instruments.
Adjustment, Stabilization and Growth
10.       During the past four years, the Government has followed a strategy
of setting relatively modest targets while implementing economic and admin-
istrative measures that contribute to adjustment and stabilization as well as
to economic growth. The various measures have included: major increases in
agricultural procurement prices; strict controls on many other prices;
rationing and other administrative measures to improve efficiency of resource
use; cutbacks in state capital construction investment; fiscal measures to
limit the budget deficit; increases in interest rates; moderation of currency
and credit expansion; and the introduction of an internal settlement rate for
foreign exchange transactions and other measures to encourage exports and
economize on imports.
11.       These economic and administrative measures, combined with systemic
changes, have played an important role in the impressive performance of the
Chinese economy in recent years. Gross agricultural and industrial output at
constant prices grew by 7.3% per year between 1978 and 1982 - agriculture by
7.5% and industry by 7.2% (heavy industry by 3.4% and light industry by
11.8%). Net material product (NMP) at constant prices grew by an estimated
6.3% p.a. during the same period. Net investment has stagnated in real terms,
while material consumption grew by over 9% p.a. between 1978 and 1982. The
share of investment in NMP was reduced from 36% in 1978 to 29% in 1982.
Domestic consumption of energy rose by less than 2% p.a. during 1978-82.
12.       Structural adjustment and rapid overall economic growth, combined
with a low population growth rate (1.3% p.a. between 1978 and 1982), have led
to rapid increases in per capita incomes.  In urban areas, real per capita
incomes increased by 4.8% p.a. between 1978 and 1982; in rural areas the real
increase in per capita incomes was about 12% p.a. While more prosperous areas
and households may have benefitted the most and income differentials at a
local level may have increased, many poor areas and households have also
enjoyed substantial income improvements.



- 4 -
13.       The high rate of investment in 1978 and the low returns to much of
this investment made a cutback in the investment rate a priority for the
adjustment program. But achieving such a, cutback has proved difficult.
Decentralization of investment decision making has permitted a rapid growth in
investment financed from retained earnings or local resources. As a result,
most of the cutbacks in investment have been in large centrally financed
projects (in 1981 even the priority sectors of energy and transportation were
affected), though some of these were revived ina 1982.
14.       Government policy measures have helpted restore domestic economic
stability by lowering the rate of inflation from 6% in 1980 to 2.4% in 1981
and 2% in 1982, and by reducing the budget deficit (adjusted to eliminate
financing items) from 7% of NMP in 1979 and 5% in 1980 to less than 2% in 1981
and 1982. The restoration of fiscal stability was achieved mainly by sharp
cuts in expenditures on investment. Subsidies (mainly on daily living
necessities) rose dramatically from about 7% of total expenditures in 1978 to
26% in 1982, when they were 9% of NI4P.
15.       China's external position has also changed greatly in recent years;
the current account deficit of $3.4 billion in 1980 was converted into a $5.6
billion surplus in 1982 and an estimated $4.6 billion surplus in 1983, an
improvement far greater than anticipated. The real growth of merchandise
exports has been very impressive, averaging over 15% p.a. during 1978-82,
mainly because of rapid growth in manufactured exports. The growth rate has
been declining steadily, however. Meanwhile the volume of imports declined in
both 1981 and 1982, due in part to the lagged effect of contract cancellations
and suspensions, but also to delays in equipment deliveries and to problems in
obtaining high technology goods. A substantia:L increase in imports is
expected in 1984 and 1985 as China expands its investment program and imports
more machinery and equipment.
16.       A major consequence of the Government's conservative balance of
payments strategy has been reduced foreign borrowing. In 1980 and 1981 the
Government cut back sharply on interbank borrowing and in 1982 took advantage
of the unexpectedly strong current account pos:ition to repay commercial bank
and other loans. In 1981 China's debt service ratio was 7.8%, and in 1982
10.0%, due in part to accelerated loan repayments. At the end of 1981 total
reserves (excluding gold) were $5 billion; by the end of 1982 they had
increased to over $11 billion (equivalent to about seven months of 1982
imports), and by the end of 1983 they were nearly $15 billion.
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       During the remainder of the 1980s, the Government's efforts to
improve living standards should be helped considerably by continuation of a
relatively low population growth rate; by opportunities to make greater and
more efficient use of foreign technology and capital; and by the potential for
improving efficiency through economic reform. Rapid and equitable economic
development is constrained by a number of factors, however. There are serious
shortages of skilled manpower (current enrollment in universities and tech-
nical and vocational school.s is one quarter of the average rate for other
developing countrie,). With limaited possibilities for expanding the



cultivated area and with cropping intensities and yields already quite high,
the growth rate for agriculture is unlikely to average more than 3-4% p.a.
during the 1980s. Energy availability will continue to constrain industrial
growth, and there are capacity constraints in the transport and commercial
sectors. Large investments will be required in energy and transport at a time
when competing demands from other sectors, especially housing, are very great,
domestic revenues have not been growing rapidly, and decentralization has
weakened government control over investment.
18.       In recognition of these difficulties, the Government's Sixth Five-
Year Plan (published in December 1982 but covering the period January 1981
through December 1985) emphasizes continuation of the program of "adjustment,
reform, consolidation and improvement of the national economy." The plan
period is essentially viewed as an interim period during which the foundation
will be laid for more rapid econormic development under subsequent plans.
Modest targets are set for production and income growth (4% p.a. for gross
agricultural and industrial output and for NMP), consumption is expected to
grow faster than investment, prices will be kept basically stable, the budget
deficit will be kept low, and a significant expansion in foreign trade is
forecast, with imports growing more rapidly than exports. Priority will be
given to measures improving efficiency rather than maximization of output, but
the Government expects most production targets to be surpassed, as they have
been in the first two years of the Plan.
19.       Reform implementation will continue during the next few years.
Rural reforms will be broadened and strengthened, with the production
responsibility system extended to new spheres of activity, new types of
organization (including joint ventures between rural and urban units)
encouraged, and the administrative functions of communes separated from their
economic functions. In state-owned industry, taxation will fully replace
profit remittance as the primary means of raising government revenue, indus-
trial administration will be streamlined, and more inefficient enterprises
will be closed down. The commercial system will be reformed and cooperative
and individual commerce, par-ticularly in rural areas, will be promoted. In
investment planning, the Government is striving for more effective imple-
mentation of existing administrative regulations, but improving the structure
and efficiency of investment will be a long and difficult process, dependent
very much on progress on other aspects of reform. Measures to introduce
formal economic analysis (includinIg use of shadow prices) into investment
decisions and to make producing units more economically and financially
responsible for their decisions through appropriate pricing and incentive
schemes are especially important. Price reform itself is recognized as being
crucial, but in view of the complexities and magnitude of the changes
required, the Government has decided that it cannot implement comprehensive
price reform until after 1985. However, appropriate upward or downward
adjustments in some of the most distorted prices are being made, and the
prices of many minor commodities are being allowed to fluctuate according to
market conditions.
20.       During the remainder of the 1980s, China's development and moderni-
zation programs are expected to result in rapid growth of imports of capital
and intermediate goods. Foreign capital requirements for energy development



- 6 -
will be particularly heavy. By the late 1980s, some imports of oil are also
likely to be necessary before new domestic energy production capacity is
established. China's temporary current account surpluses thus are expected to
change to moderate deficits over the next several years. But the overall rate
of import expansion, the size of the current account deficit, and the
magnitude of foreign borrowing requirements are very sensitive to assumptions
about economic trends and the effectiveness of government programs. For
example, an acceleration of economic growth without significant improvements
in efficiency, especially energy efficiency, could result in large current
account deficits by the end of the 1980s. In fact, a relatively high rate of
economic growth of 6-7% p.a. during the -rest of the 1980s (which is the growth
rate used in the projections in Annex 1) will probably be feasible only if
major improvements in energy efficiency continue.
21.       China has a strong claim to concessionary lending because it is
stLlL one of the poorer countries :in the world. However, access to concess-
ionary capital to finance its development and modernization program is
limaited: apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of concessionary
capiLal is likely to come only froma Japan and a few other bilateral donors and
will probably average only $500-600) mill:Lon a year during the 1980s.
22.       For China, as for many other developing countries, the 1980s will be
a difficult decade. But looking further ahead, China's economic prospects
appear favorable. By 1990, most new entrants into the labor force will have
received some secondary education, and the skilled manpower deficit will have
been reduced. Further progress will have been made in tapping China's large
energy potential and in using it more efficiently. Continuation of recent
manufactured export trends should generat:e additional foreign exchange,
enabling the Government to use foreign capital more freely and be less
concerned about its terms. If the country's immense wealth of human talent,
effort and discipline can be combined with policies that increase the
efficiency of resource use, China will be able to achieve continuing
subtantial increases in the living standards of its people. Whether this
potential can be realized, however, will depend crucially on the success of
the Government's program of reform and adejustment in the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP CIPERATIONS IN CHINA
23.       In view of the particular circumstances of China and the economic
transition now underway, the Bank's relationship with China should have
several broad objectives. Firstly, the Bank should offer China its
considerable development experience and institutional knowledge. Moreover,
working with the Bank represents one means for China to re-establish its
position in the world community after its lengthy isolation. Secondly, the
Bank should assist China in removing the major constraints on development:
shortages of energy, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and modern
technology. Even more important, the Bank should help the authorities to use
these and other inputs more efficiently, by improving project analysis and
investment control, as we:Ll as overall economic management and planning.



- 7 -
Finally, the Bank should help the Government identify ways of reducing China's
remaining poverty. Since the Government has been successful in meeting the
basic needs of most of its people, these efforts should concentrate on the
poorest rural areas.
24.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May
1980, 13 projects involving lending of about $1,434 million have been
approved. Three have been in education (University Development, Agricultural
Education and Research and Polytechnic/TV University), three in energy (Daqing
Oilfield Gaotaizi Reservoir Development, Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum and Lubuge
Hydroelectric), three in agriculture (North China Plain, Heilongjiang Land
Reclamation and Rubber Development), two in transport (Three Ports and
Railway), one in industry (Industrial Credit), and one in technical
cooperation (Technical Cooperation Credit). Annex II contains a summary
statement on these loans and credits as of March 31, 1984.
Economic and Sector Work
25.       The Bank's economic and sector work was initially designed to
provide a basis of knowledge on the development and functioning of the Chinese
economy.  This work resulted jin completion of a nine-volume introductory
economic report in June 1981. A follow-up country economic memorandum (Report
No. 4072-CHA) analyzing developments over the next two years was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. In addition, the Bank has
undertaken studies in several areas important for our understanding of the
Chinese system, including rural finance and urban planning and management in
Shanghai. The economic mission now visiting China will prepare a report on
long-term development issues and options.
26.       Other economic work is designed to assist China in its present
effort to promote efficient use of investment resources, and more generally to
introduce new methods of economic management and planning.  In the context of
the Industrial Credit Project, an appraisal manual was developed with Bank
assistance by the new financial intermediary, the China Investment Bank. The
Bank is now helping the Agricultural Bank of China to develop a similar manual
in connection with the proposed project. A program of economic research on
China's development problems, aimel at the application of advanced analytical
techniques, is under way in collaboration with Chinese economic research
institutions in the areas of enterprise incentives and analysis of structural
change.
27.       Sector studies will help, inter alia, to identify and prepare future
investments. Some have been included in Bank Group-financed projects, e.g.,
agricultural development in Shandong Province under the North China Plain
Project, containerization under the Three Ports Project, and agricultural
manpower and research under the Agricultural Education and Research Project.
A health sector review looked at rural health care delivery systems and health
manpower development. The rural finance study provided the background for the
proposed project.



-8-
Near-Term Lending
28.       Work is proceeding on a range of projects, with emphasis on improved
management and efficiency as well as on technical assistance and training.
Several are in the key sectors of energy and transportation. In energy, the
Bank's efforts will help to increase the supply of fuel and power. Future
petroleum projects will, like the first two, emphasize the introduction of
modern technology, staff training and studies.  Other operations are likely to
continue support for electric power and involve development and management of
large underground coal mines in Shanxi province. In transportation, work is
proceeding on a second railway project and a second ports project to provide
additional capacity.
29.       In view of China's shortages of manpower with higher or technical
education, the Bank will continue its support of education through a second
agricultural education project and another university development project.
Support for agriculture would continue through the proposed project to provide
rural credit with emphasis on improved project appraisal and institution-
building, and through projects to provide further assistance in agricultural
research, and to assist the Government in forestry and seeds. In industry,
further loans will be made to the China Investment Bank, and there will be
projects for technical renovation and modernization in industries such as
fertilizers and machine tools. In health, a project will help improve rural
health care services and medical education. Bank assistance is also planned
for a rural water supply project.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE AGRICULTURAL
BANK OF CHINA
30.       Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fisheries, provides
basic sustenance to China's population of about one billion people. This
sector accounts for some 35% of the country's GDP and is the main source of
livelihood for the rural population of 800 million. Only about 100 million ha
of China's land area of 960 million are arable. Farming systems are inten-
sive, with large inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizer and water.
Nearly half of the arable land is irrigated. Foodgrains occupy 80% of the
cropland and account for 65% of total agricultural output. This intensive
system of food production allows China to meet the basic food requirements of
its population (about 22% of the world's total) from less than 8% of the
world's arable land. Agricultural production is carried out in people's com-
munes, state farms and privately managed pLots which account for about 87, 5
and 8%, respectively of the country's arab:Le land and 80, 4 and 16% respec-
tively of the gross value of agricultural production.
31.       Agricultural development has been accorded high priority since the
founding of the People's Republic. Investment in agriculture has averaged
about 20% of total national investment and recent economic reforms have been
designed to increase the efficiency of investment in the sector. Despite
declining per capita availability of arable. land, efforts to develop China's
agriculture have been broadly successful. Food production has expanded more



- 9 -
rapidly than population growth and a food security system has been put into
place which provides adequate basic nutrients to most of China's population.
The agricultural sector grew by about 3.2% p.a. in the 1955-79 period and by
more than 5% on average since 1979. There has also been substantial diversi-
fication in recent years with the rapid expansion of cash crops such as
oilseeds, cotton and sugar, and livestock. Reflecting population and income
growth and diversion of larger quantities of grain to livestock feeding, net
grain imports have risen in recent years to about 15 million tons p.a., or
less than 5% of total consumption. Exports of raw and processed agricultural
products contribute about 27% of all, foreign exchange earnings.
32.       The Government controls the pricing and marketing of most agricul-
tural products and inputs. It fixes annual production quotas for the major
crops such as grains, oilseeds and industrial crops (cotton, sugar and rubber)
and purchases them at predetermined prices. Production in excess of the
quotas can be sold to the Government at negotiated prices or on the free
market. Minor crops, such as vegetables, and other products grown in house-
hold plots, are sold in rural markets at prices regulated by the provinces or
counties. Economic reforms since 1976 (para. 7) have decentralized production
decisions, substantially increased prices paid for most agricultural products,
increased the maximum area allowed in household plots, expanded the role of
rural markets and emphasized the role of loan finance through the Agricultural
Bank of China rather than grant finance of rural development projects. Insti-
tutional reforms in 1982 combined several government agencies involved in
agricultural product marketing and input distribution to improve the effi-
ciency of these activities.
33.       A major task of China's agricultural sector will be to meet the food
and agricultural raw material requirements occasioned by population growth and
gains in per capita income. The land constraint will require steady increases
in yields from already cropped areas and the growing problem of surplus rural
labor will make job creation an increasingly important policy objective of the
Government. To meet these challenges the Government is implementing new
policies aimed at giving rural workers more production incentives. Area
quotas for particular crops have been relaxed, although minimum grain market-
ing quotas are still maintained. Production incentives are encouraging crop
specialization in economically suited areas and the production of industrial
crops is being fostered by assuring supplies of food grains to farm workers in
those areas. Incentives to workers on both communes and state farms are being
improved to link rewards more closely with work effort. In addition it will
be necessary to use the few remaining opportunities to expand the cultivated
area, increase cropping intensity and yields on existing cultivated areas
through relatively quick yielding land and water resource projects, increase
investment efficiency,and introduce high yielding crop varieties and practices
through research and education.
Agricultural Bank of China
34.       As part of the Government's program of economic reform major changes
have taken place in the structure of the banking system in recent years.
Attention is also being paid to the role of the banks in mobilizing savings
and improving investment efficiency as well as to their more traditional roles



- 1C) -
of channelling government bu getary funds and helping control state and
collective enterprises. A separate agricultural bank was in existence for
short periods during the 1950s and 1960s but for most of the time the basic
functions of a rural credit system were carried out by the large network of
rural credit cooperatives (RCCs), while the more formal rural banking act-
ivities were the responsibility of the Agricultural Finance Department of the
People's Bank of China (PBC). PBC itself acted as an administrative organ for
government financial management, as a central bank and as a commercial bank.
In February 1979, however, the State Council restored the Agricultural Bank of               *
China and urged that it henceforth become the dominant institution in the
mobilization of rural savings and the financing of agriculture and rural
development. This newly-established ABC consists essentially of the staff,
offices and other physical facilities of what had been the PBC's Agricultural
Firnance Department. In September 1983 the State Council changed the functions
of PBC to being exclusively those of a central bank with powers to control the
activities of specialized banks such as the ABC.
35.       ABC's general objective is to contribute to the effective execution
of Gcvernment economic policy throughout the rural areas of China.  Its
acti'-ities extend beyond agricultural lending to include the financing of
rural commercial and industrial activities which support agriculture and rural
development. In addition to its main tasks of mobilizing rural financial
resources, extending credit, and channeling public funds to rural areas, ABC
supplies a wide range of banking services to the rural areas, and provides
leadership to the RCCs and financial guidance to communes, brigades and teams.
36.       At the end of 1982, in addition to its head office in Beijing, the
ABC had 27 branch offices in the provincial capitals, municipalities and auto-
nomous regions, 288 central sub-branches at the prefecture level, 86 business
off:ices at major urban centers, 2,211 sub--branches at county level, 24,803
offices ar commune level and 403 offices on state farms.  The ABC is  there-
fore represented at all administrative levels with more than 27,800 offices,
and has a total staff of some 285,000. ABC's work is further complemented by
some 59,000 rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) with some 250,000 full or part-
time sLaff organized at the commune and brigade levels. Although they are
separate entities, the RCCs in practice function as the smallest operating
units of the ABC (para. 41). Thus, the wide network of ABC's offices and the
RCCs means that virtually all of China's 53,000 communes and 2,000 state farms
have at least one ABC office or RCC in their area. This extensive national
coverage is a major strength in ABC's total operations and reflects ABC's role
as banker to the rural community as well as its responsibility as the finan-
cial agent of the central and local governments for the rural areas of
China. Most ABC and RCC staff at the local level have had many years of
experience in rural finance. Local office managers and department heads are
usually middle school graduates. Only a small proportion of ABC staff (less
than 5%) are university graduates.
37.      IAC provides short-term loans of less than one year (about 80% of
the tot2al portfolio) and medium and longer--term loans (usually for up to 5
years) for the following purposes:



- 11 -
(a) Commercial loans which are essentially short-term to meet the
working capital requirements of state-owned enterprises engaged in
activities in support of agriculture and rural development. The
major loan recipients are the Federation of Supply and Marketing
Cooperatives and companies supplying agricultural machinery and
seed.
(b) Loans to communes, production brigades and teams and individual
Al                 households.  These loans are for both agriculture and commune and
brigade enterprises (CBEs) and include short-term funds for produc-
tion expenses and working capital and longer-term loans for develop-
It                 ment of agricultural enterprises such as orchards, livestock,
fisheries and agroprocessing.
(c)  Loans for crop advances.
(d) Loans to the rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) to meet short-term
needs.
(e) Loans to state-owned agricultural enterprises such as state farms,
fisheries units, tractor stations, and irrigation and drainage
pumping stations for investment and working capital.
38.       ABC's3jotal loans outstanding at the end of 1982 amounted to
Y 61.8 billion - (about US$30.9 billion), of which loans to commercial
organizations accounted for 65%, loans to communes, brigades and teams 27%,
loans to state-owned enterprises 4%, loans to RCCs 2%, loans to individual
households 1% and loans for crop advances 1%. ABC places considerable
emphasis on full and timely repayment of its loans, and estimates that bad
debts currently are less than 1% of loans outstanding. In addition to lending
its own funds, ABC acts as an agent for the People's Bank in a number of
fields of which the most important have been   ans to the commercial depart-
ments of the Ministries of Food and Commerce -  for the purchase of agricul-
tural commodities from producing units. These amounts, which are generally
on-lent by ABC on a commission basis, are substantial (Y 14.8 billion at the
end of 1982). Sources of financing ABC's loans comprised mainly a capital
grant of Y 22.0 billion from the central government and deposits, the major
ones being those of the RCCs (Y 30.3 billion), individuals (Y 5.4 billion),
state-owned agricultural enterprises (Y 5.1 billion), rural commercial
enterprises (Y 4.8 billion) and local governments (Y 3.6 billion). The
deposits consist of demand deposits and fixed-term deposits with maturities
ranging from six months to eiLght years.
39.       ABC reported a proL-it of Y 1,153 million in 1982.  Revenues were
derived mainly from interest receLved on loans (Y 2,791 million), and agency
fees, interest earned on deposits at higher levels and other receipts
(Y 1,892 million). A small government grant used to be provided to compensate
1/   This does not include loans 'by the RCCs.
2/   Now combined into one ministry.



- 12 -
ABC for the negative spread between some lending and deposit rates but with
the increase in lending rates in 1982, this grant has been abolished.
Administrative costs of less than 2% of total resources employed are low by
international standards, and reflect generally low salaries.
40.       Recent economic reforms, including banking system reforms, have
increased the potential role of interest rates in the Chinese economy. Deposit
rates were raised in early 1983, while lending rates were increased signif-
icantly at the beginning of 1982 and again at the beginning of 1984.  The
present rate on short-term loans, mainly for agricultural production expenses
and working capital, is 7.2% p.a. Longer-term development loans, mainly for
agricultural equipment and machinery, will be provided at a rate of 5.04% p.a.
under the proposed project. These rates are positive in real terms given the
current inflation rate of 2% p.a. and are expected to remain so. A small
element in the loan portfolio consists of relief loans at zero interest.
Interest rates on deposits range from 1.8% for demand deposits of institutions
to 9.0% p.a. for an eight year individual term deposit.
41.       The RCCs, while collectively-owned financial units, serve as the
basic level units of the ABC. They play a major role in the provision of
credit and mobilization of savings at the commune and lower level. Lending by
the RCCs is generally focused on short-ter-m loans to the collectives
(communes, brigades and teams) and :individual farmers, whereas the larger and
longer-term loans are usually provided by the ABC. The ABC supervises the
management and operations of the RCCs, including carrying out monthly
inspection of the accounts, training of staff and advice on selection of
managers.
42.       RCC sources of funds include deposits of individuals, deposits of
the collectives, and loans from the ABC. Uses of funds include loans to
individual households and to collectives, and deposits in ABC. In general,
RCCs are net suppliers of funds to ABC (para. 38). RCC lending rates are the
same as ABCs for similar types of projects and similar borrowers. The RCC
loan portfolio more than doubled from Y 4,754 million at the end of 1979 to
Y 12,115 million at the end of 1982, reflecting largely the sharp increases in
lending to individuals and the collectives.
43.       In recent years ABC has been attempting to improve the quality of
its project appraisal work. Particular emphasis has been placed on ensuring
that projects conform to the state plan and overall government policy, that
the necessary supplies and materials are available and that there are markets
for the project output. However, project proposals are still not reviewed in
much detail; there is little examination of issueBs of scale, technology,
location and timing of proposed projects; and no formal financial or economic
analysis using discounting techniques is carried out, although pay-back
periods are occasionally calculated and used as supplementary criteria for
investment decisions. Subprojects under the proposed project will be subject
to much more detailed technical, financial and economic analysis using cri-
teria and procedures set down in a project appraisal manual. Based on the
experience gained with appraisal of these subprojects ABC expects to use such
techniques much more widely in its project appraisal work.



- 13 -
44.       Sound project appraisal by ABC has become more important as the
autonomy granted to ABC has increased. Large projects requiring funds from
ABC and especially those in industry and commerce still require approval by
local planning committees and relevant line agencies as well as by ABC. But
in the case of smaller projects and almost all agricultural projects the
planning committee decides only on the total amount of loans to be made
(taking into account available materials and supplies and other sources of
finance). ABC then approves the alLocation of those resources among different
types of projects and different areas and communes. Procedures for loan
approval by the ABC have been established by ABC Beijing and are uniform
throughout the country.
45.       ABC is placing increased emphasis on project supervision and
evaluation. ABC enters into a formal contractual arrangement with the
borrowing unit. The contract stipulates loan amounts and disbursement
schedules, specifies the type, quality, quantity and delivery times for the
equipment and indicates the repayment schedule for the borrower. The loan
contract also provides for remedies in the event of default, such as
suspension, acceleration and penalty interest. ABC uses these contracts as
the basis for project supervision. On completion of a project ABC compares
the actual use of funds with stated intent and production achievements are
measured against targets. Efforts are also made to assess the lending
experience gained as a guide to future loan operations.
46.       In most provinces ABC has an adequate number of accounting and
statistical staff at all levels. Few of these are experienced in compre-
hensive financial analysis, but they prepare timely, consistent and detailed
records. ABC requires the financial accounts to be balanced daily at each
office. Summary details are reported by commune-level offices every two weeks
by telephone to the county office and commune-level accountants come to the
county once per month to reconcile accounts. County offices report monthly to
provincial offices which in turn send detailed accounts to headquarters every
six months. Statistics on loan operations, which vary from province to pro-
vince but which always compare actual operations with loan targets in the
credit plan, are sent forward to provincial levels on a similar schedule.
These statistics are quite detailed with reference to types of investments
financed, geographic location of subprojects, expected incremental production,
etc.
47.       The accounts of ABC headquarters are audited by the Ministry of
Finance, although the auditing appears to be only a fairly cursory check.
Recent moves to restore auditing in China, especially the establishment in
September 1983 of the State Audit Agency (SAA), directly accountable to the
State Council, and emphasis on financial accountability are expected to lead
in the future to a satisfactory external auditing of ABC's accounts and
improvement of its internal auditing. The SAA has indicated that it is
expected to audit all Bank-financed projects, but that its capability of
carrying this out can only be built up gradually and over an extended period
because of its lack of experienced auditing staff. In this connection, the
Bank has recently conducted a seminar on auditing for the SAA staff and is
planning to further assist the SAA in the training of suitably qualified
auditing staff.



- 14 -
Bank Group Assistance to Agriculture
48.        The objectives of Bank Group lending for Chinese agriculture are
similar to the overall objectives of Bank operations in China, namely to: (a)
assist China in expanding and diversifying agricultural production to keep
pace with the rapidly growing demand for food and other farm produce resulting
from population growth and increases in per capita incomes; (b) finance inputs
which will help remove development constraints; (c) help improve economic
efficiency through better planning and improved project analysis; and (d)
reduce poverty by raising rural earning power in the poorer regions of the
count:ry.  These objectives are being pursued through both sector work and
project lending.
49.        Sector work has been carried out both in support of project lending
and generally to assist the Government in its agricultural development
efforts. A survey of the sector undertaken as part of the 1980 economic
repor.- covered natural resources, policies, institutions, output, productivity
and future prospects.  This was followed by a study of the rural finance
systerIa  an overview of agricultural pricing, and a study of trends in food and
nut rient availability.  A number of studies undertaken as contributions to the
Banlk'r; 1984 economic report examine long-t:erm development prospects in the
sector. Tney cover such topics as food supply and demand, land and water
develocpment potential, livestock prospects, fertilizer requirements, and the
outlook for yield improvement in major craps. 'Future sector work will be
defined in light of the findings of the economic mission and could include
subjeC.ts such as further work on the implications of the production
respornsibility system including mechanisms to ensure the continued provision
of rural infrastructure,
50.        The first Bank Group operation in the agricultural sector, the North
China Plainr Agriculture Project (Credit 1261-CHA, June 23, 1982 for $60 mil-
lion)3 will provide irrigation and drainage for 200,000 ha covering parts of
nine counties in three provinces. Work on this project, the first large-scale
attack on soil salinity and waterlogging in China, is proceeding well. A
second project, the Agricultural Education and Research Project (Credit 1297-
CHA, November 16, 1982 for $75.4 million) will support the Government's
program to strengthen higher education and research in the agricultural sector
by providing technical assistance and equipment to selected agricultural
colleges and research institutes. The project includes studies of
agricultural manpower and the agricultural research system.  Implementation is
proceeding well.  The Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project (Loan/Credit 2261-
/1347-C'hA, May 20, 1983 for a total of $80.3 million) will develop 200,000 ha
on srate fanns in Northeast China by constructing surface drains and access
roads and providing various agricultural machinery and other support services
to increase marketable surpluses of wheat, maize and soybeans.  Implementation
is proceeding well. The Rubber Development Project (Credit 1417-CHA and
Special Fund Credit SF-5-CHA, January 5, 1984 for a total of $100 million),
will assist in new planting and replanting of 40,000 ha of rubber in Guangdong
Province.  Procurement of equipment i's expected to begin shortly.
51.        Projects are being selectecl which emphasize increased efficiency of
resource use to increase production and which will have significant



- 15 -
demonstration and catalytic effects. Some will directly support production
while others help strengthen support services. Production is expected to be
supported in good part through a series of rural credit projects with the
Agricultural Bank of China, strengthening it and improving its project
appraisal.  These projects and possible area development projects will permit
the Bank Group to assist poorer provinces of China. There may also be some
repeater projects which are crop-oriented or for land reclamation where
opportunities exist. Forestry lending is also being prepared. In view of
equity issues, less emphasis is likely than hitherto on lending for state farm
projects. The other major emphasis in agricultural lending will be on support
services/inputs: agricultural education, agricultural research, seeds, and
possibly extension services.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
52.       The possibility of Bank Group assistance for rural credit projects
which would improve the efficiency of rural investment through better project
appraisal has been under discussion with the Government since the first
economic mission.  As a prelude, a rural finance study was prepared which
provided background information on the rural financial system and the opera-
tions of ABC. Given that its staff have generally not been trained in project
appraisal methodology, and to facilitate project preparation and implemen-
tation, ABC decided it would be prudent to limit the ge9graphical scope of a
first project to the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. -   The leadership in
Guangxi has expressed strong support for the project and the proposed sub-
projects are to be included in the provincial development plan. This would
ensure the adequate and timely provision of local funds and other inputs
required for the project.
53.       The project was appraised in September 1983.  A Staff Appraisal
Report entitled "Rural Credit Project" (No. 4849-CHA, dated March 30, 1984) is
being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington March 12-16, 1984 with a
Chinese delegation led by Ms. Zhao Bingru, Deputy Director of the Ministry of
Finance.
3/   ABC with assistance from IDA and IFAD staff and consultants originally
prepared a project covering the two provinces of Guangxi and Hubei for
joint financing by IDA and IFAD, but the Government and ABC subsequently
decided on separate projects. Guangxi was selected for IDA financing be-
cause it provided an opportunity for a direct contribution towards IDA's
objective of assisting in poverty reduction, as well as in the light of
the relative investment needs in the two provinces and the sums which IDA
and IFAD could make available.



- 16 -
Project Rationale and Objectives
54.       The major rationales and objectives of the project are to
(a) support part of a high-priority development effort by the Government to
increase agricultural and rural incomes through the diversification and
modernization of agricultural production and processing, via a program of
lending by ABC in Guangxi; (b) increase t'he availability of medium- and long-
term funds to ABC, which has hitherto lent mostly short-term for current
production inputs; and (c) assist NBC in develcping and implementing improved
procedures and methodology for appraising agricultural and rural development
projects, and in improving its operations. In addition, the project will
enable ABC and the technical bureaus at the provincial and local levels to
gain access to foreign expertise in new or specialized agricultural subsectors
where such expertise would be particularly useful. The project will also
expand rural employment and make fu:Ller use of the ample rural labor force,
alleviate rural poverty, raise the value added of agricultural production,
improve production efficiency, and increase the supply and quantity of
agricultural produce, including processed foods, to consumers.
Project Description
55.       The project would provide funds to subborrowers in Guangxi to
finance a three-year program of investment:s for the development of orchard
(mainly citrus) and other tree crops; aquaculture; livestock, comprising
beef/draft cattle, poultry and pigs; and agro-processing. Project funds would
be channelled through ABC to subborrowers comprising collective units
(communes, production brigades and product:ion teams), individual farmers and
households, and state-owned enterprises. ABC expects that of the total
project loan funds, some two-thirds would be accounted for by farmers (as
members of households and collective units) and the remaining one-third by
state-owned enterprises. The project woul.d also have a technical assistance
component for the institutional strengthening of ABC including training and
assistance in improving its project appraisal, information and data management
and future project preparation.
Detailed Features
56.       Orchard and Other Tree Crops.  This component would provide for the
establishment of new plantings and improvements to existing plantings amount-
ing to about 9,000 ha of orchards and 9,600 ha of other tree crops. The
orchards would comprise orange (mainly mandarin orange), pomelo, lichi and
longan.  Other tree crops would include mainly 3tar anise, cassia, eucalyptus
and camphor. Orchard development would account for about four-fifths of the
component's total investment cost. Major investment costs would be for land
preparation (clearing, leveling and terracing), irrigation facilities and
equipment, planting materials, fertilizers, pesticides, spraying equipment,
other small hand tools and labor.  T'he component would also finance production
inputs until the initial crop is produced.  Newly-established plantings would
in some cases be intercropped with cassava, peanuts, soybeans or other vege-
tables over the first few years until the area is sufficiently shaded over by
the trees. The component would be carried out by about 105 collective units
(involving some 70,000 households) and 10 state-owned enterprises.  Subloans



- 17 -
would only be provided for the establishment of orchards and other tree crops
where planting materials and soils (including topography) are considered suit-
able by the Guangxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule Paragraph A.1(a)).
57.       Aquaculture.  This component would finance the construction of new
fishponds, including supporting infrastructure and equipment such as dykes,
drains, canals, sluice gates, turn-down pipes, access roads, earth excavators,
pumping stations to control the flow of water into and out of the fishponds,
manure holding pits, fishing gear, boats, fish breeding ponds and nurseries,
and improvements to existing fishponds to expand the production of carp,
tilapia, shrimp and pearls, and to raise their yields. Construction of new
fishponds may entail partitioning of large water bodies, such as lakes or
reservoirs, into smaller fish ponds or making new fish ponds by surrounding
shallow parts of such water bodies with dykes. The improvements to existing
fishponds would consist of partitioning the ponds for more efficient opera-
tion, raising the secondary dykes and ditches, deepening and leveling of pond
bottoms and canals, and constructing additional sluice gates or turn-down
pipes. The investments to be financed would also include fish feed processing
facilities, arowing of green manure, and the costs of fry, organic manure and
fertilizers, pesticides and faed required to produce the first harvest from
the ponds. Some 3,000 ha of ponds would be developed by about 70 collective
units and 20 state-owned enterprises. A few project farms are expected to be
fish hatcheries raising fry and fingerlings exclusively for sale.  Freshwater
fisheries would account for the buLk of the total pond area (75%) and
investment cost (70%).
58.       Livestock.  Activities to be financed under this component would
comprise the development of beef/draft cattle, poultry and pigs, including
livestock breeding to expand the supply of improved stock, especially chicks
and piglets, to households engaged in the rearing of such stock. Mlajor
investment items would include procurement of improved breeding stock to
upgrade local stock, cattle sheds, pig and poultry pens, incubators, feed
storage facilities, vehicles to transport improved animals to households,
veterinary facilities, establishment of improved pastures mainly on slopeland
presently under wild grasses, and supporting equipment, such as feed choppers,
watering facilities, hauling carts, etc. The establishment cost of improved
pastures would be mainly for land preparation, fencing, seed, fertilizers,
manure, lime and labor. The costs of calves, chicks, feedgrains and labor
required to raise the initial batch of livestock for sale would also be
financed.  Beef/draft cattle would account for nearly 50% of the total invest-
ment cost under this component. Subloan recipients would be state-owned
enterprises, collective units and households. Most of the state-owned
enterprises would produce improved stock for distribution to collectives and
households.
59.       Agro-processing.  This component would include the construction and
equipping of plants for the processing of cassava starch, essential oils,
animal feeds, fish and pearl. Improvements to existing processing facilities
would also be financed. Starch and essential oils would account for about
two-thirds of the total investment cost for this component. The investments
would be undertaken by some 12 state-owned enterprises. An assurance was



- 18 -
obtained that agroprocessing plants financed under the project would be
designed in accordance with sound environmental practices as specified in Bank
enni-ronmental guidelines (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a) and
Sched.lle, Paragraph A.1(b)).
60O       Technical Assistance.  The project would include a technical assist-
ance component aimed at strengthening the operations of ABC in Guangxi and at
readquarters.  This would be the first stage of a long-term program to upgrade
_hE skills of ABC's managerial and technical staff, improve its project
appr 2sal nationwide and increase its internal efficiency through improved
inte-nal aud-ting and information and data management systems.  EDI is
assisting the program through courses in agricultural credit and investment
appra-Lsai given in 1983 and planned for 1984 and 1985.  Project funds would be
-s_ee naanly for training of technical and managrerial staff; technical
expertise primarily for specialized technical aLdvice and for assistance in
prepar--ationi of future projects (12 man-months);  and supporting equipment.  The
training wo-uld consist of (a) overseas fellowships in development credit
management or data processing management; and (b) local training courses of
abcu: one month duration on project preparation and appraisal, project
Lanagement (including auditing, monitoring and evaluation), and microcomputer
use  -.. Trolect work.  Investment items of supporting equipment would include
m4crccomputers9 business calculators, and audio-visual equipment to support
trari1ng3  Assurances were obtained that staff training would be carried out
In a ccrdance with a program agreed between IDA and ABC; and that technical
-xp,e_ts w-v-uld be recruited in accordance with t:he Bank's Guidelines for the
Us c-- c onsultants (draft Project Agreement, Sections 2.09 and 2.03).
'ost 5sL-fmates
611      rYhe project is estimated to cost about $142.4 million of which some
sit.'  million (11%) would be the foreign exchange cost.  The base cost esti-
mate  al-e in September 1983 prices to which is added a physical contingency of
10%.  Expected price increases amount to 19% ofL the base cost plus physical
coritlngencies and are based on annual price escalations of 7.5% in 1984, 7.0%
in 1,85, and 6.0% annually in 1986-88 for both foreign and local (expressed in
uS3 doLlars) costs.  Taxes of about $3 million are included in the base cost
estimates0  The services of technical experts are estimated to cost $10,000
per man-month, including fees, international travel and local allowances.
Fiaacr cr.  Arrangements
.0r,    OF the total project cost of $142.4 mnillion, IDA would finance $50
3 ,llio  !3''    te Government $20 million (14%) (through the operation of the
inter-a,l; _eCtlemnt rate system), ABC $3C0 million (21%), and subborrowers
$42-4 mill ion (30%).  The IDA funding would cover the foreign exchange cost of
$15.L m-.lion and another $34.7 million (28%) of the local currency compo-
nent. Some local cost funding for the project is justified in view of the
small foreign exchange component and the need for IDA to make a meaningful
contribution to project costs.



- 19 -
Procurement
63.       Individual households, collectives and state enterprises usually
purchase fertilizers, pesticides, animal feeds, hand tools and other smali]
equipment items from the Federation of Supply and Marketing Cooperatives - or
local enterprises belonging to collectives and specialized households. Seeds
are purchased from the County Seed Company or local seed farms and machinery
and larger equipment items from the County Agricultural Machinery Company or
other local agricultural machinery companies. Except for the local
enterprises, these organizations are represented in each county and serve as
t       intermediaries for retailing of items distributed through national or provin-
cial wholesale systems.  There is, however, a growing trend toward product
specialization in the distribution system and direct marketing by producing
enterprises. Consequently, specialized households and collective or state
enterprises which procure inputs in some quantity can now, for example,
purchase feed from local mills or a Feed Supply Company, breeder chicks from
various poultry breeding farms, cattle from individual cattle raisers or an
Animal Products Company, fertilizer from local factories, etc.
64.       Project investment :Ltems would be varied and generally small and
would be procured by subborrowers scattered over the province, as and when
required by them, and spread over several years. This makes bulk procurement
impractical. Procurement of project investment items would therefore not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. Moreover, familiarity with
local machinery and equipment, their ready availability, including spare parts
and repair services, and the need for standardization, strongly support the
general preference of the users for locally manufactured over imported
items. Assurances were obtained that investment items under subloans would be
procured locally and in accordance with local procurement procedures
(described in para. 63 above) which are acceptable to IDA; and that equipment
for the technical assistance component would be purchased under contracts
awarded after evaluation and comparison of bids from at least three qualified
suppliers (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.04 and Schedule, paragraph C).
The agricultural inputs and other investment items required by the project
would be readily available.
Disbursements
65.       Project subloans are expected to cover a three-year commitment
period commencing in the latter part of 1984 and the project is e3xpected to be
physically completed by June 30, 1988. Disbursements of the IDA funds are
expected to extend over a four-year period endlng December 31, 1988 and the
Closing Date would be June 30, 1989. Disbursements would be 50% of amounts
disbursed for subloans by ABC; 100% of expenditures for overseas fellowships
and consultant services; and for equipment for technical assistance, 100% of
foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 75% of
invoice costs for other items purchased locally. Withdrawal applications for
4/   A government marketing organization responsible for the distribution and
sale of most agricultural inputs and consumer goods in rural areas. The
organization is also engaged in the government procurement of cash crops.



- 20 -
consultartt services and technical assistance equipment will be fully
documented. Disbursements for subloans will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure listing subloans made, and disbursements for
overseas 'ellowships will be made based on statements of expenditure
-ertifying that the expenditures were incurred on the basis of a training
program agreed with IDA.  Supporting documentation for statement of
expElditure disbursements would be retained by ABC and made available to IDA
staff for review during supervision missions.
66.       Under the projt :t, a special account (revolving fund) would be set
up for disbursements of t.e IDA credit (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 2.02(d) and Schedu:e 3). This account would facilitate project
implementation in view of tuie large numbers of individually small expenditures
to be made by many ABC offices throughout Guangxi. It would be set up and
maintained in dollars in the Bank of China in Beijing. The initial deposit of
the dollar equivalent of SDR 5 million ($5.3 m:Lllion) represents the highest
estimated disbursements of the IDA credit for any three-month period.
Applications for replenishment of the account would be submitted monthly.
Opening of the special account is a condition of credit effectiveness (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(d)).
Implementation
67.       The project would be carried out by ABC under a Project Agreement
with IDA. State Council approval of the :Develcpment Credit and Project
Agreement would be a condition of credit effectiveness (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01 (b)). A Project Coordinating Committee has
recently been established at the regional level to oversee the implementation
of the project and to ensure coordinated planning and execution of project
operations between the ABC and other concerned government departments and
agencies, especially with regard to ensuring the adequate and timely provision
of local cost funding, improved production inputs and technical extension
support, and training. Members of the committee consist of the head of the
Guangxi Economic Commission as the Chairman, the President of ABC Gu.angxi and
the Chiefs of the Guangxi Planning and Export-Import Commissions as the Vice-
chairmen, the directors of the Guangxi bureaus of agriculture, fisheries,
forestry, light industry, and commune and brigade enterprises, and the
Director of the Guangxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences. An assurance was
obtained that the committee would be maintained with composition and functions
acceptable to IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03).
68.       In addition, a Project Unit (PU) wouldl be established in each of
ABC's county offices (subbranches) in the project area which would supervise
and monitor project implementation. It would appraise and supervise project
subloans, ensure the proper utilization of project funds and procurement of
project investment items, maintain separate accounts for the project and
record the progress of the project. The EU wou:Ld also be responsible for
monitoring and evaluating the economic benefits and impact of project lend-
ing. An assurance was obtained that a project lnit would be established and
maintained in each project county (draft Project: Agreement, Section 2.01(b)).



- 21 -
69.       The PU would rely on staff from the local government technical
bureaus (agriculture, livestock, fisheries, etc.) for guidance and assistance
on the technical aspects of project preparation, appraisal and supervision.
This would be an appropriate arrangement and has worked well during the prep-
aration and appraisal of the project. The available technical expertise would
be adequate to meet project needs. Project investments would be evaluated in
terms of their technical feasibility and financial viability based on incre-
mental returns.  An assurance was obtained that ABC would carry out the
appraisals using the procedures and criteria set out in the project appraisal
manual which is being prepared by ABC with the assistance of IDA (draft
4       Project Agreement, Section 2.02 (b) and Schedule, Paragraph Al).  A draft of
this manual was sent to IDA for review in March 1984 and a final version
approved by IDA should be ready for use by the middle of 1984. ABC's issuance
to the Project Units of the appraisal manual and instructions for its use,
both acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(c) and draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.02(b)). IDA with ABC has appraised an initial set of representative
subprojects, and ABC will appraise the remainder. Given ABC's inexperience in
proper appraisal at the outset of project implementation, assurances were
obtained that subloans for the first five subprojects appraised by ABC would
be submitted to IDA for approval (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
2.02(c)); and that subsequent individual subloans in excess of $500,000 would
require IDA's prior approval (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
2.02(b)). It is estimated that about thirty subloans accounting for about
one-third of the proposed credit would be above the free limit.
70.       ABC would forward to IDA semi-annual reports on project progress
within two months of the end of the reporting period (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.06(a)(iii)). ABC wculd maintain separate accounts for the project;
these accounts, including statements of expenditures, and the accounts of ABC
Guangxi's total operations would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; and the audited accounts, together with the annual accounts
(balance sheets and income statements) of ABC's total operations, would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year (draft
Project Agreement, Sections 4.01 and 4.02). Until the newly-created State
Audit Agency can undertake this function (para. 47), these auditors are
expected to be from the Guangxi Finance Bureau.
Lending Terms and Conditions
71.       The proposed $50 million IDA credit would be lent to the Government
on standard terms. The Government would relend these funds to ABC under a
subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to IDA, signature of which would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Sections 3.01(b) and 5.01(a)). Assurances were obtained that the foreign
exchange risk on the IDA credit would be borne by the Government; that the
maturity to ABC would be 20 years, including 6 years grace (see para. 72); and
that the interest rate to ABC would be 2.3% per annum (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). ABC would onlend project funds at its
prevailing interest rates (currently 5.04%) to households, collectives and
state-owned enterprises (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02(c) and
Schedule, Paragraph B2). Based on its administrative costs and total



- 22 -
resources employed in recent years, ABC would need a 2% interest margin to
cover the costs of project lending. An assurance was obtained that any
project funds lent to ABC would bear int:erest at such rates as would, together
with the rate on IDA funds and on ABC's own funds, yield an average cost of
funds to ABC which would give it at least a 2% spread (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).  ABC would be assured of this interest margin
based on the present cost to ABC of its total funds and prevailing lending
ratee  In addition, an assurance was obtained that the Government and ABC
would exchange views on ABC's lending rates with IDA from time to time at the
request of any party in light of ABC's cost of funds and profitability, and
taking into account inflation and other interest rates in China (draft
DeveLopment Credit Agreement, Section 3.04 andl draft Project Agreement,
Section 3 02),
72=       Subborrowers woiild be required to contribute a minimum of 30% of
subproject costs. The repayment periods c' subloans would be determined by
ABC's estimates of the cash flows of the related subprojects but would not
exceed 23 years, and would include an appropriate grace period. The cash flow
estimates for typical subprojects indicate required repayment periods ranging
from 3 to 17 years, but most would require 7-11 years, including 2-6 years of
grace.  JBased oni these estimates, and given that the project funds would be
disb rsed over 4 years, the cash fLow estimated for the project as a whole
L-ditncates that ABC's loan repayment to the government would require a period
of 23 years9 including 6 years grace.  ABC would be permitted to roll over
Fu_dsg repaid to it by subborrowers before its repayment of such amounts to the
GoV -   L .ent
Benefi-s and Justification
733       At full development, the value of the aggregate incremental output
from project investments would be about $180 million per annum. The project
would inc7rease the production of higher value foods which are in short supply
and f0or which demand is growing rapidly, and thereby improve the quality of
rood consumptioni.  Increased annual production would include about 430,000
to;is of fruits and 11,000 tons of aquatic products (mainly fish).  In
aUditionr lending for the establishment or expansion of animal breeding and
fish nurseries would help satisfy the growing demand from individual house-
holds for improved stock, while increasing the supply of red meat, poultry,
and table eggs.
74.       The project would benefit directly some 90,000 families, or 380,000
individuals, through increased production and incomes. The annual demand for
labDr wouoi-d increase by about 20 million man-days, equivalent to 75,000 full-
time' -obs , Lhereby absorbing part of the surplus rural labor force.  The
project would also put to productive use land wThich at present is mostly
wasterland or low-productivity pasture.  The ABC would benefit from institu-
tio71al strengthening through improvements in the efficiency of its overall
credit operations and its capability and capacity to undertake proper
appraisal and supervision of project- investments.
75.       Produtcers would receive fixed prices for products procured by
gover=nment trade organizations and market prices for products procured by



- 23 -
other buyers. For certain products, such as fish, fixed prices are low
relative to free-market prices and quota sales are imposed on all state or
collective enterprises to ensure government procurement. On the other hand,
products to be exported wouldl receive premium prices, but quantities procured
by the government would be limited by international market conditions. The
absorptive capacity of local markets for specialty products or perishables is
quite limited and producers of such products normally would find state prices
advantageous even though no sales quotas apply. Producers of breeding stock,
however, would sell in the free market. In recent years the free market has
received an increasing proportion of products such as meat, fruit, fish and
eggs.  The average farm-gate or ex-factory prices used in the financial
analysis of the project therefore are weighted averages of quota and free
market prices. The financiaL rates of return (FRR) of the project components
based on typical subprojects in each component would range from 15% to 42%. A
guideline in ABC's project appraisal manual will provide that subprojects will
not be considered financially viable if they do not have at least a 10%
FRR. The economic rates of return (ERR) on typical subprojects would vary
from 22% to 40%. For the project as a whole, the FRR and ERR are estimated at
25% and 27% respectively.
76.       No major risks are anticipated.  Sensitivity analysis demonstrates
that all the typical subprojects would yield satisfactory rates of return even
with significant increases in costs and reductions in revenues. The techno-
logical improvements envisaged are already widely in use in China.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Agricultural Bank of China, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
78.       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would
be the following:
(a) that the Borrower's State Council shall have approved the
Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement (para. 67);
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ABC (para. 71);
(c)  that ABC shall have issued a project appraisal manual (para. 69);
and
(d) that a special account for the revolving fund shall have been opened
(para. 66).
79.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.



- 24 -
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
April 5, 1984
Washington, DC



- 25 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CHINA, f.O"OLFAS REP. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PE.OPLE-S REP. OF*                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (NOST RECENT FSTiMATE) lb
lb  RECENT                LOW INCOME              MEDDLF INC(EMF
1960-        1970-   STIMATE-             ASIA 6 PACIFIC            ASIA 6 PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. INi)
TOTAL                                 9561.0        9561.0       9561.0
AGRICULTURAL                          3176.3        3213.0       31R2.9
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        40.0/c       90.0        300.0                276.7                       1028.6
ENERGY CONSUNMrION FER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         340.0         427.0        618.0                398.4                        792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS**
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  683400.0    838900.0    991300.0
URBAN POPULATION (7. OF TOTAL)           18.4/d         .          20.6                 21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTDONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 1197.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                   1434.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2040
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                           71.5         87.7         102.5                161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               215.2        261.1         307.8                363.1                      1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                             38.9         37.7          32.2                 36.6                         39.4
15-64 YRS                             56.3         57.2          62.4                 59.2                        57.2
65 AND ABOVE                           4.8           5.1          5.4                  4.2                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  1.7           2.1          1.5                  1.9                          2.3
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                  4.0                          3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            39.9/e        34.1         20.9                 29.3                         31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            23.77T         9.8          7.8                 10.9                          9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.87H        2.6          1.4                  2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANN.UAL (THOUS)               ..
USERS (N OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..           ..         74.0/f               48.1                         46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                              ..        100.0        117.0                111.4                        125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          78.8/e        88.7        107.0                 98.1                        114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              49.4/e       53.0          65.0                 56.7                         57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               ..        12.7          15.0                 13.9                         14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE**           26.1/e        10.7          7.2                 12.2                          7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)**          40.5/g       57.9         67.2                 59.6                         60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)**        165.07e        90.0         71.0                 96.6                         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..           ..                 32.9                         37.1
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                 70.8                         54.8
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                 22.2                         26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPLTATION)
TOTAL                                   ..            ..           ..                 18.1                         41.4
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                 72.7                         47.5
RUJRAL                                    .           ..           ..                  4.7                         33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSIGCI               8330.0/h    3800.0/h    1920.0/h                3506.0                       7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               4020.0       2840.0        1890.0               4797.9                       2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1040.0         760.0        490.0               1100.6                       1047.2
URBAN                                210.0            ..        160.0                298.4                        651.1
RURAL                              10140.0            ..       1010.0               5941.6                       2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..           ..                   ..                         27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..           ..          5.2
URBAN                                    ..           ..          4.2
RURAL                                   ,.            ..          5.5
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..            ..
LRBAN                                    ..           ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..            ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of G
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REF. OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHINA, PEOPLE'S REP. OF                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTDIATE) /b
llb  RECENT                LOW INCOME               KIDDLE INCGCE
1960-        1970-  ESTDIATE-             ASIA 6 PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
II3UCATIONH**
ADIVSTET ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     109.0         110.0        117.0                 96.1                        101.2
YALE                         ..           ..        126.0                107.8                        106.0
FEMALE                       . .                    106.0                 82.9                         97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      21.0          23.0         34.0                 30.2                         44.9
MALE                         ..           ..         40.0                 37.3                         50.0
FEMALE                       . .          . .        27.0                 22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (N.i OF SECONDARY)               .     .      .          2.2                  2.3                         18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                  ..           ..         26.0                 34.4                         32.7
SECONDARY                                ..           ..         17.0                 18.4                         23.4
ADT,T  ITERACY RATE (7)                 43.0/d         ..         69.0/i               53.5                         72.9
COHIID(FIIION
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSAND POP                ..           ..            ..                 1.6                          9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/TPOUSAND POP               ..           ..        150.6                 96.8                        113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THCUSAND POP                  ..           ..         15.8                  9.9                         50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENtERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THONSAYCD POPUrLATION                 ..           ..           ..                 16.4                         54.0
CINERA  ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..           ..                  3.6                          3.4
LABOR FORCE~-***
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           319589.0/i  377495.0    463348.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      38.3          38.0         37.2                 33.3                         33.6
AGRICTL7.TULRE (PERCENT)                 . .          ..         68.9                 69.0                         50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       ..           ..         18.7                 15.8                         19.2
PARTICIPATIOC  RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 46.8/i        45.0         46.7                 42.5                         38.6
MALE                                  55.971        54.5         57.0                 54.4                         50.7
F XALE                               37.073        35.0         35.9                 29.8                         26.6
ECCNOYIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9/j        1.0          0.8                  1.0                          1.1
INEAIsE DIRSTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
NECEIVED BY
RIGHEST 5E OF lOUSEHOLDS                 ..           ..         12.5/k               16.5                         22.2
HIGlEST 211 OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..         39.37k               43.5                         48.0
OkTEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                 ..           ..          6.8/k                6.9                          6.4
LOWEST 40  OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..         18.47k               17.5                         15.5
IOVERTY TARGET GROUlPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (185$ PER CAPITA)
CUBAN'                                   . .          .,           . .               133.9                        194.5
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                111.6                        155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL 'USS PER CAPITA)
URSAN                                    ..           ..           ..                  ..                         178.0
RuRAL                                   ..            ..           ..                  ..                         164.8
SRNIMATrE  POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
O'VERCY INCOME LEVEL (1)
URRAN                                    ..           ..           ..                 43.8                         24.4
R1'RA'                                              _______________ ______ _________51.7                           41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
'0T1' IPM.-CANLE
N O T E S
/a  Ths group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
.971; a,  data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/C  Tl-Wsrrg,! Led 1957-62 data; /d 1964; /e 1955-65 average; If Percentage? of women of reproductive age; /g 1955-64
a-.erege; /I3 Senior doctor of western medicine; /i 1982; /i 1957; /k Distribution of people ranked by households per
capirt  income.
i All population and vital statistics are Bank estimates which differ from Chinese official statistics.
***  Ro tooL education only; non-formal enrollment is substantial.
* Dj:.-4t1oon and coverage differ from those of Chinese official statistics.



'El  I'    -          E~~~~~~~~~~~~ElEl~~~~~~'                                                                          I                       A"                    Hi~~~~~S  Y   'E 
Fr - ~  ~              ~             ~ ~ h                                                         
El El  El El  ElLElEl-    El   El El El El                                             El'        El  El                El                          El            El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i3
El El El  El El El El El I ElI El El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   ...                                                            F   11 
- El El  ~~~~~~-' El  ElElEl  ElEl El I  ElElElElElElElElElEl-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ElElEl                                     ElEl  El- 1 I 
El ElElElElEl- El El    El El El    -~~~       ~~~       ~~ EL IE El l    l
El'  El  E    El   El   E  El   El'   l  El  El  l  El  El    l   El   El'El    El   El El   El  E
El  El  El    '  El  El  El  El' E    El  El  El   El. El  El  El   El El   El  El'  ElElElElElElEl El  El   El  El  El  El  El  El  E



- 28 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 4 ol' 6
Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual Growth (x) at Constant Prices
1957-70   1970-77   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Production
Gross Output
Agriculture                       2.2       3.4       9.0    8.6    3.9    6.6   11.0
Light industry                    8.3       7.8      10.8    9.6   18.4   14.1    5.7
Heavy industry                   11.6       9.3      15.6    7.7    1.4   -4.7    9.9
Net Material Product (NMP)          5.2       4.8      12.4    7.0    6.1    4.8    7.4
1957    1970    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981   1982
Prices
Retail price index (1970=100)  92.2   100.0   102.7   103.3    105.4   111.7   114.4  116.6
NMP deflator         (1970=100)  90.7   100.0    99.1   100.5    104.5   108.4   110.5  110.9
Exchange rate        (Y/US$)       2.46    2.46    1.86    1.68         1.55    1.50    1.71   1.89
Amount                                                        Average Annual Growth
1982                   Shares of GDP (%)                     (%) at Constant Prices
National Accounts              ($ billion)    1957    1979    1982    1985    1990  1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-90
/a       /a
GDP                            260.4       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    5.8            5.8       6.0       6.5
Agriculture                   96.1          .,    32.5    36.9    32.4    27.9    1.6           3.2       5.8       3.2
Industry                     105.4          .,    43.5    40.5    44.4    48.1   12.1           8.9       7.4       8.2
Other                         58.9          ,.    24.0    22.6    23.2    24.0    3.5           4.3       1.2       7.1
Consumption                    181.6        76.4    68.4    69.7    73.8    76.7    2.7            5.4       5.7       7.4
Investment                      73.2        23.2    32.5    28.1    27.5    25.0    9.8            6.8      2.3       4.8
Exports GNFS                    24.9         3.7/b   6.0       9.6      8.7      8.1    1.6/b    8.0/b   14.1          3.2
Imports GNFS                    20.0         3.5/b   6.8       7.7    10.0       9.8    2.3/b    9.4/b    2.7          7.9
National savings                78.9        23.6/c  31.9    30.3    26.4    23.0          ..
As % of GDP
Public Finance                                    1957          1979           1981
Current revenues (excluding foreign            28.7           27.4          22.6
borrowing)
Current expenditures                            16.1          17.7          14.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                    +12.6           +9.7          +8.0
Capital expenditures                            11.9          15.1           8.8
Foreign borrowing Id                             0.7           0.9            1.6
Other Indicators                                1957-79   1979-82   1982-85   1985-90
/a
GDP growth rate (%)                            5.4         6.0        5.7        7.0
GDP per capita growth rate (Z)                  3.5        4.6        4.4        5.8
Energy consumption growth rate (%)              8.3         ,,         ..         ..                                        )
ICOR                                           5.4          ..         ..        3.8
Marginal savings rate                           0.42        ..         ..        0.16
Import elasticity                              0.95      0.45         1.9        1.3
/a  NMP basis.
7b  Goods only.
/c  GDS.
/d  Gross.



- 29 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
,Population: 1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per capita: US$300 (1982)
CHINA -EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                   Annual Growth Rates (%)
(million US$ at                               (at constant 1980 prices)
Indicator                        current prices)                         Actual                             Projected
1982                      1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports                  22,476                    25.5    16.8    15.9       6.2     2.6     2.0      1.0     4.0
Energy                              5,353..                             ..       .      ..        .
Other primary                       5,110..                             *
Manufactures                       11,356                      .         .      .        .       .
other                                 657..                             .       ..       .       ..       .
Merchandise imports                  17,830                    21.7    16.7   -8.6       3.0      7.6'   15.0'   10.'0     q.0
Food                                4,003                      .         .      .        .       .
Petroleum                               0                      ..       .        .0                     0       0        0
Machinery and equipment             3,405                      .         .      .        ,       *
Other                              10,422..                             .       ..       .        .       .
Prices
Export price index (1978=100)             ..100.0  115.9   119.1  114.4   109.8  113.0  117.5  124.2
import price index (1978=100)             ..100.0  116.6  121.9  103.9   103.0  107.5  112.4  118.6
Terms of trade index (1978=100)           ..100.0   99.4   97.7  110.1  106.6  105.1  104.5  104.7
Composition of M1.erchandise Trade (%)                     Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1979    1980    1981   1982    1985    1990   1957-70  1970-79   1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                         100.0   100.0  1,00.0   100.0  100.0  100.0           1.6        8.0      14.8        1.9        4.0
Energy                         19.5   25.1    22.9    23.8    10.9        0           .                    .
other primary                  34.1   28.4    24.1   22.8    24.2   23.8              ..
Manufactures                   46.4   46.5   47.8    50.5    59.5   70.9             .           ..
other                           0       0        5.2     2.9     5.4      5.3        .          ..
iport~s                        100.0   100.0  100.0  1.00.0   100.0  100.0           2.3       9.4        3.2       10.8      10.0
FOOd                             .              19.6    22.5    20.0    16.8         .          ..
Energy                          0       0        0       0       0        8.2        ..       0          0          0
Machinery and                  25.2   27.5   24.2    19.1   26.7   25.1              .           ..
equipment
Other                            .        ..    56.2   58.5   53.3   49.9
Share of Trade With
Share of Trade With             Share of Trade With                 Countries with Centrally
Industrial Countries()    Developing Countries   )                    Planned Economies (%) /s
Direction of Trade               1978              1981           1978              1981                1978              1981
Exports                        37.3              45.9          51.6              50.2                 11.1               3.9
Imports                        73.3              76.8          17.5              18.7                  9.2              4.5
/a Includes the Soviet UJnion, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.



- 30 -                     ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
opoulation.  1,008 million (mid-1982)
NP Der capita:  US$300 (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                 Projected
Indicator                              1979    1980    1981        1982    1983    1985    1990
________  estimate
ialance of Payments
Exports of goods and services             15,351  20,901  25,157   25,989  26,300  29,350  48,020
of which: Merchandise f.o.b.           13,658  18,492  22,027   22,476  22,150  24,420  39,330
Imports of goods and services             18,204  24,752  24,380   20,793  22,100  30,040  59,470
of ehich: Msrchandise f.o.b.            16,212  22,049  21,047   17,830  19,010  26,230  52,760
Net transfers                                596      500      680      412      420      500      800
-urrent account balance                   -2,257  -3,351   1,457    5,608   4,620    -190 -10,650
?r-vate direc' investment                      -       57      265      359      400      500   1,500
MLT loans (ne,-)                             800   1,130       416       426     400      800   6,000
Official                                   350     446      479       557      600
Private                                    450     684      -63      -131    -200
Other capital                              2,054   2,555      365      -102    -400       600   1,000
Change in net reserves ("-" =
iLcrease)                                -597    -391  -2,503   -6,291   -5,020   -510   2,150
Tnternational reserves                     7,274   7,665  10,168   16,459   21,479
of w4hich:  gold                        5,120   5,120   5,120    5,120    5,120
Reserves as soOLths imports                  4.8      3.7      5.0       9.4     11.6
xternal Capita and Debt
Gross disbursements                           ..
Concessional loans                          ..
DAC
OPEC                                      ..
'DA
Other
Nonconcessional loans
Official export credits                   ..
IBRD
0ther mrultilateral                       ..
Private
oxternal debt
Debt outstandlng and disbursed              ..   5,433   5,785    6,058
Official                                  ..       .
Private                                   ..
Undisbucsed debt                            ..
Debt service
otal service payments              ..       ..
Interest                         ..       ..
Payments as x exports GNFS         ..       ..      5.0     7.B/a   10.0/a
verage interest rate on new
loans (X)                          ..       ..
nverage maturity of new loans
(years)                            ..       ..      ..
-i Including some early repayment of principal.



- 31 -                                     ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK [GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or
Credit                                                                 ($ millions)
Number    Year   Borrower               Purpose                Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
2021     1981   People's Republic    University De-
1167               of China               velopment            100.0   100.0         133.6
1261     1982   People's Republic    Agricultural
of China              Development                    60.0         42.5
2207     1982   People's Republic    Ports                     124.0       -         124.0
of China
1297     1982   People's Republic    Ag. Ed. and
of China              Research                -      75.4         70.4
2226     1982   People's Republic    Industrial
1313               of China               Credit                40.6    30.0          67.7
2231     1983   People's Republic    Daqing
of China               Petroleum            162.4      -         160.0
2252     1983   People's Republic    Zhongyuan
of China               Petroleum            100.8      -         100.0
2261     1983   People's Republic    Heilongjiang Land
1347               of China               Reclamation           35.3    45.0          80.0
1411     1983   People's Republic    Polytechnic/TV
of China              University              -      85.0         85.0
1412     1983   People's Republic    Technical
of CLina               Cooperation            -      10.0          9.8
1417     1984/a People's Republic    Rubber De-
of China              velopment               -    100.0         100.0
2382     1984/b People's Republic    Lubuge Hydro-
of China               electric            145.4       -         145.4
1984/c People's Republic    Railway                  220.0                 220.0
of China
Total                                           708.5   505.4      1,118.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       708.5   505.4
Total undisbursed                                    704.4   414.0
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1984)
None
/a  Signed on January 5, 1984, but not yet effective.
/a Signed on March 12, 1984, but not yet effective.
Zc Approved on March 27, 1984 but not signed as of March 31.
Note:    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 32 -                                ANNEX III
CHINA
RURAI, CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            SiLx months
(b)  Project prepared by:                      ABC assisted by IDA staff and
consultants
(c) First presentation to IDA and
first mission:                          April 1983
(d)  Departure of Appraisal mission:           August 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations:               March 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:            Jtuly 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Acticn
Assistance in drafting appraisal manual f'or ABC, including case studies
of selected subprojects.
Section III: Special Conditions
Credit effectiveness:
Issuance of the project appraisal manual (para. 69).
Other special conditions:
Minimum 2% interest margin for ABC (para. 71).
Exchange of views on interest rates (para. 71).



lBRD 17483R1
=  t  do   u        o'F      'O           { S  L             '     E, {{;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u s 
\                                             g  7  s X)kv   u  S R  N   JSSR
I t X X SAt0W ; > tS t; te~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t '\AN     --                 .4L
5                              44'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PID L     A A
CRorpDralJoD~~~ 7C   en ma os  _  1 tS PN S. -  - ii
N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
z-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
V-y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
RUA    CRdl  PROEC Kh onc  hw             L2                 
.,,   b   _   .   _  ;                                   X   f   *, T -H,  EA 'W l A ; . 4 4 ' 0   I
fi                Si,g44444-I.1tI    N  T'                                     OFPQP.          TLk
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -C -onv  '' PA/aK 544
Ih Provillolal Capitals                  'h          i       EP LI
4 -  -  Proln4a -onare          15    4-      F   e,Ma 
M,,,., T,O   A             C
C'i4 4  T I aDioR  F  ° l_               PH ILIPPINES
.  -   j   ,  <,  @/ eLee tvvj : zon .Sb 98]5u-  I



t



