Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18008
IMLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
1992 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2468-PAK)
June 1, 1998
Infrastructure Operations Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit
President's Memorandum (February 1993)  US$ 1.0       Rs. 25
Completion (December 1997)             US$ 1.0        Rs. 44
GOP AND GOProvinces' FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July I - June 30
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
Inperial Units                 -      Metric Units
1 inch (in)                   =       25.4 millimeters (mm)
I foot (ft)                   =       30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                   =       0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                   =        1.609 kilometgrs (km)
I acre (ac)                   =       0.405 hectares (ha)
I square mile (sq mi)                 259 hectares (ha)
1 pound (lb)                  =       0.454 kilograms (kg)
I long ton (Ig ton)           =       1.016 metric tons (t)
I cubic foot/second (cfs)             0.0283 cubic meters/second (m3/s¢c)
28.32 fiters/second (1/sec)
1,233.5 cubic meters (M3)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB               =      Asian Development Bank
AJK               =      Azad Jammu & Kashmir
CWD               -      Communication and Works Department
FFC               =      Federal Flood Commission
FWO                      Frontier Works Organization
GOP               =      Government of Pakistan
IA                =      Implementing Agency
ICB               =      International Competitive Bidding
ICR               =      Implementation Completion Report
IDA               =      International Development Association
KfW               =      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCB               =      Local Competitive Bidding
NHA                      National Highway Authority
NWFP              =      North West Frontier Province
O&M               =      Operation and Maintenance
PC                =      Provincial Coordinator
PC-I                     Planning Commission Proforma-l
SA                =      Special Account
SC                =      Supervisory Consultant
Vice President:              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:            Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager:              Frannie F. Humplick
Staff-Members:              Qamar/Qureshi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
1992 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2468-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .1.............................. 
Evaluation Summary ..............................................................                                     ii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background ................................................................
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ...............................................................2
B.  Achievement of Objectives ..............................................................3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................................................6
D.  Project Sustainability ..............................................................8
E.  IDA's Performance ...............................................................9
F. B orrower's Performance ...................                                                                       10
G. A          ssessment of Outcome....................10
H. Future Operations  ....................11
I. Key Lessons Learned ..........11
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table :3      Project Timetable.16
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual                     .16
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A:   Project Costs.18
Table 8B: Project Financing .18
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .19
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
APPENDICES
A.    Mission's Aide-Memoire ............................................ 22
B.    Borrower's Evaluation and Summary of Operational Plan ............................................   48
C.    Maps.61



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
1992-FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2468-PAK)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the 1992-Flood Damage
Restoration Project in Pakistan, for which Credit No. 2468-PAK in the amount of SDR 72.8
(US$100 million equivalent) was approved on March 4, 1993, and made effective on July 29, 1993.
2.    The original closing date was December 31, 1996. However, during project implementation,
major floods occurred again in 1994 and the project scope was expanded to include critical
restoration works resulting from these floods. The part of the project related to the 1992 flood events
was closed on December 31, 1996, the original credit closing date. However, the closing date for the
works related to the 1994 floods, and a few contracts related to 1992 floods, was extended until
December 31, 1997. SDR 3.8 million were canceled on August 6, 1997, and SDR 3.68 million on
December 31, 1997. The last disbursement was made in the first week of June 1998. A further
amount of SDR 2.72 million was canceled in the first week of June, 1998, giving a total cancellation
of SDR 10.2 million. The project was co-financed by the Asian Development Bank (which provided
US$100 million, of which US$75.92 million were disbursed) and by KfW, which provided DM.15
million (US$10 million equivalent) which was fully disbursed. The European Community also
provided £20 million (US$30 million equivalent) for restoration works outside the project.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Nasar Iqbal Dodhy (consultant) under the guidance of
Messrs. Usman Qamar (SASRD) and Navaid A. Qureshi (SASIN). Ms. Jalena Pantelic (SASIN) was
the peer reviewer. The ICR was reviewed by Ms. Frannie Humplick (SASIN), Messrs. Christopher
Hall (PREM) and Abid Hasan (SACIS). Comments on the ICR were also provided by the
co-financiers (ADB and KfW).
4.    Preparation of the ICR was initiated during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission,
during November 10 - December 11, 1997. It is based on material available in the project files,
quarterly progress reports, several technical reports, end of assignment reports prepared by the
supervisory consultants, and data collected during the mission.  It covers the IDA assisted
component of the Project. The borrower contributed to preparation of this ICR by (i) providing data;
(ii) commenting on the draft ICR; and (iii) preparing its own evaluation report, including a post-
completion operation plan (Appendix B).



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
1992 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2468-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    During the 1992 monsoon season, Pakistan experienced exceptionally heavy rainfall which
resulted in widespread floods in most parts of the country. The floods affected all the four provinces
of Pakistan as well as the northern areas and Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) causing considerable
loss of life, widespread damage to crops, public infrastructure and private property. The heavy rains,
landslides and inundation destroyed or severely damaged over 960,000 houses and affected about 4.8
million inhabitants; 1,200 people lost their lives. Government estimates indicated total damages of
US$2.4 billion equivalent, of which about US$0.5 billion related to public infrastructure. The
sectors hardest hit by the floods were agriculture and communication. In response to GOP's request,
IDA and ADB jointly appraised the project as an emergency operation in October 1992.
Negotiations were completed in November 1992 and January 1993, respectively.
Project Objectives
2.     The main objective of the project was to assist the Government of Pakistan in implementing
a national program to restore vital economic infrastructure damaged or destroyed in the 1992 floods'/
in order to minimize disruption to economic activity and social services. The restoration program
included two parts: Part-I, for which external assistance was requested, covered federal and
provincial infrastructure, including roads and bridges; irrigation, drainage and flood protection
works; and primary education and basic health facilities. Part II covered the remaining sectors and
was to be implemented using the Governments' own resources. IDA co-financed the Part-I program
through the project, which comprised a three-year time slice of the Government's effort to restore
flood damaged public infrastructure. A sectoral approach to project design was adopted in order to
respond flexibly and efficiently to the country's needs.
3.     The project objectives were clear and the sectors selected for project support reflected the
borrower's needs and restoration priorities. The project components were well linked to the project
objectives. In terms of size, this project was three times as large as the 1988 Flood Damage
Rehabilitation project which was implemented in four years. The implementation period of three and
a half years was, therefore, somewhat ambitious.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.     Achievements of Objectives:  The project's main objective --restoration of vital public
infrastructure-- has been largely achieved. Except for a few sub-projects for which works costing
about Rs. 52 M spilled over beyond the closing date, all contracted works were completed by
December 31, 1997. The balance of works are being completed by the Government using its own
Following recurrence of major floods during 1994, the project scope was expanded to include restoration of critical
damages which occurred in 1994.



- ini -
resources. Barring a few exceptions, the quality of the works was generally satisfactory and
compared favorably with similar works carried out by tlhe implementing agencies under other
programs.
5.    Institution Building: This was the first flood restoration project covering AJK. Many of
the staff of various implementing agencies were for the first time exposed to, and benefited from,
Bank procedures and practices relating to procurement, requirements of good contract management,
establishment of quality control regimes, and improved financial management. Other institution
building achievements included preparation of standard bidding documents, manuals for standard
designs of light suspension bridges, and preparation and implementation of innovative and
sustainable slope stabilization measures for main road links in AJK which had historically required
frequent high cost maintenance interventions.
6.    Project Sustainability: Effective operation of flood monitoring systems is essential for the
sustained operation of the restored structures. Early warning systems can play a major role in
reducing future flood damage. Improvement of flood mitigation measures, including an upgraded
and improved telemetry system and complementary technical assistance were included under ADB's
Flood Sector Improvement Project. Hence no components for flood mitigation were included in the
IDA component. It was recognized that the works undertaken under the project would have little
impact on the overall risk of future damage during similar major floods. However, the restoration
works included appropriate design improvements wherever warranted. The facilities restored under
the project being new, are expected to require only limited maintenance during the next few years.
O&M expenditures of lAs have generally decreased in real terms over the last few years, largely as a
result of severe financial constraints faced by the federal and provincial govemments. As part of the
Post-completion Operational Plan, the govemment has proposed a program for improving O&M that
involves enhancing participation of users/beneficiaries and improving cost recovery. Effective
implementation of the Plan should lead to improved prospects of sustainability over the medium
term.
7.    Project Costs, Implementation Time Table and Disbursements: At completion, the total
cost of the restoration works carried out under the project was Rs 6,888 million (US$195.5 million
equivalent) as compared to the appraisal estimate of Rs 9,930 million (US$397.2 million equivalent).
Following were the main reasons for the lower completion cost: (i) the initial estimates of the
damages turned out to be significantly higher than the actual amounts needed to restore these
facilities; (ii) works with estimated cost of Rs. 2,387 million (US$95.5 million equivalent) and
Rs. 750 million (US$30 million equivalent) were assigned to the Frontier Works Organization and
the European Community respectively, for implementation outside the project; and (iii) some
contracts could not be awarded and implemented during the project period due to procurement
delays. Works related to the 1992 damages were mostly completed by December 31, 1996, the
original closing date. However, the closing date was selectively extended to December 31, 1997,
primarily for works relating to the 1994 flood damages. The IDA Credit and ADB loans were not
fully utilized because of devaluation of the Pakistani Rupee. A sum of SDR 10.2 million was not
utilized and therefore canceled from the IDA Credit.
8.    Factors Affecting Achievement of Objectives:  The project successfully achieved its
objective of restoring the flood damaged infrastructure, in spite of several factors that adversely
affected project implementation. These included: (i) a period of hostilities along the line of control
in Neelam Valley in AJK; (ii) delay in making the new procedures for establishing and operating
special accounts operational; (iii) delays in submitting withdrawal applications for replenishment of



- iv -
special accounts, and inadequate provision of bridge financing by the government, which caused
cash flow problems; (iv) delay in procurement of vehicles for the supervisory consultants; (v)
inadequate progress monitoring by the part-time provincial coordinators (PCs) who had little control
over the implementing agencies and were therefore unable to always ensure quick resolution of
implementation issues; (vi) generally poor quality of initial sub-project preparation by the
implementing agencies, particularly during the early project period; (vii) frequent transfers of PCs
and field staff; (viii) procurement delays; and (ix) generally weak contract management by the
implementing agencies. The project's successful outcome was primarily attributable to: (i) a flexible
sectoral plus "demand-driven" design that did not predetermine provincial or agency shares, and
instead encouraged competition for project resources by allowing access to the Credit on a 'first-
come-first-served' basis; (ii) continued IDA funding for sub-projects being made conditional on
satisfactory implementation agency performance; (iii) good coordination, follow-up and
implementation support by the supervisory consultants; and (iv) pro-active and continuous
supervision by easily accessible IDA field office-based staff, located close to the Client.
9.     Bank and Borrower Performance: The Bank's performance during identification,
preparation and appraisal was satisfactory.  The Bank's Islamabad Office started monitoring the
flood damages and coordinating with other potential co-financiers, immediately following the flood
event. The Bank fielded an appraisal mission, jointly with ADB, in October 1992, immediately
following GOP's request for assistance. The Bank agreed to the appointment of a national consulting
firm as the project supervisory consultants on a single source basis to respond to the urgency of the
situation. The sectoral approach to project design was appropriate and provided flexibility necessary
for successful implementation of such an emergency operation. The implementation arrangements
were also generally satisfactory, except for a weakness in the disbursement arrangements where only
one special account was provided for each province and AJK, even though multiple implementing
agencies were involved.  This proved inadequate and constrained cash flow, since current
government rules and procedures do not allow for easy interagency transfer of project funds. The
Bank's performance during project implementation was satisfactory and proactive. Supervision
efforts included missions as well as continuous implementation assistance from field office based
staff. In addition, the Bank promoted tough measures to address delays in contract awards and to
facilitate timely project completion. These included cut-off dates for award of contracts and various
measures to improve contract management.
10.   The borrower's performance during project identification and preparation was satisfactory.
GOP promptly prepared a preliminary report on the flood damages and immediately sought
assistance from the Bank, ADB and other potential donors. The project document (PC-I) was
prepared within a record period of one week and necessary approvals were granted quickly. The
overall performance of the borrower and implementation agencies during project implementation
was generally satisfactory, when compared to performance on other (GOP financed) projects.
However, the project suffered from the poor contract management practices endemic in Pakistan's
public works sectors. Progress monitoring by the PCs was only partly effective, as they had little
control over the implementing agencies or field officers. However, regular high level monitoring
initiated by the Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission, after the 1994 floods proved effective,
particularly in addressing bridge financing and related cash flow problems.
11.   Project Outcome: The project has achieved its main objective of restoring vital
infrastructure destroyed or damaged in the 1992 and 1994 Floods. The project benefits are already
evident. In the Irrigation/Flood Protection sub-sector, breached canals and damaged structures
(weirs, barrages, regulators) have been repaired and in some cases improved. Restoration of flood



- v -
protection works has saved fertile land and adjoining road links from getting inundated. Similarly,
damaged roads, bridges, and culverts have been restored and opened to traffic. Three major bridges,
which provide vital links between Azad Jammu and Kashmir and the rest of Pakistan, have been
substantially completed. Damaged schools and basic health units were repaired or rebuilt at safer
sites and are now functional. The rehabilitated facilities are expected to better cope with similar
floods in future.
12.   Economic Analysis: As is customary for such emergency projects, an economic analysis
was not undertaken at the time of appraisal. During implementation, economic analyses were,
however, carried out for sub-projects involving major design improvements. The ERRs of such sub-
projects were generally above 15 percent and in some cases were as high as 27 percent.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
13.   Important Findings: For projects involving decentralized implementation by multiple
implementing agencies, appropriate arrangements must be in place for ensuring: (i) timely flow of
funds to the field offices, who are responsible for awarding and managing contracts; (ii) efficient
financial management; and (iii) effective progress monitoring.
14.   Future Operations: The project implementing agencies are also responsible for operating
and maintaining the infrastructure facilities restored under the project, as part of their normal
functions. Currently O&M is deficient. However, this is a generic issue affecting most sectors of the
economy. The main reasons for deficient O&M are: (i) inadequate allocation of O&M funds due to
resource constraints and diversion of available resources to new capital investments; (ii) inadequate
maintenance management; and (iii) lack of beneficiary participation, low cost recovery and lack of
accountability towards users. The project implementing agencies have prepared a Post-completion
Operation Plan (PCOP) that seeks to improve O&M. In the irrigation, drainage and flood protection
sector, O&M issues are to addressed by decentralizing O&M responsibility and greater farmer
involvement in management. In the roads sector, innovative arrangements are being developed as
part of the proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project for the progressive commercialization of roads
and mobilization of resources for O&M through user charges. Effective implementation of the
proposed PCOP should ensure sustainable and efficient operation of the rehabilitated infrastructure
assets over the medium term.
15.   Key Lessons Learned
(i)    Flexible and demand-driven design, appropriate "macro" indicators for monitoring
implementation performance, and performance-based eligibility criteria are
appropriate for emergency/restoration type projects involving multiple implementing
agencies.
(ii)   Proactive supervision and stringent application of efficiency criteria in procurement
and contract administration help improve borrower/agency implementation
performance.
(iii)   Regular high level oversight of project implementation by provincial and federal
authorities, coupled with good coordination and implementation support by the
supervisory consultants is important for successful project implementation.



- vi -
(iv)   Financing and disbursement arrangements require careful design, particularly where
projects involve decentralized implementation by multiple agencies. Also, effective
financial management systems should be in place before project startup. Such
projects should be candidates for introducing the Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI).
(v)    Full time Project Coordinators at the provincial and agency levels, with appropriate
powers to address and resolve implementation bottlenecks, would improve borrower
performance.
(vi)   Projects involving extensive contract administration should provide for training of
implementing agency staff in modem contract management techniques.



- 1 -
1992-FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2468 - PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    During the 1992 monsoon season, Pakistan experienced exceptionally heavy rainfall which
resulted in widespread floods in most parts of the country. Heavy rains in August saturated soils
over most of the catchment area, leaving little capacity to absorb additional moisture. As a result,
when additional torrential rains occurred in the northern areas on September 8 and 9, 1992, the run-
off began almost immediately, causing flash floods. The resulting torrents caused unprecedented
flows in the Jhelum and Chenab Rivers in Punjab province and in the Indus River in Sindh Province.
Conditions were exacerbated because major dams and detention reservoirs were already full. The
result was serious flooding accompanied by landslides. During the floods, the Federal Flood
Warning Center (FFWC) and Flood Control Center (FCC) issued flood forecasts and warnings.
However because the FFWC's forecasting capability was impaired by the poor condition of the
telemetry system and the inherent shortcomings of the two weather radars, it was impossible to
provide accurate flood forecasts.
2.    The floods affected all the four provinces of Pakistan as well as the northern areas and Azad
Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) causing considerable loss of life, widespread damage to crops, public
infrastructure and private property. According to the Government's Project Document (based on
damage reports filed by various line departments and spot checked by the consultants), the heavy
rains, landslides and inundation destroyed or severely damaged over 960,000 houses and affected
about 4.8 million inhabitants; 1,200 people lost their lives. Government estimates indicated total
damages of US$2.4 billion equivalent, of which about US$1.9 billion were for loss or damage to
private property and US$0.5 billion to public infrastructure. The sectors hardest hit by the floods
were agriculture and communication. Highways were flooded or blocked by landslides, several
bridges were destroyed or damaged, road embankments and other structures were washed away.
About 900 miles of irrigation canals, water channels and flood control and protection works at many
locations along the Indus river and its tributaries were badly damaged.
3.    To alleviate some of the hardships caused by the floods, the Government announced a relief
package that included a compensation of Rs. 50,000 to families who lost an income earning member,
Rs. 5000 as compensation for every house destroyed in the floods, a one year exemption from
payment of income tax, wealth tax, land revenues, etc., in the flood affected areas, a one year
suspension of servicing of agricultural loans, and interest free loans for the purchase of seeds and
fertilizer. Apart from these immediate relief measures (limited to Rs. 4 billion), no compensation for
production losses were given to the private sector.
4.    In addition, the Government drew up an elaborate program  for reconstruction and
rehabilitation of the public sector infrastructure costing about US$483 million. The restoration
program included two parts: Part-I estimated at US$397 million, for which external assistance was
requested, covered roads and bridges; irrigation, drainage and flood protection works; schools and



- 2 -
health facilities; and some consultant services. Part II estimated at US$86 million, covered the
remaining sectors and was to be implemented using the Government's own resources.
5.     Responding quickly to the situation, on September 10, 1992, the World Bank's field office in
Islamabad began monitoring the flood damage and coordinating with potential donors. In October
1992, ADB and IDA jointly appraised this project as an emergency operation. It was negotiated in
November 1992 and January 1993 respectively. KfW joined the project later as a co-financier. The
IDA Credit was the fourth of its kind since 1973. The three previous operations related to floods
which occurred in 1973, 1976 and 1988. In addition to the Credit, IDA made available an amount of
US$50 million equivalent for restoration works from ongoing IDA assisted operations in Pakistan,
which supported similar activities.  Strengthening of the Flood Warning System, through
replacement and upgrading of the telemetry system and procurement of more suitable weather radar
was taken up under the ongoing ADB assisted Flood Protection Sector Project.
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
6.     Project Objectives: The main objective of the project was to assist the Government of
Pakistan in implementing a national program to restore vital economic infrastructure damaged or
destroyed in the 1992 floods-' in order to minimize disruption to economic activity and social
services. It was recognized that in the foreseeable future, improvement of the existing flood
protection system of levees or bunds along rivers was the only practical means for protection against
floods. Construction of a system of reservoirs with sufficient capacity to provide storage and thus
control floods was a technically better solution, but construction of such a complex system was not
economically feasible in the near future. The works to be undertaken under the project would have
little impact on the overall risk of future damage during similar major floods. Nevertheless, such
works would restore damaged infrastructure and stimulate a return to normalcy.
7.     The project comprised a three-year time slice of the Government's program to restore flood-
damaged public infrastructure. A sectoral approach to project design was adopted in order to
respond flexibly and efficiently to the country's needs. In view of the large extent and geographical
spread of the flood-damages, the project specified criteria for sub-project selection/prioritization and
restoration standards to be followed. In principle, the project was to restore damaged facilities to the
pre-1992 flood condition. However, limited design improvements were allowed, where justified, to
ensure that the restored facilities met environmental, quality and efficiency standards.
8.    IDA co-financed the Part-I program. The IDA assisted sub-projects were spread in the four
provinces and the AJK area and included:
Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection Facilities
*  Irrigation System: Repair of breaches in canal banks; removal of silt deposited by flood
water; repair/reconstruction of control structures, canal bridges, outlets and irrigation
buildings, such as gauge huts, accommodations and offices.
2'   Following recurrence of major floods during 1994, the project scope was expanded to include restoration of critical
damages which occurred in 1994.



- 3 -
*  Drainage System: Desilting of drainage channels, repair/reconstruction of inlet structures,
repair of breaches and other ancillary works.
*  Flood Protection Works: Repair of breaches and restoration of eroded embankments;
repair of hydraulic structures; and restoration of river control spurs.
*  Dams and Weirs: These structures located in damaged irrigation schemes required
restoration of embankments, aprons, spillways and outlets control structures, and stone
pitching.
*  Barrages:  Repair of control gates and operating mechanisms; reinstatement of stone
protection on guide bunds and in downstream aprons; and restoration of earthwork on guide
and marginal bunds.
Roads, Bridges and Related Works
*  Reconstruction of damaged roads including road embankments, pavements, culverts, small
bridges, retaining wall and related ancillary works. Repairing breaches and damaged road,
providing additional flood protection works and slope stabilization (including drainage
vents, and culverts needed for passing larger flows in reconstructed road sections).
Construction of the seven major bridges. Procurement of removable steel bridges.
Primary Schools & Basic Health Units
*  Repair and/or construction of buildings and ancillary structures. Rehabilitation and/or
construction of sanitary facilities. Repair and/or replacement of basic furniture and fixtures
needed to render facilities fully operational.
9.     Evaluation of Objectives: The project objectives were clear and the sectors selected for
project support reflected the borrower's needs and restoration priorities. The project components
were well linked to the project objectives. Restoration of irrigation, drainage and flood protection
facilities was vital for the agriculture based economy of the country. Roads were the dominant mode
of transport carrying over 85 percent of the inland passenger and freight traffic. The importance of
restoring primary education and basic health facilities was also evident. In terms of size, this project
was three times as large as the 1988 Flood Damage Rehabilitation project which was implemented in
four years. The scale of the project was therefore a challenge to the Governments' implementation
capacity.
B. ACHIEVEMENTS OF OBJECTIVES
10.   The project's main objective--restoration of vital public infrastructure--has been largely
achieved. Most of the restoration works have been completed. In all 768 civil works contracts
(including two contracts for procurement of removable bridges) with a total cost of Rs. 3,457 million
were implemented with IDA funding. Except for a few sub-projects (for which works costing about
Rs. 52 million spilled over beyond the closing date), all contracted works were completed by
December 31, 1997. The balance of works are being completed by the Government using its own
resources. These include the approaches of Kohala bridge on river Jhelum and the remaining work
on the restoration of three major slides in AJK. Reconstruction of two damaged bridges on river



- 4 -
Jhelum at Kaliari and Azad Pattan could, however, not be undertaken because of delays in
procurement by the National Highway Authority.
11.    Barring a few exceptions, the quality of the works was generally satisfactory and compared
favorably with similar works carried out by the implementing agencies under other programs. The
quality of workmanship achieved by national contractors on the major bridges conformed with
international standards. At end of the project, restored facilities were functioning satisfactorily. Two
restored flood protection facilities (Shahpur spur and a flood bund downstream of Ghazi Ghat Bridge
on the Indus river) were, however, damaged in Punjab during subsequent floods in 19961/ and are to
be restored.
12.    The benefits of the restoration works are already evident. In the Irrigation/Flood Protection
sub-sector, breached canals and damaged structures (weirs, barrages, regulators) have been repaired
and in some cases improved to better cope with future floods. Similarly, damaged roads, bridges,
and culverts have been restored and opened to traffic. Three major bridges, which provide vital links
between Azad Jammu and Kashmir and the rest of Pakistan, have been substantially completed.
Removable bridges procured under the project have provided the National Highway Authority
(NHA) with the capacity to respond quickly to emergencies and natural disasters. This equipment
was partly deployed in Balochistan to restore communication links damaged by flash floods in 1997.
Innovative designs were prepared and largely implemented for sustainable restoration of major slides
in AJK. More than 120 schools and Basic Health Units in AJK were repaired or rebuilt at safer sites.
13.   Environmental and Social Aspects: Sub-project selection criteria specifically excluded
works having adverse effects on natural ecosystems and the environment. For irrigation and
drainage structures, priority was accorded to works where beneficiaries were willing to carry out
complementary and supplementary works from their own resources. For flood control, priority was
given to works needed to protect against risk of future floods and river erosion of towns, rural
communities, agricultural lands, and where there was high risk of land erosion and other
environmental damage. Primary schools had to have the requisite number of teachers and high class
room occupancy.
Institution Building
14.    Exposure to Good Practices: The previous three IDA assisted flood damage restoration
projects were implemented primarily by GOP's Federal Flood Commission and the provincial
irrigation departments. These departments and the project consultants were fully familiar with IDA
requirements, which contributed to the successful implementation of the project. However, because
of the multi-sector coverage of this project, several government departments, including the
department of Communication and Works, Education and Health and the NIA were involved in its
implementation. This was the first flood restoration project covering AJK. Staff of these entities
were for the first time exposed to, and benefited from, Bank procedures and practices relating to
procurement (including use of improved bidding documents), requirements of good contract
management, establishment of quality control regimes, and improved financial management.
15.    Financial Management Study: A financial management study was carried out in 1995 to
respond to persistent delays that were being encountered in the submission of withdrawal
Inquiries carried out by Irrigation Department's Experts Committee indicated that the damage was not due to faulty
design or construction and was caused by sudden and major changes in river configuration.



-5 -
applications and annual audit reports. The study recommended measures, including improved record
keeping and controls, that helped improve the situation during the remaining project period.
16.   Preparation of Standard Designs for Suspension Bridges: The designs in use by AJK for
timber decked, lightweight suspension bridges, were reviewed by the supervisory consultants and a
manual was prepared for standard designs for different spans. All suspension bridges ( 27 in AJK
and 6 in NWFP) reconstructed under the project were designed to these standards. This manual
should prove to be a useful tool for future use as well.
17.   Innovative Designs for Restoration of Major Land Slides: A study was carried out on
nine major land slides in AJK, to propose innovative and sustainable slope stabilization measures.
These were problematic locations on the main road links which had historically required frequent
high cost maintenance interventions to keep these roads open to traffic. These innovative designs,
which included improved vegetation and drainage in the upper reaches of affected area plus concrete
toe walls anchored in underlying rock strata, were implemented as pilot schemes at three locations
under the project. Following the successful adoption of this approach, the Punjab Communication
and Works Department also carried out similar geological and engineering studies at problematic
landslide locations in soft rock areas of the Murree Hills, where annual precipitation is high.
18.   Project Costs: At appraisal the cost of the Part-I restoration program was estimated at
Rs. 9,930 million (US$397.2 million equivalent). This figure was based on the initial reports of the
implementing agencies and preliminary review by consultants, and was not precise. Of this amount,
works with estimated cost of Rs. 2,387 million (US$95.5 million equivalent) and Rs. 750 million
(US$30 million equivalent) were assigned to the Frontier Works Organization and the European
Community respectively for implementation outside the project. The remaining balance of Rs. 6,793
million (US$272 million equivalent) was to be implemented under the project. Following the 1994
floods the project scope was expanded to include selected restoration works resulting from the 1994
flood damages, with an estimated cost of Rs. 850 million (US$25 million equivalent). At
completion, the total cost of the restoration works carried out under the project was Rs. 6,888.41
million (US$195.5 million equivalent) with the following distribution amongst the co-financiers:
Cofinancier          Cost of works completed          US$            Percentage
(Rs. Million) I/    (Million Equivalent) l'
IDA assisted (768 contracts
covering 1992 and 1994                3,580                   100.2             51%
damages)
ADB assisted (1,122 contracts
covering mainly the 1992              2,923                   84.0              43%
damages)
KfW assisted (91 contracts
covering 1992 and 1994                 377                    11.1               6%
damages)
GOP (reserved procurement)               8 '                   0.2              0%
Total                          6,888                   195.5            100%
Figures include GOP counter-part contribution.
'   Cost of supervisory consultants' 4 months from January 1998 to April 1998.



- 6 -
19.   Because of the devaluation of the Pakistani Rupee and non-award of some contracts due to
procurement delays, the IDA Credit and ADB loans were not full utilized. SDR 3.8 million were
canceled from the IDA Credit on August 6, 1997, and SDR 3.68 million on December 31, 1997. A
further amount of SDR 2.72 million was canceled in the first week of June, 1998, giving a total
cancellation of SDR 10.2 million.
20.   Economic Analysis: As is customary for emergency projects involving restoration of
damaged infrastructure, economic analysis was not undertaken at the time of appraisal. During
implementation, economic analyses were, however, carried out for sub-projects involving major
design improvements. The ERRs of such sub-projects were generally above 15 percent and in some
cases were as high as 27 percent.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
21.   Adverse Security Situation: A period of hostilities along the line of control in Neelam
Valley in AJK, delayed reconstruction of several suspension bridges and other facilities. The closing
date for these sub-projects was selectively extended by a year, to December 1997.
22.   Delay in Establishment of Special Accounts: In 1993, GOP and the Bank agreed on
revised procedures for establishing and operating special accounts. The revised procedures, however,
did not become operational until about October 1993. Consequently, the project special accounts did
not become operational until the end of 1993, causing cash flow problems.
23.   Inadequate Arrangements for Flow of Funds to Field Offices: The project provided only
one Special Account per province (managed by the PCs), even though there were multiple
implementing agencies in each province. It was assumed that the PCs would meet the funding
requirements of all implementing agencies equitably. This assumption proved to be unrealistic.
Field Offices of lAs were slow in submitting documentation required in support of withdrawal
applications. Although IDA was disbursing mostly against SOEs, the PCs needed the documentation
for their records, before claiming replenishments. The project funding requirements peaked during
the middle and later years as project implementation gathered momentum. It was during this period
that the initial SA advances fell short of requirements. Whenever funds fell short, the PCs generally
gave priority to meeting the funding needs of their own departments over that of other
departments/LAs. The result was that lAs not operating the Special Accounts were forced to seek
bridge financing to pre-finance project expenditures. Because of the tight fiscal situation generally
prevailing at the federal and provincial government levels, bridge financing was often not available
when needed.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
24.   Delay in Procurement of Vehicles: Because of various reasons procurement of vehicles
was significantly delayed. As a result, the consultants were not fully mobilized until March 1994.
25.   Inadequate Bridge Financing: Delays in providing bridge-financing adversely affected
progress for most of the project period. The need for bridge financing arose in part due to: (i) late



-7-
submission by implementing agencies of documentation required for preparing withdrawal
applications by the PCs; and (ii) inadequate amounts of advance deposits in the special accounts.
However, IDA could not enhance the amount of these advances because of inefficient management
of special accounts.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
26.   Non-familiarity with IDA Procedures:  The IDA component of the project involved
thirteen implementing agencies4-. Many of these, particularly those from AJK, did not have past
experience of implementing Bank assisted projects. IDA supervision missions as well as the
supervisory consultants organized several workshops and training sessions for the project staff on
sub-project eligibility and selection criteria, procurement and disbursement procedures, and contract
management. Even so, it took time for field staff to become fully familiar with the project and IDA
procedures, which resulted in start-up delays. The situation, however, improved gradually over the
project period.
27.   Inadequate Progress Monitoring by PCs: Except for Balochistan, all provinces appointed
part-time PCs. Partly due to this arrangement, the PCs could not effectively monitor progress and
take corrective actions in a timely manner. After the mid-term review in 1994, all provinces
appointed full-time PCs. Even so, the PCs had little control over the implementing agencies and
implementation issues often persisted.
28.   Inadequate Preparation of Sub-projects: The quality of sub-project preparation by the
implementing agencies was generally poor, particularly during the early project period. The
proposals were often prepared at the lowest levels in the departments, and not reviewed by senior
staff. This resulted in the proposals having to be revised and resubmitted, leading to slow progress.
This issue was addressed by introducing detailed guidelines and a standard format and by enhancing
the consultants role in sub-project preparation.
29.   High Staff Turnover: Frequent transfers of PCs and field staff adversely affected sub-
project preparation and implementation. Sindh was the worst affected by this factor (PCs were
changed nine times) followed by NWFP and AJK. The situation in AJK improved after the GOAJK
adopted a 'project approach' and appointed a full time Chief Engineer to oversee project activities.
30.    Slow Filing of Expenditure Documentation:  Field Offices were particularly slow in
providing procurement documentation and expenditure statements required for filing withdrawal
applications. As a result, replenishment of special accounts was often slow, causing casr
problems and in some cases delayed payments to contractors.
31.   Procurement Delays:  Time elapsed between approval of sub-projects and aware
contracts was much more than the norm of three months, even for small contracts awarded on ti.
basis of national competitive bidding. At the end of 1994, nearly 50 percent of contract awards were
being delayed by three months or more. The situation improved after IDA in agreement with GOP
and GOProvinces fixed cut-off dates for award of contracts.
4i  In AJK: C&W, Educ. & Health; in Baloch: Irr.; in NWF: lrr. & C&W; in Punjab: Irr., C&W & Health; in Sindh: Irr.
& C&W; NHA and FFC were involved in project implementation.



- 8 -
32.   Contract Management: Overall contract management performance remained generally
weak. Intensive monitoring by IDA supervision missions helped improve the situation. Even so,
some 13 percent of the contracts encountered completion delays of six months or more, while five
percent faced completion delays of more than one year. 48 contracts costing Rs. 182 million, had to
be foreclosed at the end of 1996, due to extremely slovv pace of implementation. Causes of
completion delays included weak contractor performance, delayed payments, lack of regular
monitoring by senior departmental staff, lack of timely imposition of contractual remedies, etc.
Factors which Turned Around Project Performance
33.    The project's successful outcome was primarily attributable to: (i) a flexible sectoral plus
"demand-driven" design that did not predetermine provincial or agency shares, and instead
encouraged competition for project resources by allowing access to the Credit on a 'first-come-first-
served' basis; (ii) continued IDA funding for sub-projects being made conditional on satisfactory
implementation agency performance; (iii) good coordination, follow-up and implementation support
by the supervisory consultants; and (iv) pro-active and continuous supervision by easily accessible
IDA field office-based staff, located close to the Client.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34.    Project Outputs:  Effective operation of flood monitoring systems, both within Pakistan
and in collaboration with India is essential for the sustained operation of restored structures. Early
warning systems can play a major role in reducing future flood damage. Improvement of flood
mitigation measures, including an upgraded and improved telemetry system and complementary
technical assistance were included under ADB's Flood Sector Improvement Project. Hence no
components for flood mitigation were included in the IDA component. It was recognized that the
works undertaken under the project would have little impact on the overall risk of future damage
during similar major floods. However, the restoration works have included appropriate design
improvements wherever warranted.
35.    Future Maintenance: The facilities restored under the project are relatively new and are
expected to require only limited maintenance during the next few years. They are a small part of
large inventories of infrastructure operated and maintained by the project implementing agencies. A
key requirement for sustainability is a steady O&M regime backed by a reliable source of funding.
Currently, all implementing agencies receive budgetary allocations from the governments' recurrent
budget for O&M. The severe financial constraints faced by the federal and provincial governments
have adversely affected the O&M allocations for most departments. In general, during the past five
years, routine maintenance has been limited to prioritized programs. Budgetary allocations for O&M
for some sectors have been nominally increased by 7 percent annually, which meant a decrease in
real terms. As part of the Post-completion Operational Plan, the government has proposed a program
for improving O&M, which includes institutional changes (greater involvement of
users/beneficiaries) and measures for improving cost recovery. Effective implementation of the plan
should lead to improved O&M of the infrastructure and better prospects of sustainability over the
medium term.



- 9 -
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
36.    The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was highly
satisfactory. The Bank's Islamabad Office started monitoring the flood damages and coordinating
with other potential co-financiers, immediately following the flood event. The Bank also agreed to
GOP's request to immediately field consultants working on an ongoing Bank assisted project to carry
out baseline surveys of the flood damages. The Bank fielded an appraisal mission, jointly with ADB,
in October 1992, immediately following GOP's request for assistance in late September. The Bank
agreed to the appointment of a national consulting firm as the project supervisory consultants on a
single source basis to respond to the urgency of the situation. The sectoral approach to the project
design was appropriate and provided flexibility in implementation. The implementation
arrangements proposed were also generally satisfactory. There was however, a weakness in the
disbursement arrangements as only one special account was provided for each of the four provinces
and AJK. This has been discussed earlier in the report. ADB, on the other hand, provided separate
imprest accounts for each implementing agency in each province. This decentralized disbursement
arrangement appears to have worked better.
Project Supervision
37.    The Bank's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. The Bank's
supervision efforts included missions as well as continuous implementation assistance. Project
launch workshops were organized in all provinces in early 1994. Formal supervision missions were
conducted twice a year. Between missions, the task leaders who were located at the Islamabad
office, monitored progress and provided on-the-spot guidance which generally pioved quite helpful
in addressing implementation issues. Besides monitoring implementation progress ancl program
achievements, Bank missions addressed issues related to construction quality, contract management,
budgeting, funding needs, etc.
38.   The Bank introduced innovative measures to facilitate timely project completion,
responding to the challenges arising from decentralized implementation by a large number of
agencies. These included cut-off dates for award of contracts and various measures to improve
contract management. The latter included discontinuing disbursements for contracts delayed by
more than six months, and allowing only those agencies to award further contracts that had
demonstrated reasonable contract management performance. These measures helped to clean up the
portfolios.
39.   An in-depth mid-term review (MTR) was carried out in close collaboration with the
borrower and implementing agencies in early 1995. During the MTR the project scope was adjusted
to include restoration of critical works resulting from the second wave of floods which hit Pakistan
during project implementation in 1994. The MTR also developed detailed criteria for prioritizing the
restoration works resulting from the 1994 flood damages.
40.   Donor Coordination: The project was a good example of cooperation between IDA and the
other co-financiers, particularly ADB, in terms of project formulation and design. The financing
arrangements (i.e., allocating administrative units to only one donor) also facilitated project
implementation.



- 10 -
F. BORROWERS PERFORMANCE
Identification and Preparation
41.   The borrower's performance during project identification and preparation was satisfactory.
GOP promptly prepared a preliminary report on the flood damages and immediately sought
assistance from the Bank, ADB and other potential donors. The project PC-I (GOP's internal
document for authorizing project expenditures) was prepared within a record period of one week and
necessary approvals were granted quickly.
Implementation
42.   The overall performance of the borrower and the implementation agencies was broadly
satisfactory compared to the performance on other (GOP financed) projects.
43.    Contract Management: The project suffered from the poor contract management practices
endemic in Pakistan's public works sectors. Field officers in general did not have the mind-set,
training or monitoring systems necessary to ensure timely contract completion. Payments to
contractors were often delayed, because of slow processing of interim certificates and shortage of
bridge financing. However, local contractors seldom claimed compensation for delayed payments.
Similarly, project implementing agencies rarely enforced contractual remedies for delays caused by
contractors. The project raised awareness of these issues by intensive monitoring and setting
relatively high contract management standards.
44.   Compliance with Covenant:  Audits reports were frequently delayed and generally
submitted after reminders and warnings from the Bank. However, there were no audit reports due
and outstanding at the time of finalization of this report.
45.    Consultant's Performance:  The performance of the supervisory consultants was
satisfactory. They assisted the borrower and cofinanciers in identifying issues affecting progress;
certified quality and quantity of works; and assisted the co-financiers in carrying out post-
procurement reviews. They performed the "Engineer's" role in the construction of major bridges.
They also carried out an extensive geological study of nine major slides in AJK, and proposed
innovative remedial measures, which were piloted on three of these slides under the project.
46.   Progress Monitoring and Oversight:  Progress monitoring by the PCs was only partly
effective, primarily because they had little control over the implementing agencies. Progress reports
from the field offices were invariably delayed and often incomplete. The provincial governments in
general did not link release of funds to progress. High level and regular monitoring of the project
was started by the Projects Wing of GOP's Planning Commission in 1994. Periodic Progress
Review Meetings were held by the Deputy Chairman Planning Commission. These meetings proved
particularly effective in addressing bridge financing and related cash flow problems.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
47.   The project has achieved its main objective of restoring vital infrastructure destroyed or
damaged in the 1992 and 1994 Floods. The rehabilitated facilities are expected to better cope with
similar floods in future. Thus the overall outcome is rated satisfactory.



H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
48.    The project implementing agencies are also responsible for operating and maintaining the
infrastructure facilities restored under the project, as part of their normal functions. Currently O&M
is deficient. However, this is a generic issue affecting most sectors of the economy. The main
reasons for deficient O&M are: (i) inadequate allocation of O&M funds due to resource constraints
and diversion of available resources to new capital investments; (ii) inadequate maintenance
management (prioritization, planning and monitoring of routine and preventive maintenance); and
(iii) lack of beneficiary participation, low cost recovery and poor accountability towards users.
49.    The project implementing agencies have prepared a Post-completion Operation Plan (PCOP)
a summary of which is attached to the borrower's evaluation report. The complete PCOP is available
in the project files. The PCOP seeks to improve O&M as follows. In the irrigation, drainage and
flood protection sector, O&M issues are to addressed as part of the institutional reforms initiated
under the National Drainage Program Project. O&M responsibility will be decentralized to farmer
organization at the distributary canal level; autonomous Area Water Boards at the main canal level,
and Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authorities at the main canal level. These organizations are
expected to become financially self sustaining over a period of seven to ten years and to improve
O&M through cost reductions, improved cost recovery and greater farmer involvement in
management. In the roads sector, innovative arrangements are being developed as part of the
proposed Highway Rehabilitation project for the progressive commercialization of roads and
mobilization of resources for O&M through user charges. Effective implementation of the proposed
PCOP will require political will and commitment to ensure the sustainability and efficient operation
of the rehabilitated infrastructure assets over the medium term.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
50.   The following key lessons have been learned:
(i)   Flexible and demand-driven design, appropriate "macro" indicators for monitoring
implementation performance, and performance-based eligibility criteria are
appropriate for emergency/restoration type projects involving multiple implementing
agencies.
(ii)   Proactive supervision and stringent application of efficiency criteria in procurement
and contract administration help improve borrower/agency implementation
performance.
(iii) Regular high level oversight of project implementation by provincial and federal
authorities, coupled with good coordination and implementation support by the
supervisory consultants is important for successful project implementation.
(iv)   Financing and disbursement arrangements require careful design, particularly where
projects involve decentralized implementation by multiple agencies. Also, effective
financial management systems should be in place before project startup. Such
projects should be candidates for introducing the Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI).



- 12 -
(v)    Full time Project Coordinators at the provincial and agency levels, with appropriate
powers to address and resolve implementation bottlenecks, would improve borrower
performance.
(vi)   Projects involving extensive contract administration should provide for training of
implementing agency staff in modem contract management techniques.



- 13 -
PART-1I
Statistical Tables
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:     Project Costs
Table 8B:     Project Financing
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions



-14-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives           Substantial    Partial    Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                        U            U             U                E
Sector policies                       U            0             U1               U
Financial objectives                  0             l            U                U
Institutional development             U            0             U                U
Physical objectives                   RI           U             U                U
Poverty reduction                     U            U             U                E0
Gender issues                         U            U             U                0
Other social objectives               0            U             U                U
Environmental objectives              0            C             U                U
Public sector management              U            0             U                U
Private sector development            U            U             U                0
Other (specify) Restoration of        0                          U                U
Economic Infrastructure
B.  Project sustainability                Likely     Unlikely     Uncertain
0           U             U
C.  Bank performance                     Highly
satisfctor    Satisifctor    Deficient
Identification                        0              U            U
Preparation assistance                0              O]           U
Appraisal                             U              0            Ul
Supervision                           U             l0            U
D.  Borrower performance                 Highly
satisfacrv    Satisfactar    Deficient
Preparation                           U             0             UO
Implementation                        U             0             U
Covenant compliance                   U             0             U
Operation (if applicable)             U             U             U
E.  Assessment of outcome                Highly                                      Highly
satisfacto   Satisfactoy   Unsatisfactry  unsatisfactory
U             0             U               U



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credit
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose                     Year of   Status
approval
Proceedings Operations
1.   1973 Flood             To assist the Government's    1974    Completed
Rehabilitation Program.   flood rehabilitation program.
(Cr. 466-PAK)
2.,  The 1976 Flood Damage  To restore public infrastructure    1976    Completed
Restoration Project    damaged by floods
(Cr. 683-PAK)
3.   Third Highway Project    Rehabilitation of three major  1979    Completed
(Cr. 974-PAK)          sections (269 Km) of N5, and
improvement of a provincial
road (29 Km) in NWFP
4.  Irrigation systems      To increase agricultural       1982   PCR No. 8794, June 1990
Rehabilitation Project    production by improved
(Cr. 1239-PAK)         reliability and distribution of
water supplies, reduce crop
losses from rain flooding, and
strengthen PIDs O&M
capability.
5.   Second Irrigation      To increase agricultural       1988    Completed
Systems Rehabilitation    production, provide more           PCR No. 16007
Project (Cr. 1888-PAK)  reliable and equitable irrigation
water supply and strengthen the
operation and maintenance
capabilities of the irrigation
departments
6.   1988 Flood Damage      To assist GOP in rehabilitating  1989    Completed
Restoration Project    selected flood damaged                PCR No. 11850
(Cr. 2003-PAK)         irrigation, drainage and flood
protection works and roads
7.   Transport Sector Loan    Rehabilitation, resurfacing and  1990    Closing date June 30, 1998
(Ln.3241-PAK)          strengthening of 800 Kms of
National Highways
Following Operations
8.   None



- 16-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned             Date Actual
Identification / Preparation                                                September 1992
Appraisal                                         --                        October 1992
Board Presentation                                01/1993                   March 04, 1993
Signing                                           --                        May 19, 1993
Effectiveness                                                               July29, 1993
Project Completion                                December 31, 1996         December 31, 1997
Loan Closing                                      December 31, 1996         December 31, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative and Actual
(figures in million US$)
.___________________________    FY94        FY95       FY96       FY97              FY98
Appraisal estimate                         30.00      65.00      90.00     100.00
Actual                                      15.24     29.73      50.57      81.35             89.57
Actual as % of estimate                     50.80     45.74      56.19      81.35             N.A.
1'    December 31,1996, was the original closing date which was extended to December 31, 1997, for contracts relating
to 1994 flood damages and selected 1992 damage contracts.



- 17 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Financial Progress
(IDA Assisted Components)
Component/Category                     Original Estimate              Actual Achievement
Rs. Million                     Rs. Million
Civil Works (1992 & 1994                      3,400                           3,197
damages)
Removable bridges"7                             125                             178
Technical Assistance                             80                             133
Total                             3,605                            3,508 2'
"       Excluding import duties and inland transportation.
21      Excluding expenditure of Rs. 72 million for civil works not entertained by IDA because of delayed submission
of the withdrawal applications.
Table 6: Key Indicators of Project Operation
(Not applicable)
The project did support construction of new works. However, the Government intends to use the following general indicators to
monitor overall operation and maintenance operations.
1. Adequacy of preventive periodic maintenance reflected by adequacy of O&M Funding. Yardsticks are being
developed for various Sectors under on going Programs.
2. Adequacy of institutional arrangements for operation and maintenance. Institutional reforms are underway in
Irrigation and Drainage sectors
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
(Not applicable")
While no formal studies were included in the project scope, various studies were carried out as part of sub-
project preparation works, including hydraulic modeling studies for design of flood protection facilities and
geo-technical studies for slope stabilization for major slides.



-18-
Table 8A: Project Cost
Sr.                                           Million US$                        Million US $
No             Item No.                    Appraisal Estimate                       Actual
Local   Foreign       Total        Local    Foreign       Total
Costs     Cost                     Cost       Cost
I    Roads and Bridges              151.30    99.40       250.70       62.11      40.80       102.91
2    Irrigation and Flood Control   65.30     16.30        81.60        53.61     13.39        67.00
3    Schools/Health Facilities      55.60     2.90         58.50        18.00      0.94        18.94
4    Consultant                      5.20      1.20        6.40         5.42       1.26        6.68
Total Project Cost (1992      277.40    119.80       397.20       139.14     56.39       195.53
damages) as estimated at
appraisal                                                   _
5.   Estimated cost of 1994 damages    20.0   5.00         25.0          -          I      
6.   Less works assigned to:
FWO        (71.25)   (23.75)     (95.50)
European Community      (22.50)   (7.50)       (30.00)                                -
Adjusted Total Project Cost   183.65    88.55       296.70       139.14     56.39        195.53
Expenditures on 1994 damage restoration works are included in items I and 2.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Sr.            Source.                        Million US$                        Million US S
No                                         Appraisal Estimate                       Actual
Local   Foreign       Total        Local    Foreign       Total
Costs     Cost                     Cost       Cost
1    IDA (1992 FDRP)                65.80     34.20       100.00       63.74      25.83        89.57
2    IDA/IBRD (Existing Portfolio)  36.70     13.30        50.00         V          if           V
3    ADB                            64.00     36.00       100.00        54.02     21.90        75.92
4    GOPakistan/Other Donors        110.90    36.30       147.20        21.38      8.66        30.04
(K fW )                      _  _  _     _  _ _  _  _  _          _  _  _  _  _  _     _  _  _  _
Total:  277.40    119.80       397.20       139.14     56.39       195.53
Expenditures reported separately under the respective projects.



-19-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
As is customary for emergency operations involving restoration of infrastructure facilities, economic analysis was
not carried out at appraisal. During implementation, however, economic analysis was carried for works involving
substantial design improvements. The ERRs of such sub-projects were generally above 15 percent and in some cases
were as high as 27 percent.
Table 10 : Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section          Covenant    Present    Original         Revised       Description of Covenant                           Comments
type         Status      fulfillment    fulfillment
date          date
DCA           2.02 (b)        03           C                                        FFC. GOP provinces, and NHA to open Special       OK. FFC decided to do without a
Account in USS in the National Bank of Pakistan on    special account.
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
3.01 (b)       05           C                                        Designated agencies to be responsible for project  Designated agencies
Sch. 4                                                               implementation and FFC to provide overall         implementing the project and
Paras. I and                                                         coordination and monitoring.                       FFC  coordinated antd monitored.
2
3.01 (b)       10           C                                        Each Implementing Agency to follow agreed sub-     Implementing agencies complied
Sch. 4,                                                              project selection criteria; obtain IDA's prior approval   with this covenant.
Para. 3                                                              for subprojects costing above USS I m, and those
involving involuntary resettlement; follow restoration
standards satisfactory to the Assocn; and carry out
preconstruction surveys; (b) FFC to ensure that to the
extent practicable, the Credit and the ADB loan are
committed uniformly.
3.01 (b)       05           C                                        Each Implementing Agency to maintain a separate    Separate files were maintained by
Sch. 4,                                                              file for each restoration subproject. Including info on    the supervisory consultants for
Parm 4                                                               pre-restoration surveys, procurement documents,    each subproject.
supervision notes etc.,; and make them available to
the Associadton representatives.
3.01 (b)       11, 12       CP                                       Each Implementing Agency to be responsible for 0 &    There are major shortfalls in
Sch. 4,                                                              M of restored facilities.                         budgetary allocations for 0 & M
Para 5                                                                                                                 (50% of estimated requirement).
This is a generic cross sector
issue. The implementing
agencies have prepared draft post
completion 0 & M plans with
indications of 0 & M budgetary
requirements. These issues are
being addressed under the
National Drainage Program for
the Irrigation/Drainage sector,
and the proposed Highway
Rehabilitation project for the
roads sector.
3.01 (b)       09           C                                        FFC to submit quarterly and annual progress reports    An agreed fonrat for the progress
Sch 4, Para 6                                                        in form and substance satisfactory to IDA.        reports was followed.
3.01 (b)       09            C          05/31/1994     12/31/1994    FFC to carry out amid-tent review of the project and   OK. MTR carried out in Dec.
Sch. 4,                                                              make appropriate adjustments, if necessary, in    94/January 95.
Para 7                                                               consultation with the Implementing Agencies and
IDA.
3.01 (c)       03           C                                        GOP to make the Credit proceeds available to FFC,  Complied with.
NHA, GOP provinces and AJK.
4.01 (a), (b)    01,03      C                                        FFC and each Implementing Agency to maintain      Complied with . A financial
records and accounts of receipts and expenditures  management consultant was
made on the project in accordance with sound      fielded in 1995 for setting-up
accountng practices.                              consolidated accounts at the
l_________  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ Provincial  levels.



-20.
4.01 (c)       01          CD                                      FFC and each Implemendng Agency to have their   All due audit reports have been
accounts (including special accounts) audited by  received except for the FFC.
independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, and submit    SOEs are not involved.
to IDA, audit reports, including a separste opinion of
the auditors on SOEs, no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year.
PA           2.01 (a)       03           C                                      FFC, NHA GOProvinces, and NHA to open Special    OK. FFC decided to do without a
Account in USS in the National Bank of Pakistan on    special account.
terms and condidons satisfactory to the Association.
2.01 (b)      05           C                                      Designated agencies to be responsible for project  Designated agencies
implementation and FFC to provide overall       implemented the project and FFC
coordination and monitoring.                    coordinated and monitored.
2.01 (b)       10          C                                      (a) Each Implementing Agency to follow agreed sub-   Implementing agencies complied
project selection criteria; obtain IDA's prior approval   with this covenant.
for subprojects costing above USS I m, and those
involving involuntary resettlement; follow restoration
standard satisfactory to the Assocn; and carry out
preconstruction surveys. (b) FFC to ensure that to the
extent practicable, the Credit and the ADB loan are
_commited uniformly-
2.01 (b)       05          C                                       Each implemending Agency to maintain a separate  Separate files were maintained by
file for each restoration subproject including info on    the supervisory consultants for
prerestoration surveys, procurement documents,  each subproject.
supervision notes etc.,; and make them available to
the Association representadves.
2.01 (b)       11, 12      CP                                     Each Implemendng Agency to be responsible for 0  There are major shortfalls in
& M of restored facilities.                     budgetary allocations for
0 & M .This is a generic cross
sector issue. The implementing
agencies have prepared draft post
completion 0 & M plans with
indications of O & M budgetary
requirements. These issues are
being addressed under the
National Drainage Program for
the Irrigation/Drainage sector and
the Proposed Highway
Rehabilitation Project for the
___________  ___________   _________________________________________ roads    sector.
2.01 (b)      09           C                                       FFC to submit quarterly and annual progress reports    An agreed format for the progress
in form and substance satisfactory to IDA.      reports was followed.
2.01 (b)      09           C           05/31/1994                  FFC to carry out a mid-term review of the project and   OK. MTR carried out in
make appropriate adjustments, if necessary, in  December 94/January 95.
consultadon with the Implementing Agencies and
IDA.                                                            _
3.01 (a) (b)    01, 03     C                                       FFC and each Implementing Agency to maintain    Complied with. A financial
records and accounts of receipts and expenditures  management consultant was
made on the project in accordance with sound    fielded for setting-up
accounting pracices.                            consolidated accounts at the
Provincial level.
3.01 (c)      01           CD                                     FFC. and each Implemendng Agency to have their   All due audit reports have been
accounts (including special accounts) audited by  received except for the FY97
independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, and submit   report for FFC. SOEs are not
to IDA, audit reports, including a separate opinion of   involved.
the auditors on SOEs, no later than six months after
the end of fiscal year.
Cgvenant TYs sI- Accounts/Audit; 2- Financial performance; 3 - Flow and Utlizaton of project funds; 4-Counterpart funding; 5- Management aspects of the project;
6 - Environmental covenants; 7- Involuntary resettlement; 8- Indigenous people; 9- Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 - Implementation; II- Resource allocation;
12- Regulatory/insdtudonal action; and 13 - Other
StaMi: C - Complied with; CD Compliance after Delay; NC - Not Complied with; SOON- Compliance Expected in Reasonable Short Time; CP - Complied with Parially; NYD - Not Yet Due



- 21 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                 Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No deviations from applicable operational manual statements were noted
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                   Actual
Stage of project cycle           Weeks 1 US$ (000)    Weeks   US$ (000)  Staff Weeks   US$ (000)
Preparation to appraisal                                --                 --           56.0       120.5
Appraisal                                                                               25.9        54.9
Negotiations through                                                                     4.9        13.1
Board approval
Supervision                                                                            130.2        96.9
Completion                          11.8         16.0       11.8         16.0
TOTAL                                 --          --          --           --
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of project     Month/    Number    Days in   Specialized   Implem-  Develop-   Type of
cycle            year          of         field     staff skills   entation    ment      problem
persons                               status    objective
Through appraisal       10/92         17          23       IE,PA,CO,
HE, ES,
FMS,
DA,SA
Appraisal through             -              -           -                  -           -
Board approval
Supervision          11/93            3           36       IE,HE,EE         2           1
09/94            4           19       IE,HE,DA,        U          S
CE
01/95            3           40       IE,HE,CE         U          S
10/95            3           32       IE,HE,DA         S          S
07/96            4           21      IE,HE,CE,         S          S
DA
03/97            6           37      IE,HE,CE,         S          S
DA, SA
Completion                                                IE,HE,CE,         S          S
12/97            5           36          DA
Key: PA: Project Advisor; EC: Economist; CO: Counsel; IE: Irrigation Engineer
HE: Highway Engineer; ES: Education specialist; CE : Civil Engineer; DA: Disbursement Analyst; SA: Staff Assistant; FMS: Financial
Management Specialist. Ratings: I=Minor or no problems; 2= Minor problems, S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory



- 22 -
APPENDIX-A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE



- 23 -
Appendix A
PAKISTAN
1992 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2468-PAK)
IDA Review Mission
November 10 - December 15,1997
AIDE-MEMOIRE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.     An IDA missioni/ reviewed the progress of the above Project during November 10 to
December 15, 1997. This was the final supervision and ICR mission for the Project, which closes on
Dec. 31, 1997. Its main objectives were to: (i) assess degree of completion of the project physical
works and achievement of project objectives; (ii) estimate Government resources required to
complete any unfinished contracts and agree on actions to bring such contracts to an orderly closure;
(iii) review status of covenant compliance, implementation of actions agreed during the March 1997
mission, and adequacy of counterpart funds provided during FY 97/98; (iv) seek adjustment of
remaining Special Account balances; (v) review the Operation Plans prepared by the implementing
agencies; and (vi) provide clarifications on the ICR process and agree on a schedule for ICR
preparation.
2.     The mission visited sub-project sites in Punjab, Sindh, NWFP, and Azad Jammu and
Kashmir (AJK) (Ref. to Annex. 2 for the field visit itinerary), and held detailed discussions with the
Project Coordinators of AJK, National Highway Authority (NHA) and all GoProvinces as well as
with supervisory consultants on all aspects of project implementation. The mission's field visit to
Sindh had to be cut short because of the security situation.
3.     The mission's aide-memoire was discussed with the Government and implementing agency
representatives at a wrap-up meeting chaired by the Federal Coordinator at the Federal Flood
Commission (Ministry of Water and Power) on Dec. 11, 1997. It is structured as follows:
--  Section I:     Introduction
--  Section 11:    Project Objectives and Main Components
--  Section III:   Mission Findings, Recommendations and Agreed Actions
List of Annexes:
Annex 1:       Key Performance Indicators:
Table A:         Current and Projected Financial Progress
Table B:         Year wise Actual and Projected Financial Progress
Annex 2        Contract Management Performance
Annex 3-8:     Provincial Summaries (AJK, Balochistan, NHA, NWFP, Punjab, and Sindh)
Annex 9:       Estimate of Savings from the IDA Credit
Annex 10:      Guidelines on Borrower Evaluation
Annex 11:      Field visit itinerary
The mission comprised Messrs. Usman Qamar, Navaid A. Qureshi (co-mission leaders), Riaz Mahmood, N.l.Dodhy
and Ahsam Arshad.



- 24 -
4.     The mission's findings and recommendations presented here apply to the project components
assisted by IDA. It is confirmed by IDA Management.
5.     We are grateful to the Government, all the officials met and the supervisory consultants for
their cooperation and courtesies extended during the mission.
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES & DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives & Description: The main objective of the project was to assist the
Government in implementing a national program to restore vital infrastructure destroyed or damaged
during the 19926' floods, in order to minimize disruption to economic activity and social services.
The project comprised a multi-year time slice of the Government's program to restore flood-damaged
public infrastructure. The program covers: (Part-I) repair and restoration of federal and provincial
infrastructure, including roads and bridges; irrigation, drainage and flood protection works; and
primary education and health facilities; and (Part-II) restoration of railways, power and
telecommunication infrastructure. Part-I is being implemented with donor assistance, while Part-II is
funded by the Government.
III. SUMMARY OF MAIN FINDINGS & RECOMMENDATIONS
Overview
6.    Satisfactory Overall Progress: The project continues to make good  progress and the
achievements are close to the projections made during the last mission. Disbursements have reached
84 percent (SDR 58.1 million) of the current Credit amount. Annex 1 shows the current and
projected status of the project's Key Performance Indicators. The following main achievements
are note worthy:
7.    Financial Progress: (i) as of September 30, 1997, the overall financial progress was 93
percent of the estimated cost of completion of ongoing and completed contracts (97 percent for 1992
damages and 82 percent for 1994 damages); (ii) overall financial progress is expected to reach 98
percent by December 31, 1997; and (iii) financial progress on the ADB and KfW assisted
components, which include the 1992 damages only, was about 90 percent, as of September 30, 1997.
8.    Physical progress and project benefits:  Except for certain works with estimated cost
Rs. 52 million (Punjab C&W Rs. 12 million; Sindh Irrigation Rs. 17 million; AJK C&W Rs. 6
million; and NHA 17 million), all remaining contracted works are expected to be fully completed by
December 31, 1997. Project benefits are already evident. For example, in the Irrigation/Flood
Protection subsector, numerous breached canals and damaged structures (weirs, barrages, regulators)
have been repaired and irrigation deliveries have been restored. Breached flood protection bunds
and river training facilities have been repaired/improved to better cope with possible future floods.
Similarly, in the Roads subsector, numerous damaged roads, bridges, and culverts have been restored
and opened to traffic. Substantial completion of three major bridges, which provide vital links
between Pakistan and Azad Jammu and Kashmir, is now in sight. Innovative designs have been
The legal documents were amended in September 1995 to include part of the high priority 1994 rain and flood damages
in the IDA project



-25 -
prepared for sustainable restoration of major slides in AJK and this work will be largely completed
by the closing date. Finally in the Schools, and Health subsectors, over 120 schools and several
Basic Health Units have been repaired, or rebuilt at safer sites, and are now functional. The project
objectives have been largely achieved.
9.    Actions Agreed During the March 1997 Mission: Most of the agreed actions have been
completed. Issues that remain to be fully addressed include: the need for release of additional bridge
,financing by GOPunjab, GoNWFP and GoAJK; and completion of critical incomplete 1992 damage
restoration works by GoAJK, Balochistan, Sindh and Punjab.
Issues, Agreements Reached, and Recommendations
10.   The project will close on Dec. 31 1997, following a selective one-year extension. In view of
the approaching Closing Date, the Government should address the following issues urgently:
Financial Issues
* Need for "Bridge financing": The IDA Special Accounts have been almost fully adjusted.
Therefore, the Government must pre-finance remaining project expenditures from its own resources.
We estimate the following additional bridge financing which the Government needs to provide
during the remainder of FY97/98 (Ref; Annexes 3 to 8). Figures in million Rs.
C&W
Punjab               38
NWFP                  12
AJK                  35
Total                85
Disbursement Related
*  Disbursements for the extended Contracts: The Federal Coordinator should send a request to
IDA for accepting withdrawal applications up to April 30, 1998, for eligible expenditures incurred up
to the Credit Closing Date of Dec. 31, 1997. Thereafter, implementing agencies should note that:
*  IDA  will disburse for eligible expenditures incurred (paid or accrued) up to
December 31, 1997. Expenditures incurred after this date will have to be borne by the
Government.
*  For the extended contracts that remain incomplete on December 31, 1997, IDA will
disburse only for those completed components that can stand alone and serve the purpose
for which they were intended.
*  IDA will disburse against retention moneys that became due for payment on or before
December 31, 1997.
*  Withdrawal applications must reach the IDA Resident Mission by April 15, 1998 so that
they could be processed before the terminal date of April 30, 1998 for receiving
withdrawal applications at IDA headquarters.
*     IDA Special Accounts (SAs):  SA advances to GoNWF and Balochistan stand fully
recovered. Small balances remain to be adjusted in the AJK, NHA and Punjab SAs. The respective
Provincial Coordinators have indicated that they will utilize these remaining amounts and submit



- 26 -
applications for the total adjustment of the SAs by December 31, 1997. The mission pointed out that
Sindh has a large outstanding SA advance of US$ 215,858.38. It was agreed that the Sindh
Provincial Coordinator would reimburse GoSindh against eligible expenditures incurred from
government resources and submit a replenishment application to IDA, fully adjusting the outstanding
advance by December 31, 1997. Alternatively, PCs were asked to reimburse any outstanding
balances to IDA by this date.
$     Statements of Expenditures (SOE) Review: The mission carried out random spot checks
of documentation maintained by the supervisory consultants in support of withdrawal applications
submitted on the basis of SOEs, and found them generally satisfactory. Exceptions are indicated in
the respective annexes.
*     Audit Reports: FY 1996-97 audit reports for all implementing agencies are due to be
provided to IDA by December 31, 1997. The mission was informed that audits have been completed
for NWF, Balochistan Punjab and AJK. The concerned PPCs are requested to follow up with the
offices of the respective Director General Audit (Works) and to provide copies of their audit reports
for IDA's review and records. The remaining Provincial/agency coordinators (Sindh, NHA and
FFC) have been asked to do the needful to ensure that audits are initiated/completed on an urgent
basis and reports provided to IDA by the due date. The. federal coordinator should take overall
responsibility for ensuring timely compliance by the project implementing agencies, of this legal
covenant.
Contract Management Issues
1. Annex. 2 provides a summary of the Contract Management Performance on the project. This is
based on the supervisory consultants report.
*   Completion Delays: Some 13 percent of the 776 contracts awarded under the IDA
financed component encountered completion delays of 6 months or more beyond the
original contract completion date. About 5 percent faced completion delays of more than
one year. Balochistan and NWFP had the weakest performance with 24 percent and 19
percent of their respective contracts delayed by 6 months or more.
*   Cost variations: Overall, 4 percent of the contracts included in the IDA financed
component had completion costs exceeding 15 percent of the award price. The largest
variations were encountered on the AJK and NHA portfolios where such variations
affected 10 percent and nine percent of the respective portfolios.
*     Remaining Critical works on incomplete 1992 contracts: Several contracts for 1992
damages were only partially completed by the December 31, 1996, the cut-off date for IDA
financing. The supervisory consultants had identified critical works remaining under these contracts
that needed to be completed with Government resources to render these facilities functional. The
mission noted that certain critical works in Punjab (irrigation & roads), Sindh (roads), Balochistan
(irrigation) and AJK (education & health) had still not been completed (Ref. Annex 3-8 for details).
The federal coordinator is requested to pursue the matter with the concerned governments/agencies
to ensure that these partially built assets are secured and put to productive use.
2.    Handing over of completed facilities: The AJK and Punjab PPC confirmed that all
Schools and health facilities constructed or rehabilitated under the project have been handed over to
the relevant departments for use.



- 27 -
3.    Abandoned Unfinished Contracts: The supervisory consultants have been instructed to
ensure that no payments are made from the IDA Credit for unfinished irrigation contracts in Punjab
and Sindh, which have been abandoned by the contractors (Ref. Annex 3-8 for details).
4.    Quality of the Constructed works: During its field visits, the mission identified certain
issues relating to construction quality that need to be addressed by the implementing agencies.
Details are included in Annexes. 3-8.
Other Issues
*     Implementation Completion Report (ICR):  IDA's requirement of preparing an ICR
within six months of the Credit Closing Date were explained to the borrower during the March 1997
mission. These are summarized in Annex. 10. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR includes: (i)
ICR Part II: preparation of its evaluation report on project implementation and operation, including
an assessment of the performance of Government and Bank, the extent to which project objectives
were achieved; and the lessons learned; and (ii) preparation of an Operational Plan for the operation
and maintenance of project facilities after completion/restoration. It was agreed that the FFC would
take the lead in preparing the Borrower's inputs, based on information provided by the implementing
agencies according to the following schedule:
*  Provincial/IA contributions to the ICR (Part II) to FFC by:  Dec. 31, 1997
e SC to provide IDA consolidated data required for
ICR (Part III) by:                                        Jan 31, 1998
* FFC to provide consolidated borrower's contribution (ICR Part II)
to IDA by:                                                 Jan. 31, 1998
* IDA to provide draft of ICR (Part I and III) to FFC for borrower's
comments by:                                               Feb. 28, 1998
*  Borrower comments on IDA's draft by:                       Mar. 30, 1998
*  Final Gray Cover ICR by:                                   May 31, 1998
*     Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plans for the Restored works: The mission was
provided with a draft Operation Plan assembled by the supervisory consultants, based on information
provided by the implementing agencies. The draft has been circulated to all implementing agencies
for confirmation/comments by the wrap-up meeting. A copy of the Operation Plan will be annexed to
the final mission aide-memoire.
*     Supervisory Consultants' Services After the Closing Date: The government confirmed
that the supervisory consultants' contract has been extended up to [April 30, 1998], using the
government's own resources, to provide assistance with certification of completed works,
preparation of Government's contributions to the project implementation completion report (ICR),
and preparation of withdrawal applications after the Credit Closing Date.
5.    Estimated Savings: At the Government's request, an amount of SDR 3.8 million (US$5.2
million) was canceled from the Credit in August 1997. The mission's current projections indicate
that a further amount of approximately US$ 8 million equivalent will remain un-utilized from the
Credit (Ref. Annex 9).



- 28 -
Performance Indicators Table A
Annex I Table A: PAKISTAN: 1992 Flood Damage Restoration Project (Cr. 2468-PAK)
Current and Projected Financial Progress
Rs Million
Province/         Cost of Cleared Sub-projects  Cost of Contracts Awarded    Estimated Cost of Completion Expenditure as of 30.09.97    Estim.Expend. Oct. to Dec. 97 Estim. Expend. upto Dec. 97  Spillover Beyond December 31,1 _19
Department             1S992    1994 Total         1992     1994 Total         1992     1994 Total         1992      1994 Total         1992     1994 Total         1992     1994 Total         1992      1994 Total    M. Work  Rt Money
1        2        3        4         5        6         7        8         9        10       11       12        13       14        15       16        17       18       19        20       21        22       23        24        25
Punjab
IRR           650       348      998      673       354     1027       587      338      925       587      319       906        0        19       19      587       338       925        0         0        0         0         0
C&W           289       150      439      284       125      409       210      130       340      210        91      301        0        18       18       210      109       319        0        21       21        12       _9
Health         26         0       26        10        0       10        10        0        10        3        0         3        0         0        0         3        0         3        0         0        0         0         0
_    Subtotal      S65      4St     1463       S7       49       1 446     807      468      1275      Boo       410     1210         0       37       37       800      447      1247        0        21        21       1 2        S
Slndh wommo                                                        ME =M onrs  on                                                  ME =M EM mm"  
IRR           301       248      549      274       218j     4921      266      218|     484       266j     176j      442j       °        23j      23i     266i      199i     46sl        oi       1 9      1 9       1 72
C&W           139        21      160      131        1 18    1491      124       1 8      142      124L      16j      1401       0         2j       2j     124j       1 8      142j       oj        oj       C         o
Subtotal     440       269      709      405       236i     641|      390      236j     626       390i     192i      5821       0        2sl      251     3901      217l     6071        ol       191      19        1
NWFP        _.                                                                                                                          
=   IRR             67       1 4       81       68        10|      78|      62         6|      68        62j       6j      68j        0        ol        o       621        61      68|        0|       0         0        oi  
1C&W             0       24       24         0       261      261        a       2 7       27       °0       231       231       0         41       41        °       271       271       °l        °0~                ol        a
1Subtotall     671      38       105       68        361     10l4      62        331      95        621      291      911        0l       4j        4j      62j       331      95         °l       °i        °        01         0
IC&W          405        75      480j      5421      39j     s31       5221      SSj      5771     5031      221    5251        14i       27i      41i     5171       49i      566        si        6i      11i        6i        5
[Educatio       56 se             56j       6         °i      61        sa        oj       soj      so          j       o        oj    oj           oj       soj       ol       sj        o         o         i
iHealth         26        0       26i       27i       Oi      27i       141       Oi       14i      14i       O        14|       0|        Oj       Oj       14        oj                                                        0 io   jo
|IRR  |tl      15544     36j     190|      1531      37i     1901      120|      36j      156|     120|      361      156|       0l        0|               120|      361      156|       o|         |       ol        olO
|Subtotl       IU       3r.      190l     1531       371     190l     1201       361     1561      120j      361     1561       °0       °0                120j      36j      1561        Oj       °0 °ll                       °
NHA
PunJab          0 ol     531      s31       ol       ssl      ssl       ol       ssl      s81        ol      381      381        ol       191      19        ol       571      571        ol       11        1        ol
ISindh         101        oi     1011      101|       oj      101i      81        oi       811      81        oi       81        oi        oi       oi      81         oi      81         oi        oi       o        oi         O
INWFP           59 ss             59ss      79j               79i       79i       °i       79i      73i       °i       73i       si        oi       si      78i        oi      78i        1i       oi        I  1i    o
|Baloch. j     170|       Oj     170|      170j       Oj     170j      132j       Oj      132j     132j       Oj      132        oj        oj       oj     132         oi     132         oi       oi        oi       oi         o
jAJK          267j        9j     267j      164|       0|     164|      193        Oj      193|     128|       0|      128|      43|        °|      43|     171         °i     17,j       22|        0       22|       171        5
Removable Bridgesl      308        °l     30B|      361|       °l     361|      361|       °l      3611    361|        °l      3611       °l        °l       °l     3611        01     3611        01        01       01       01         0
Subtotali  sos      53|    9s81      876|       58i     933i      ea6       s81     904i      77sl      381      813|      48i       191      671     8231       57|     880|       231       1 |       4       117
Notei:ThecostforemoveablebridgesincludesimportdutyofRs2O6mllllon
6115198 14:19                                                                            I                                                                                                                          i 



- 29 -
Perfomance Indicators Table B
Annex I Table B: PAKISTAN: 1992 Flood Damage Restorton Project (Cr. 2468-PAK)
Yearwise Actual and Projected Expenditures
Rs Million
Provincel     I   Eat Com FY92/93  FY93194 FY94196  FY95196 a FY96197  FY97198  Total Expend Balance Work as of Oct 1, 97   Est Expend Oct- Dec. '97  Spillover after Dec. 1997
Department        Cost    Expend  Expend  Expend  Expend  Expend  Expend  Up to 09197                1992     1994 Total         1992     1994 Total         1992      1994 Total
1        2        3        4        5         6        7        8        8a          9          10       11        12       13       14        15       16        17       18
Punjab
IIRK           925       37       79      201      312       246       31           908        0       19        19        0        19       19        0         0        0
C&W           340        2        20      119       48        86       26          301         0       39       39         0       18        18        0        21       21
Health         10        0         0        0        2         1        0            3         7        0        7         0        0         0        0        0         0
Subtotal    1276       39      100       320      362      333        56         1210         7       58       65         0       37       37         0       21        21
Slndh
IRR           484        0        83       77      187        89        6          442         0       42       42         0       23       23         0        19       19
C&W           142        3         2       44       26       49        17          140         0        2        2         0        2         2        0        0         0
Subtotal     626        3        85      121      213       138       22          582         0       44       44         0       25        26        0       19        19
IRR            68        4        10       27       20         7        0           68         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0
C&W            27        0         0        0        0        23        0           23         0        4        4         0        4         4        0        0         0
Subtotal      96        4        10       27       20       30         0           91         0        4        4         0        4         4        0        0         0
AJKT
C&W           577        5         4       66      270       160       20          525        19       33        52       14       27        41        5         6       11
Educatlo       50        0         0       12       22        16        0           50         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
Health         14        0         0        1        6         7        0            14        0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0
Subtotal     641        5        4        78      298      183        21          589        19       33       52        14       27       41         5        6        11
Balochlstan                                                    - |       I                               I                           I                  I
iSRR           156        1        0       32        78       44        2           156        0         0        0        O         0        0        O         0        0
ISubOa        I5         1                 32       781       4         2          '156       ol        a        o        o0 o               ol        c        
Punjab         58        0         0        0        0        38        0           38         0       20       20         ol      199      19         0        1         1
SIndh          81       60        15        0             0                         81         0        0        0                  0         0        0 ol     0         0
NWFP           79       47         0        4        3        1'7       2           73         6        0        6         5        0        5         1        0         1
IBaloch.       132      103        0        0         0       25        4           132        0         0        0        0         0        0        0 0               0
IAJK           193        0        0       12        31       52       33           128       65         0       65       43         0       43       221        0       22
Removable Bridges      361         0        0        0       15       346        0           361        0        0         0 o0              0         0        0 o       a        o
I Subtotal   904      210        15       16       55      478        39          813        71       20       91        48       19       67        23        1        24
Tobl   l   3697  261  213   695      10261    1206      140          3441       97       169      266       62      112       174       28        4?       76
819198  18:01           _   ___                                        _______                                                             ll 



- 30 -
Annex 2: PAKISTAN: 1992 Flood Damage Restoration Project (Cr. 2468-PAK)
Contract Management Performance
Costs In Rs Million
Province/           # of Contr. Awarded      Contr. Compl. Cost                       Delay > 6 mo                                 -Delay > 12 mo                            Cost Variation > 15%
Department            1992   1994      Total   1992  1994    Total # of Contr  % of Contr Val of Cont % of Val.  # of Contr  % of Conk  Val of Cont  % of Val.  # of Contr % of Conk Val of Con  % of Val
1        2        3       4        5        6      7       8          9          10          11          12         13          14           15         16          17          18         19         20
Punjab      ___
IRR          118      32       150    587  338        925           13         9%         80.9        9%            5         3%         37.8         4%           2         1%            9       1%
C&W           32      15        47    210   130       340            6        13%         38.6       11%            4         9%          16.5        5%           0         0%            0       0%
Health        17       0        17      10      0      10            0         0%                     0%            0         0%                      0%           0         0%            0       0A%
Subtotal    167      47      214    807   468    1275              19         9%        119.5        9%           9          4%         54.3         4%           2         1%            9       1%
S_d                                __ _ _ __                                      ____ _ ___   _ __ ____  __  __                                                                            _____
IRK           93      36       129    266   218       484           18        14%         95.6       20%            7         5%         56.9        12%           3         2%         12.8       3%
C&W           51       1        52    124      18     142           11        21%         24.2       17%            7        13%          15.6       11%           0         0%            0       0%A:
b l   1 44n  ~~~~~11           39C  -236  62 6              25        16         198         19%148                               72.5       1 2%           32A18
NWFP
IRR           43       2        45     62      6       68            9        20%         20.8       31%            3         7%          6.1         9%           0         0%            0       O%
C&W             0 2              2    0  27            27            0         0%                     0%            0         0%                      0%           0         0%            0    0%S
Subtotal     43       4       47      62    33        95            9        19%         20.8       22%           3          6%          6.1         6%           0         0%            0       0%
AJK
C&W           87       2        89    522    55       577           12        13%        124.9       22%            2         2%           55        10%          16        18%        213.5      37%
Educatto      80       0        80      50      0      50            2         3%          1.7        3%            1         1%           1.3        3%           2         3%          2.2       4%
Health        10    0           10      14      0      14            0         0%                     0%           0 '        0%                      0%           0         0%            0       0%
Subtotal    177       2      179    586    55        641           14         8%        126.6       20%           3          2%         56.3         9%          18        10%        215.7      34%
Balochistan
IRR           66      19        85    120    36       156           20        24%         41.7       27%           3          4%         11.7         8%           2         2%          4.5       3%
Subtotal     66      19       85    120    36        186           20        24%         41.7       27%           3          4%         11.7         8%           2         2%          4.5       3%
NHA
Punjab         0       4         4       0    58       58            4       100%         58.1      100%           1         25%         18.8        32%           3       75%1         3.75       6%
Slndh         25       0        25      81      0      81            0         0%                     0%           0          0%                      0%           0         0%            0       0%
NWFP           8       0         8     79      0       79            1        13%          34        43%            1        13%           34        43%           1        13%          34       43%
Baloch.       29       0        29    132       0     132            0         0%                     0%           0          0%                      0%           0         0%           0        0%
_    AJK             2      a         2    193       0      193           2       100%          193      100%            2       1 00°A        193       100%           2       100%          193     100%
-Removable Bridges        2      C               361      a      361                     0°Ai                   0%      0               0°%                    60O/.                          0°A            0°A
Subtota  66    ~ ~4   70    84           a5    904            7        1I0%         285       32%            46°h                  246        27%           69%                  231       2 6%56
Total                663  13          762811  8806                                         36998 1% 74        9%35%47                                         2%1                   4%          473   13%
N^IvzE EL%FDR\CO>NTMGMTXS                      I                                       Is                                            It *   1t0ElI _1|1 l



-31 -
Annex 3
AJK
I.   CURRENT STATUS & PROJECTED COMPLETION
The table below summarizes the current status of the 1992 and 1994 works (cost figures in
million Rs.):
C& W    Education   Health       Total
Total number of 1992 contracts                       87          80       10        177
Est. Completion Cost                                522          50       14        586
Number of contracts completed.                       84          72       10        166
Expenditure as of September 30,1997                 503          50       14        567
Financial progress as % of completion cost         96%         100%    100%        97%
Balance work on 1992 contracts (as of 9/97)          19           0        0         19
Total number of 1994 contracts awarded                2                               2
Estimated completion Cost of 1994 contracts          55                              55
Number of 1994 contracts completed.                    -  ___ _
Expenditure as of Sept. 30,97                        22                              22
Financialprogress as % of completion cost          40%            -        -       40%
Number of contracts delayed by more than 6 mo.        2           -        -          2
Balance 1994 work (as of 9/97)                       33           -        -         33
Projected 1994 Expenditure by December 31, 1997      49           -        -         49
Estimated Spill-over    (a) Measured Work             6           -        -          6
(Govt. liability)   (b) Retention Money              5           -        -         5
Total Expenditure (1992 + 1994) by closing date.    566          50       14        630
=> Extended 1992 Damage Works
The closing date for 10 C&W Dept. 1992 Flood Damage contracts (one road work and nine
suspension bridges in the Neelum Valley) was extended to Dec. 1997. Of these works, seven
(suspension bridge) contracts have been completed. The remaining three contracts are in an
advanced stage of completion. However works amounting to Rs. 2.5 million (and Retention
Money payments of Rs. 2.5 million) are likely to spill-over beyond the Closing Date.
=1 1994 Damage Works
These consist of the two C&W Dept. pilot slide rehabilitation contracts on Kohala Muzaffarabad
Road (subproject FIK/C&W-01-01, Packages VIII and IX). The volume of work has increased in
some stretches beyond the tendered BOQ quantities, because of the need to place wall
foundations deeper than originally envisioned to reach sound rock. The estimated completion
cost is now 141 percent of the award price. The mission has asked for a comparative analysis of
this variation. Aggregate financial progress was 55 percent of the original scope at the end of
September 1997, and is projected to reach 125 percent of the award price by end December
1997. However works amounting to Rs. 3 million (plus Retention money payments amounting
to Rs. 3 million) are likely to spill over beyond the Closing Date.



- 32 -
II.    FINANCING REQUIREMENT & AVAILABILITY
C&W
(Rs. million)
Funds required Oct. - to Dec. 97                        41
Spill over beyond Dec.. 97                              11
Total balance requirement                               52
ADP allocation 97/98                                    32
Releases                                                32
Balance in hand from releases                           13
IDA Special Account balance                            0.5
Recent IDA reimbursement                               3.3
Total available                                       16.8
Additional requirement                                35.2
=> The SOE Review indicated that in case of AJK on C&W contract [AJK/C&W/02/l2/1/3] the
standard Bank approved NIT was not used.
=> Audit Report: The mission was informed by the PPC that the Audit for 1996-97 has been
completed and Audit Report will be provided to IDA before December 31 1997.
III.   ISSUES
(a)    Previously Agreed Actions
=> Hand over of completed facilities: The remaining 33 completed schools were to be
handed over for operation by March 1997. PPC was to advise current status by
December 7, 1997 [information still awaited].
> Quality aspects: It appears that several of the quality concerns flagged by the March
1997 mission have not been attended to. These include provision of waterproofing or
insulation treatment for school roofs in Mirpur district and measures to ensure
adequate drainage/runoff for the road works. The PPC/supervisory consultants must
ensure that these are satisfactorily attended to by the Closing Date, before any further
Retention Money releases are certified for IDA reimbursement.
=> Critical balance works: education & health: Some of the rehabilitation works in these
sectors could not be completed by the closing date for the 1992 damage works
(December 1996).  The March 1997 mission had suggested that the concerned
departments complete the balance works (amounting to Rs. 0.24 million for Education
and Rs. 1.9 million for Health) with their own resources. However, no progress has been
reported. GoAJK should complete these remaining minor works to make these facilities
usable.
(b)    Cost variations: The mission expressed concern at the completion cost increases
encountered on a number of sub-projects in AJK, indicating inadequate sub-project
preparation and/or poor contract management during implementation. Annex. 2 indicates
that 10 percent of the contracts (one third of the AJK portfolio by value) incurred cost
variations exceeding 15 percent of the contract award price during implementation.



- 33 -
This is more than twice as high as the cost variations encountered on the project as a whole.
The supervisory consultants should prepare a comparative statement for FFC (copied to
IDA) by December 31, 1997 identifying the reasons for this.
(c)    Release of retention money: The PPC indicated that outstanding retention money
deductions by the department (for 1992 and 1994 works), becoming due for release after the
Credit Closing Date, on completion of the Defect Liability Period, amount to approx. Rs. 20
million. The contract documents allow release of such retention against a bank guarantee, on
substantial completion. The IDA procurement guideline also permit such an arrangement.
The PPC requested that IDA allow reimbursements of retention payments released under the
above arrangement before the closing date. The mission indicated that this was not
permissible under current IDA disbursement practice. The PPC indicated that he would
make a formal request supported by appropriate documentation, for IDA's
consideration/decision.



34 -
Annex 4
BALOCHISTAN
I.   CURRENT STATUS & PROJECTED COMPLETION
The table below summarizes the current status of the 1992 and 1994 works (Cost figures in
million Rs.):
Irrigation
Total number of 1992 contracts                                              66
Est. Completion Cost                                                       120
No. of Contracts completed                                                  58
Expenditure as of September 30, 1997                                       120
Financial progress as % of completion cost                                100%
Balance 1992 Works (as of 9/97)                                              0
Total number of 1994 contracts awarded                                      19
Est. Completion Cost                                                        36
Number of contracts completed                                                19
Expenditure on 1994 contracts as of September 1996                          36
Financial progress as % of total contract cost                            100%
Number of contracts delayed by more than 6 months                           nil
Balance 1994 work (as of 9/97)                                              nil
Projected 1994 Expenditure by Dec. 31, 1997                                 36
Estimated Slip-over            (a) Measured Work
(Govt. Liability)            (b) Retention Money           _
Total Expenditure (1992 + 1994 ) by closing date                           156
>  1992 Damage Works: Of the 66 contracts costing Rs.156 million, 58 contracts costing
Rs.120 million (100 percent) have been completed. The Irrigation Department has
dropped/foreclosed three contracts, and rescinded five. GoBal does not consider these works as
critical.
=> 1994 Damage Works: Of the 19 contracts costing Rs. 36 million, all contracts have been
substantially completed.
II.    FINANCING REQUIREMENT & AVAILABILITY
Accrued liabilities amount to Rs. 0.75 million for 1994 contracts. The department is
arranging this amount.
Im.    ISSUES
(a)    Project Coordinator: The PC has been changed recently. GoBal should send his specimen
signatures authenticated by EAD to IDA urgently.
(b)    1992 Damages: Remaining Critical Restoration Works: GoBal should complete
remaining critical works with its own resources. IDA will not pay for partially completed



-35 -
works which cannot stand alone or have no economic value. Consultants should not certify
withdrawal applications for such works.
(c)    Outstanding Withdrawal Applications (w1a): The department has not yet submitted w/a
for expenditure of Rs 3 million. These should be submitted to IDA by December 15, 1997.
(d)    Audit Report for 1996/97 has been completed but not yet submitted to IDA. PPC should
expedite submission of this report.
(e)    The supervisory consultant reported that Quality Aspects highlighted during the last
mission's visit have been adequately addressed.



- 36 -
Annex 5
NHA COMPONENT
I.     CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION
1.    All IDA 1992 damage works were completed by December 1996, except for the three major
bridges which were extended. The Removable Bridge equipment (dry and floating) has been
received, and a storage plan has been provided to IDA. A part of this equipment has been deployed
in Balochistan during 1997, following the collapse of some cross drainage structures there.
2.     The position of the extended works is described below (amounts indicated in million Rs.).
All contracts except the Kohala Bridge are expected to be complete by the Closing Date.
Subproject          Compl.        Expenditure & Percentage Completion up to:   Completion
Cost             Sept. 30, 1997      Dec. 31, 1997           Date
Expend.   _              Expend.   _
Kohala Br.           113         71           63          93          82        Apr. 1998
Karrot Br.            80         57           71          78          98        Dec. 1997
Ghari Habib Br        34         29           86          33          97        Dec. 1997
3 Punjab 1994         58         30           52          57          98        Dec. 1997
Schemes
II.    PROJECTED PROGRESS & FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
The NHA is expected to complete remaining work amounting to Rs. 67 million during the Oct.-Dec.
'97 period, while expenditures amounting to Rs. 24 million are expected to be incurred by GOP
following the closing date. The following analysis indicates that NHA has sufficient funds to
complete these remaining works:
IDA:  Bal. Payments for expend. Incurred by Dec. '97          =      Rs. 67 m
IDA share 90 percent through direct payments to contractors   =  Rs. 60.3 m
GOP share of expend. Incurred by Dec. '97              =      Rs. 6.7 m
GOP liability for completing spill-over works          =      Rs. 24 m
Total counterpart funds required                       =      Rs. 30.7 m
ADB: Projected GOP liability for completing ADB spill-over    =      Rs. 26 m
10 percent GoP share for expend. incur. by 12/97       =      Rs. 4.4 m
Total GOP liability (incl. IDA+ADB spill-over)         =      Rs. 30.4 m
97/98 PSDP counterpart allocation for project          =      Rs. 272 m
97/98 un-utilized allocations.                         =      TBD
The IDA Special Account is almost fully adjusted. NHA indicated that it will utilize the
approximately US$700 balance remaining in the account and submit documentation to IDA.
The SOE Review indicated that in the case of one NHA contract [FIH/P-05/17(94)] the tender
documents were provided to prospective bidders only eight days before bid opening, even though 38
days notice was provided between the publication of the NIT and the date of bid opening.



-37-
IlI.   ISSUES & ACTIONS
=  Audits: NHA's past audit reports were submitted as part of and along with Punjab's audit
reports. NHA should reconfirm whether this arrangement will also continue for 96/97
report.
Previously Agreed Actions: The problem of delayed payments to bridge contractors
appears to have been resolved; the Special Account balance has been mostly adjusted; and a
storage and deployment plan for the removable bridges has been provided to IDA. A part of
the poor quality road works identified in Balochistan during the last mission were rectified
and certified for payment by the supervisory consultants.
Contract Management
Kohala Bridge: Significant progress has been achieved on this contract since March 1997.
At the time of the mission's field visit (mid-November) the casting of eight deck segments
remained to be completed. The NHA hopes that the balanced cantilever bridge super-
structure will be "closed", and the right bank approach largely completed by the closing date.
However, completion of the ancillary structural works and the left bank approach is expected
to require a further 3-4 months. V.0.2 covering construction of culvert at Arain Nullah was
recently forwarded to IDA for clearance.
Karrote Bridge: The Engineer (NESPAK) was asked to provide IDA details of the
extension of time provided on the contract. An early decision is needed on the type of
surfacing to be provided on the approaches. The original triple surfacing is not possible
because of weather conditions during the remaining period prior to the closing date.
=' Quality of Constructed Works
Kohala Bridge: Structural work in progress on the bridge is generally of good quality. Pile
load test was successfully completed. Quality of approach road works need to be closely
monitored during the remaining period, as these are being executed through a sub-contractor.
Comments on as-built drawings and material and construction quality test records,
mentioned below for Karrote bridge also apply here.
Karrote Bridge: Work done is generally of good quality. Modified details suggested by the
March 1997 review mission have been incorporated. Consultants were asked to review
whether the inner guardrail on the right bank approach could be eased further, to improve
geometrics. The toll booth should be carefully located on the approach to avoid creating any
traffic safety hazard. Contractor should be asked to prepare as-built drawings, and the
Engineer should compile a complete dossier of the material testing and construction quality
control checks implemented during the contract period for NHA's records, with a copy to
IDA.
Ghari Habibullah Bridge: Bridge structure now substantially complete. Properly detailed
expansion joints need to be provided. For some reason, the railing design does not follow
the standard NHA jersey barrier type guardrail. Construction of the approach slabs and
approach ramp surfacing should be completed, before the facility is opened to traffic.



- 38 -
Annex 6
NWFP
I.   CURRENT STATUS AND PROJECTED COMPLETION
The table below summarizes the status of the 1992 and 1994 works (Cost figures in
million Rs.):
Irrigation   C&W      Total
Total number of 1992 contracts                                       43        0        43
Estimated Completion cost                                             62       0        62
No. of contracts completed                                            43        0       43
Expenditure as of September 30, 1997                                  62       0        62
Financial progress as % of completion cost                         100%       NA      100%
Balance Work (as of 9/97)                                              0     NA          0
Total number of 1994 contracts awarded                                 2       2         4
Est. Completion cost of 1994 contracts                                 6      27        33
Number of contracts completed                                          2       2          4
Expenditure as of Sept. 30, 1997                                       6      23        29
Financial progress as % of total contract cost                     100%      85%       88%
Number of contracts delayed by more than 6 months                      0       0          0
Balance 1994 work (as of 9/97)                                         0       4         4
Projected 1994 Expenditure by Dec. 31,1997                             6      27        33
Estimated Slip-over         (a) Measured Work                          -        -         -
(Govt. Liability)        (b) Retention Money                        -        -         -
Total accrued expenditure (1992 + 1994) by Closing Date               68      27        95
II.  FINANCING REQUIREMENT & AVAILABILITY
=>     The balance funding requirement is:
IDA                    4.4 m
KfW                    1.3 m
Govt.                  6.0 m
Total:                12.0 m
>  No allocation or releases have been made during 1997-98. The department should consider the
following options for the remaining payments under the IDA component:
(i)    Arrange bridge financing to make payment and claim reimbursement.
(ii)    File three separate w/applications to IDA by early January 1997 for direct payments
to contractors.
> Audit for the FY 1996/97 has been completed but report has not been forwarded to the Auditor
General, Pakistan and IDA. PPC must ensure that the report is submitted before December 31,
1997.



- 39 -
QUALITY ISSUES
> Road Works
D. 1. Khan Tank Road (sub-project No FIN/C&W): The works have been substantially
completed. The following observations made by the mission should be addressed as part of the
punch list:
(i)   Extend wing walls where necessary, at culverts with high road embankments.
(ii)    Check vertical curves at ramps at each end of high embankment reaches and
improve profile if necessary.
(iii)   Road surfacing (TST) in some reaches appears excessively coarse. Inspect and
rectify as necessary.
(iv)   Add indication stones at edges of shoulder at I 5m c/c in high embankment reaches
to improve safety.
(v)   It was reported that the tests for salt content in fine aggregate used in concrete
requested during the last mission's visit were carried out and found within BS limits.
=> Irrigation Works: Post restoration maintenance seems to be lacking on sub- projects that were
completed earlier during the project. The Irrigation Department must put a preventive
maintenance program in place.



-40 -
Annex 7
PUNJAB
I.   CURRENT STATUS & PROJECTED COMPLETION
The table below summarizes the current status of the 1992 & 1994 works2/ (cost figures in
million Rs.):
Irrigation    C&W         Health         Total
Total number of 1992 contracts                               118         32          17          167
Estimated Completion Cost                                    587        210          10          807
Number of Contracts completed                                115         32           2           149
Expenditure as of September 30, 1997                         587        210           3          800
Financial progress as % of completion cost                 100%       100%         30%           99%
Balance Work on 1992 Contracts (as of 9/97)                    0          0           0             0
Total number of 1994 contracts awarded                        33         15         NA            48
Estimated Completion Cost                                    338        130         NA           468
Number of contracts completed                                 24          4         NA            28
Expenditure as of September 30 1997                          319         91         NA           410
Financial progress as % of total contract cost                94         70         NA             87
Number of contracts delayed by more than 6 months              9         11         NA            20
Balance 1994 work (as of 9/97)                                19         39         NA            58
Projected 1994 Expenditure by December 31, 1997              338        109                      447
Estimated Spill-over         (a) Measured Work               -??         12                        12
(Govt. Liability)       (b) Retention Money            _??            9           -             9
Total accrued expend (1992 + 1994) by Closing Date          925         319           3         1247
I.   FINANCING REQUIREMENT AND AVAILABILITY
(Cost figures are in million Rs.)
1997-98                         IRR            C&W
Exp. Incurred                                    1.6             14
Bal. 1994 Exp. Up to Dec.                       19.0             18
Spill over                                        0             21
1992 Damage Liability                           4.3
Total required                                 24.9              53
Allocated                                      33.1             16.0
Released                                        15.4            14.8
Balance Required                                 9.5            38.2
Remaining releases                              17.7              0
Additional Bridge Finan. needed                N.A.            38.2
Substantial variations (reductions) are observed in the currently reported expenditures and estimated completion costs
in relation to the figures reported during the last supervision mission (Feb.-March 1997) since only the eligible
expenditures are being reported now.



-41 -
The SOE Review indicated that in the case of two Punjab C&W contracts [FIP/C&W/09(II) and
13-06(94)] the standard Bank approved NIT was not used.
Special Account balance is US$761.  Expenditure amounting to US$12,236 remains to be
documented. The PPC should submit withdrawal applications of equivalent Rupee amount to have
this amount (US$12,997) adjusted.
For works exceeding 15 percent of the contract cost and requiring a formal variation order, the
concerned department should provide IDA supporting documentation through the supervisory
consultants (an undertaking from the contractor that additional work would be executed on contract
rates, or a comparative statement confirming this arrangement).
Audit Report: PPC should ensure submission of audit report before December 31, 1997.
III. ISSUES
=, Balance Critical Works: Restoration work at Shank Bund at Ravi syphon sub-project no
FIP/IRR-54-07(94): Although work is 80 percent complete, yet the balance works which
includes a part of the apron, is critical for performance. An overpayment has been made and
contractor has abandoned site. So far no payment has been released from IDA account. The
Department must have the balance works completed by December 1997, to have this sub-project
qualify for IDA funding. Consultant to submit a summary/report.
Quality
I> rrigation Department Works: The report on the failure of shahwala spur requested in the
last Aide-Memoire was eventually forwarded by the XEN through the consultants in October
1997. It explains the event and cause of failure of its nose and part of shank. Solution given was
to restore it in a setback position. GoPunjab should complete the rectification prior to 1998
floods.
> Flood Bund at left side of river Indus: Sub-project FIP/IRR-65-06(94), at downstream of
Ghazi Ghat Bridge has suffered significant damage in 1996 and 1997 floods, due to a creek that
has developed in front and because of insufficient preventive measures taken earlier by the
department. This may result in serious consequences in 1998 floods, if unattended. Particular
attention of GoPunjab is drawn, to take note of its priority and carryout necessary repairs.
C & W Department Works
=> Critical Works: Side Drains in Urban /Built-up Areas have not been completed in all cases.
Those in Muzzafargargh and Khangarh town were visited during the supervision mission and
were found incomplete. GoPunjab is urged to complete these drains on priority bases to avoid
damage to the roads. Other incomplete works include:
=' Drainage Control Works on Suspended Contracts: (FIP/C&W-02-10(94): The remaining
works include hillside toe drain, culvert and outfall and PCC shoulder to firm up the gabion
retaining wall. These works are considered critical for works to operate over their normal useful
life. The Department should take necessary action to complete these before December 31, 1997.
(The mission was informed that the contract is suspended due to a court injunction).



- 42 -
Jaralu Nullah Bridge (FIP/C&W-04-05(94): A number of works comprising reinstatement of
settled pitching at three locations, flare out of left pitching, drainage of berms and outfall and
dismantling of heavy blocks lying in bed under the bridge should be completed when the sub-
project is finalized by the consultants.
Sialkot - Zafarwal Road (FIP/C&W-09-09):  Although the sub-project is substantially
complete, triple surfacing over 1000 ft. is outstanding. Another 1000 ft. in reaches appears
"hungry" where a seal coat is needed. The reinstatement of berms was in progress without
compaction. Supervisory consultant should assure work on berms is carried out according to
specifications before the contract is finalized.



-43 -
Annex 8
SINDH
I. CURRENT STATUS AND PROJECTED COMPLETION:
The table below summarizes the current status of the 1992 & 1994 works!' (cost figures in
,million Rs.):
Irrigation      C&W         Total
Total number of 1992 contracts                                    93            51       144
Estimated Completion Cost                                        266           124       390
Number of Contracts completed                                     93            51        144
Expenditure as of September 30, 1997                             266           124       390
Financial progress as % of completion cost                      100%         100%       100%
Balance work on 1992 contracts (as of 9/97)                        0             0         0
Total number of 1994 contracts awarded                            36             1        37
Estimated completion Cost of 1994 contracts                      218            18       236
Number of 1994 contracts completed                                30             1        30
Expenditure as of September 30, 1997                              176           16        192
Financial progress as % of completion cost                       81%          89%        81%
Number of contracts delayed by more than 6 months                   6            1          7
Balance 1994 works (as of 9/97)                                   42             2        44
Projected 1994 Expenditure by December 31, 1997                  199            18       217
Estimated spill-over      (a) Measured Work                       12             0         12
(Govt. Liability)      (b) Retention Money                      7            0          7
Total accrued expenditure (1992 + 1994 ) by Closing Date         465           142       607
A'    Substantial variations (reductions) are observed in the currently reported expenditures and estimated completion
costs in relation to the figures reported during the last supervision mission (Feb.-March '97) since only the eligible
expenditures are being reported now.



-44 -
II.    FINANCING REQUIREMENT & AVAILABILITY
The following table indicates that sufficient counterpart funds are available to complete the
remaining works (Figures in million Rs.):
Irrigation         C&W
Funding Required (97/98)
Measured Work                                    2.4           TBD
Retention Money                                   5            TBD
Total Required                                 7.4              2
Available funds
GoSindh ADP Allocation                           3.5             3.4
GoSindh                                          1.8           TBD
(ADP Bal.+Releases)
IDA Special Acct.                                8.5
Total                                         10.3           TBD
Additional BF Required                           Nil             Nil
=> Special Accounts:  GoSindh should submit documentation by December 15,1997, for
adjustment of the outstanding US$215,858 SA balance. Alternatively, GoSindh should refund
the above amount to IDA.
> Audit Reports:  PPC should urgently arrange for completing the audit of FY 96/97 accounts
and submit the audit report by December 31, 1997.
III.   ISSUES
(a)    Contractor of IRR-05-04/A(94) has abandoned the site. IDA payments should be certified
by consultant, only if design requirements have been met.
(b)    On B.U. Bund Irr-30-01/A(94) where measured works is disputed by the Department, IDA
will reimburse only for those works that are certified by the consultant and which have an
economic value.
High Turnover of Provincial Coordinators (PC): Since the commencement of the project, nine transfers of
the PC have been made. This high turnover has adversely affected the smooth running of the project,
particularly aspects relating to overview of contract management, quality control, operation of SA and timely
submission of withdrawal applications. It is encouraging that the present incumbent PC has maintained his
position for the last six months. The mission requested GoSindh to maintain continuity of the PC for the
remaining project period.
Quality
= Irrigation: Critical Maintenance on Malir Weir: The mission noted that the Irrigation
Department staff should be asked to carefully monitor the performance of the cut-off wall
constructed at the end of block apron and the toe wall of the right downstream embankment
potential erosion/foundation undermining, following floods. The PPC was asked to ensure that
this concern was formally conveyed to the concerned departmental maintenance staff.



-45 -
Critical Works: The C&W department must take action and complete the work of reinstatement of
shoulders on the four sub-projects from the 1992 portfolio having a total affected length of about
7.5 Km (cost: Rs. 0.1Sm) before December 31, 1997. This was pointed out in past mission aide-
memoires, but no action has been taken so far. In case the shoulders are not completed, IDA will not
pay for the corresponding road lengths which are highly susceptible to premature damage. The
supervisory consultants were instructed to ensure that any expenditures made from the IDA Credit
for such incomplete works are adjusted/reimbursed.



- 46 -
Annex 9
Estimate of Savings from  the IDA Credit
(As of September 30, 1997)
(Figures in 'Millions')
Category  Category Description   Expenditures Upto Sep.97    Claimed    Unclaimed  Estimated Expenditures
Total     IDA's Share  IDA's Share IDA's Share During Sep-Dec 1997
Total   IDA's Share
1              2                  3              4            5     1 (4-5) =6        7 
-               --Ru p-upee        -
I-A   Civil Works - NHA              452.00        406.80      381.21       25.59        67.00       60.30
I-B   Civil Works - Punjab          1210.00       1089.00     1029.20        59.80       37.00       33.30
I-C   Civil Works - Sindh            582.00        523.80      512.80        11.00       25.00       22.50
I-D   Civil Works - NWFP              91.00         81.90       70.70        11.20        4.00        3.60
I-E   Civil Works - Balochsitan      156.00        140.40      135.00        5.40         0.00           -
I-F   Civil Works - AJK              589.00        530.10      484.10       46.00        41.00       36.90
Civil Works Total             3080.00       2772.00     2613.01      158.99       174.00      156.60
2    Removeable Bridges        USS 4.89         USS 4.89    US$ 4.89         0.00        0.00            0
3    Consultants Services           188.03        106.30      102.26         0.00       15.40        15.40
US$ 0.51      US$ 0.28        0.00        0.00    US$ 0.05     US$ 0.05
Estimated Disbursements From October 1, 1997 to Credit Closing:
I  _ _  _              I  __                                  XX
Civil Works (Category 1) - Column 6+8           Rs 315.59   USD 7.01
Removeable Bridges (Category 2)                      0.00        0.00
Consultants Services (Category 3)-Column 7       Rs 15.4         0.34
l______  ____________  US$  0.05  US$L 00
___________________  ___________   _________   U S $   7.40
Total Actual Disbursements(As of September 30, 1997):
I  _                   I
Civil Works (Category 1):                                 US$ 74.86
Removeable Bridges (Category 2)                           US$ 4.89
Consultants Services (Category 3)                         U3L.129
l     l                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~US$ 83.04
Estimated Total Disbursements Till Closing of Credit:                      US$ 90.44
Value of IDA Credit (As of September 30, 1997):                            US$ 98.42
Estimated Savings (excluding earlier cancelled amount of US$ 5.20 M):      US$ 7.98
Assumption: For disbursements from October 1997 onwards Rupees   |_l
converted to US dollars @ Rs 45=USSI  |          l                                                 l
M:/Riaz/FDRPdis.xls            l              l             l                                                 I



- 47 -
Annex 10
Guidance on Borrower's Evaluation of Project
(a)    The Government's own final evaluation of the project is an important part of the ICR. It is
attached unedited to the ICR submitted to the IDA Board. It can be selective in coverage and
should address issues and lessons learned in project implementation, from the borrower's
perspective.  Topics covered can be the same as in the ICR, including project
preparation/design, appraisal, implementation and project outcome/results. At each stage of
the project the contribution should comment on the performance of both IDA and the
implementing agencies, with observations, where possible supported by evidence or
reasoned argument.
(b)    For Project preparation/design the report should address such questions as the
appropriateness of project objectives, the size and scope of the investments proposed, ease
(or difficulty) of implementation, and effects on government institutions.
(c)    For project appraisal the report should concentrate on any significant changes made during
appraisal in the project objectives, size, and scope as compared to those proposed in the
preparation report, and whether these were appropriate.
(d)    Project implementation experience should be divided in to an assessment of IDA
performance in supporting and supervising the project and the performance of the
implementing agencies. Effectiveness of the relationship between the government and IDA
should also be documented.
(e)    Project Operation Experience should document the initial observations on the manner in
which project created facilities are being operated and maintained and the prospects of
sustainability.
(f)    Project Results include both an assessment of direct physical benefits leading to financial
and economic and fiscal benefits (dis-benefits) arising from the project. Since financial and
economic analysis of the project will be carried out as part of the ICR, if government so
wishes, its report could more usefully comment on the effects of the project from its own
perspective.
(g)    Lessons learned should be based on the analysis in the foregoing sections.



-48 -
APPENDIX-B
BORROWER'S EVALUATION AND SUMMARY OF
OPERATIONAL PLAN



- 49 -
Appendix B
Borrower's Evaluation and Summary of Operational Plan
1992-FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
IDA CREDIT NO. 2468-PAK
BORROWER's EVALUATION
Borrower's Assessment
(a)    Project Objectives
Pakistan had exceptionally heavy rainfall during 1992-monsoon season. It caused
unusual floods in the rivers, particularly in the rivers Jhelum and Chenab. Exceptionally
high floods and heavy down pour caused colossal damage to public infrastructure such as
Irrigation and Flood Protection Works, roads and bridges, institutional buildings, railways,
power generation and power distribution system. Also damaged were private property and
agricultural crops along with loss of life. GOPakistan promptly undertook emergency
measures to meet with the situation. Immediate measures were taken by the respective
departments to restore the damaged facilities at critical locations. The damage was
widespread in all the four provinces of Pakistan as well as in Azad Jammu and Kashmir. It
required huge amount of funds to restore the damaged infrastructure, as early as possible to
minimize its economic and social impact. GOPakistan approached external financing
agencies to assist in implementing the 1992-Flood Damage Restoration project. IDA and
ADB responded positively after appraisal of the project. KfW joined after sometime.
The part of project co-financed by IDA involved restoration of public infrastructure
destroyed or damaged during the 1992-flood events.  The components of public
infrastructure included in the project comprised; roads and bridges, irrigation and floods
protection works, primary schools and basic health facilities.  Other damaged
infrastructure was planned to be restored by the GOPakistan/Local Authorities through their
own sources.
The above sectors of the infrastructure form basic instruments for economic and
social activities. These were rightly given priority for the external financing to restore these
facilities at the earliest to bring the economic, social and environmental condition to normal
for the general public. In each province and AJ&K, extent and nature of the damaged
facilities varied. The project targets were established accordingly. The type of damages,
addressed under this project, in each sector, is detailed in the following pages.
(b)    Project Preparation/Design
Federal Flood Commission (FFC) of the GOPakistan promptly engaged National
Engineering Services of Pakistan (NESPAK) to work as Supervisory Consultants (SC) for
this Project. SC compiled the Project Report based on the lists of damages provided by the
concerned departments i.e., C&W, Irrigation, Education and Health departments of the four



-50 -
provinces as well as AJ&K and National Highway Authority. Estimates for the cost of
restoration works were rationalized by SC on random sampling. Appraisal Missions of IDA
and ADB visited various damaged sites and held detailed discussions with the federal and
provincial officials. Types of components/damages to be included for restoration in each of
the above noted sectors were identified/established, as noted hereunder.
(i)    National/Provincial Roads and Bridges
Components/Type of Damages.
-     Reconstruction of damaged roads including road embankments, pavements,
culverts, small bridges and related ancillary works;
-     Repairs of breaches and damaged roads, providing additional flood
protection works and slope stabilization (including drainage vents, and
culverts needed for passing larger flows in reconstructed road sections);
-     Construction of the seven major bridges; and
-     Procurement of removable steel bridges.
(ii)   Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Protection Works
Components/Type of Damages.
Irrigation System: Repair of breaches and canal banks; removal of silt
deposited by flood water; repair/reconstruction of control structures, bridges,
outlets and irrigation buildings, such as gauge huts, accommodations and
offices.
-     Drainage System: Desilting of drainage channels, repair/reconstruction of
inlet structures, repair of breaches and other ancillary works.
-     Flood Protection Works: Repair of breaches and restoration of eroded
embankments; repair of hydraulic structures; and restoration of river control
spurs.
-     Dams and Weirs: Repair of damaged structures located in the irrigation
schemes requiring restoration of embankments, aprons, spillways and outlet
control structures, and stone pitching.
-     Barrages: Repair of control gate and operating mechanisms; reinstatement
of stonework protection on guide bunds and in downstream aprons; and
restoration of earthwork on guide and marginal bunds.
(iii)   Primary Education and Basic Health Facilities
Components/Types of damages
-     Repair of buildings, and ancillary structures and/or construction;
Rehabilitation and/or construction of sanitary facilities; and



- 51 -
Repair and/or replacement of basic furniture and fixtures needed to render
facilities fully operational.
The cost of restoration works in each province/AJ&K for the above categories of damages
was estimated and reproduced in the 'Appraisal' contained in the Memorandum of the
President of the IDA (Report No. P-5928-PAK). The cost estimates were in accordance with
the damage reports submitted by the concerned departments and compiled by NESPAK,
excluding works in the Northern Areas, NHA works under execution by FWO and
improvement of flood forecasting/warning system.
Mid-term Project Review, as part of the project design played a significant role in looking
back on the performance of various agencies involved in implementation and making
necessary adjustments in the project targets. 1994-Flood/Rains event also had a marked
effect on implementation. Progress was not only delayed in all sectors, but some additional
damages were added to the restoration works in various sectors. IDA response towards
tackling this additional liability was commendable. The project was reformulated to include
some critical damages of 1994-floods in addition to the general increase in the scope of
ongoing restoration works.
(c)   Implementation
(i)   Institutional Arrangements: The project being multi-sectoral and spread all over
Pakistan and AJ&K was to be implemented by several provincial and federal agencies. it was
arranged to have coordination cells at the federal and provincial levels.  Federal
Coordination Cell headed by Federal Project Coordinator (Chief Engineer-Floods) was
established in the office of the Chief Engineering Advisor/Chairman Federal Flood
Commission. Each Province and AJ&K had respective Provincial Project Coordinators
(PPCs). Sectoral Coordinator for each Implementing Agency was installed in the case of
management of ADB funded works.
(ii)   Financial Arrangements: The Project envisaged 90 percent funding from IDA while
10 percent counter-part funding was to be provided by GOPakistan/provinces. 'Special
Accounts' (funds provided by IDA) were opened in each province/AJ&K to be operated by
the respective Provincial Project Coordinators. These contained revolving funds for which
initial deposits, varied according to the size of portfolio of the IDA funded works in each
province. The PPCs could make payments to the contractors from the 'special accounts' and
apply for replenishment.
(iii) Implementation Agencies (IAs): The Implementing agencies involved to carry out
the restoration work and respective scope of works are listed as follows:



- 52 -
Implementing
Agency/Departments                 Scope of Works
(a)     NHA under GOP, Ministry of       Designated highways throughout
Communication.                   Pakistan.
(b)     Provincial Departments of        Provincial roads, farm to market
Communication and Works          roads and basic health units in all
(C&WDs) and same for AJ&K.       provinces and AJ&K. In NWFP
C&W D is also responsible for
component of primary school
buildings.
(c)     Provincial Departments of Irrigation   Irrigation, drainage, flood control and
(PIDs)                           river training facilities.
(d)     Provincial Departments of Education   Education Institutions and facilities
(PEDs) in Punjab, Sindh and AJ&K.   including primary schools.
After establishment of portfolio, on approval of the sub-project summaries, each IA, framed
Detailed Sub-Project Proposals (DSPs) based on detailed condition survey. These proposals
were forwarded to the SC, for verification, review and clearance for implementation. The
SC scrutinized each DSP, technically and checked eligibility of the components therein
vis-a-vis agreed criteria.
In some cases, there had been difference of opinion on eligibility of certain damages e.g.,
comments from the PPC (Sindh) are re-produced below.
"Irrigation Department of Sindh has reservation of turning down the schemes involving
restoration of berms of channels eroded due to unavoidable abnormal regulation during flood
for sole purpose to save the canals from major mishaps. Abrupt rise and fall of levels in
canals, damaged the banks through leaks and breaches, on one hand during rise, and
disturbed/deshaped and shortened berm width with repeated occurrence of slips during fall.
This happened along the channels having discharge rmore than 1500 cusecs or having depth
more than 7.0 ft. FDRP-94 sub-projects were accepted irrespective of Design requirement of
channel on working discharge, with plea that each scheme should be confined to cover the
scope of damages only.
River Bunds which were heavily affected by rain gharas were also not selected in FDRP-94
for redressing. Fact behind was that such rain gharas which were timely and promptly
closed by scraping needed earth from bund itself were providing seldom evidence of
damages and inadequacy, and bunds appeared O.K. at a glance to NESPAK team. But
damages to Bunds did occur during floods and various reaches became porous, teared,
deteriorated delevelled, having ups and downs on top and along slopes, and needed at least 1
ft cover of good earth over surface area and proper rolling for compaction, but such schemes
were not entertained by NESPAK team, reason best known to them."



- 53 -
(iv)   Technical Assistance. The Supervisory consultants (NESPAK) were inducted by
FFC right on the outset of the project. It helped in formulation of the initial report on
damages caused by 1992-flood events, followed by Project Report without any loss of time,
they had an important role of advising the field staff of the implementing agencies in
application of the agreed project procedures, top supervision for quality control and
certification of quantities. They regularly identified issues impeding progress, and were
instrumental in identifying defective works and irregularities of procedures and inaccuracies
of measurement and in all cases effectively assisted the lAs to implement the project as per
the Credit guidelines. NESPAK staff was always available to the field engineers of the
Departments for explaining the Bank's procedures and guidelines for procurements of
works. The SC prepared project specific manuals for quality assurance which were
distributed to the field engineers of lAs for guidance and compliance. These manuals were
of immense help to the field staff in the execution of work. NESPAK's role in supervision
of works had significant effect on the quality of works procured under this Project which
showed marked improvement as compared to other works that are executed by lAs.
NESPAK's interaction with the lAs and FFC has been positive contribution to the successful
completion of the project.
The major bridges were let out on the basis of design and construct tenders aimed to
expeditiously complete re-construction. Technical review carried out by the SC resulted in
raising the deck levels with reference to actual flood marks at site. The bridge sites had to be
changed and omitted approaches in the scope of work were introduced. Timely review of the
tenders already accepted by NHA, saved the project from making significant errors on major
bridges; SC also wetted the designs of three major bridges.
When the project was extended for one year until December 31, 1997, the services of the
consultants were also extended.
Due vigilance was exercised while making assessment for DSP components to ensure
eligibility to be in accordance with the agreed criteria. As an example, the issues raised by
the PPC Sindh and noted under para. C (iii) above were not concurred to as proposed by IA
on technical/criteria grounds. The damages downstream of major structures caused by
erosion through excessive discharges were allowed to be rectified by providing stone-
pitching. But placing stone-pitting due to erosion of berms in long stretches of channels
were not allowed. It was tantamount to remodeling of system for higher discharges, with
huge expenses. It was considered beyond the scope of this project. Similarly placement of
I ft cover of the earthen x-section with fixed centerline, such assessment was doubtful.
However it was ensured that the existing bunds had sufficient x-section to cover the
saturation line. Restoration of longtime abundant, totally ruined pump houses at scattered
locations, were not included. However pump houses, partially operative and having battery
of pumps at outfall of drainage systems, were restored. As such, efforts undertaken by the
SC in verification and considering the components on basis of the laid down criteria/merit
were commendable.
(d)    Operational Experience
The project involved restoration of infrastructure, damaged by 1992-flood events, relating
to roads, bridges, irrigation, drainage, flood protection works, primary education buildings
and basic health facilities. This infrastructure was under control of various provincial



- 54 -
departments and National Highway Authority. The provincial departments have existed
historically and have been carrying out similar works but on smaller scale. However, the
project provided those departments opportunity to carry out the gigantic task required to
restore the damage. The project also made the staff of lAs familiar with the procedures of
IDA and other foreign donor agencies. The project provided on-job experience to the staff
of lAs.
2.    Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
(i)    There was prompt response toward formulation of 1992-FDRP and reporting of
1994-Flood damages which resulted in reformulation of 1992-FDRP to accommodate critical
damages due to 1994-flood events. Coordination C'ells in the Federal Flood Commission
(FFC) and those at the provincial level were established. Services of the Supervisory
Consultants were put in use without any waste of time. All these initiatives helped take off
the project without usual delays in projects of such like diversity and magnitude. The project
was launched and various level workshops/introductory seminars were held with participants
from all implementing agencies. Condition surveys for the DSPs were carried out according
to the agreed format and these were scrutinized by the SC according to the IDA guideline for
eligibility and reviewed for technical soundness. GOPakistan provided bridge financing
during the retroactive period and also after 1994-Flood event to meet the emergency
requirements.
(ii)   There have been delays in execution of subprojects in some sectors due to various
reasons such as: (a) absconding of contractors due to unreasonably low bids; (b) increase in
scope of work due to 1994-Flood or to the site conditions; (c) delay in payment to the
contractors because of cashflow problem; and (d) requisite revised clearance.
(iii)  In a few cases there have been more frequent changes of Provincial Coordinators. It
hampered progress considerably. It is natural for a new incumbent to take stock of things
and understanding of the project before contributing towards resolving of the prevailing
issues.
(iv)   In the case of IDA, a provincial coordinator was responsible for all sectors in that
province. The "Special Account" operated by the Provincial Coordinator from one agency
sometimes affected the progress of implementation in case of sub-projects belonging to the
other implementation agency. As in the case of C&W (Punjab), some sub-projects could not
be completed due to lack of coordination/communication amongst C&W and Irrigation
departments.
(v)    Two of the major NHA bridges i.e., at Kaliari and Azad Pattan could not be
constructed due to delay in processing of International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
contractual actions and, later on, failure in commitment on the part of the lowest bidder
(from Iran).
(vi)   Lack of bridge financing was experienced by various sectors. Delay in forwarding
the payment documents for reimbursement was one major reason for such situation. Had
there been more frequent replenishment of the special accounts, the said shortage of funds
could have been reduced to a large extent. In some cases the amount of initial deposit of the
special account was found too small in comparison with the requirements. As in case of



- 55 -
Balochistan, initial deposit was US$ 0.200 million only. Time and again, the Special
Account was totally depleted. Total amount of Rs. 34 million was replenished through the
Special Account and Rs. 113.5 million was reimbursed through the local funding.
(vii) The borrower, through the concerned Implementing Agencies (lAs), has been able
to complete targets of the project to a large extent.
(viii) There has been excellent monitoring of the project activities, progress reporting and
coordination among the co-financiers, FFC and lAs through the SC.
(ix)   There has been remarkable performance on the part of Federal Flood Commission in
arranging approval of PC-1 and appointment of SC (pre-requisites for effectiveness of the
Credit), coordination among the concerned agencies, having excellent working relations with
all and having objective approach to various issues encountered during preparation and
successful implementation of the project.
(x)    Major covenant was to provide annual audit -reports, to be submitted within six
months of end of a financial year. These were supplied by the lAs.
3.     Evaluation of Bank Performance (and Co-Financiers)
(i)    The IDA lost no time in getting fully involved in monitoring of the unprecedented
flood emerging right from September 10, 1992. Contacts were established with the
concerned quarters from the GOPakistan. Simultaneously, IDA liaised with other funding
agency (ADB). On getting request from the GOP, appraisal of the restoration project,
formulated by the FFC on getting lists of damages from the affected agencies, was carried
out along with the ADB team. As a result of the appraisal and consequent recommunications
from President of the IDA to the Executive Directors (IDA), the credit of SDR 72.8 million
(US$100 million) was approved. Agreement for IDA Credit No. 2468-PAK was signed on
19 May, 1993, for the 1992-Flood Damage Restoration Project. ADB also contributed an
equivalent amount of US$100 million for this project. Moreover about US$50 million were
made available out of the already on-going World Bank/IDA funded projects having similar
activities as envisaged for 1992-FDRP. At later stage, KfW (Government of Germany) also
committed DM. 15.00 million to participate in the restoration work.
(ii)   IDA and other cofinanciers extended full cooperation remaining within the laid
down limits for successful implementation of the Project. Periodic supervisory missions
conducted over the project life have been very useful. During such missions, various work
sites were visited, performance of each implementing agency reviewed and all related issues,
such as delays in completion, necessity of bridge financing, and quality control, etc., were
addressed and the relevant lAs were advised. As a result of periodical monitoring of the
progress, target dates for clearance of sub-project and those for award of contracts were
fixed. It helped greatly in activating the concerned lAs and was instrumental in achieving
the planned targets.
(iii)  IDA responded positively whenever some necessary changes in the scope of work
were identified and the co-financing agency concurrence was sought.



-56 -
(iv)   IDA advised the SC to carry out study for better solution of the recurrent landslides
on Kohala-Muzaffarabad road. Detailed study, including geo-seismic survey of the area,
was carried out, and cost effective and innovative solutions were proposed for 15 slides. The
IDA agreed for procurement of works proposed by the study for three landslides sites as a
pilot scheme.
(v)    There has been contribution from IDA towards saving time while concurring to the
FFC proposal for construction of four out of the six major NHA bridges through the LCB
contracts which were already in the process of being awarded by the N1HA.
(vi)  IDA, as per usual reaction to any such like emergent situation in Pakistan, responded
positively towards the additional damages caused in 1994-flood/rain event. Appraisal of the
damages was carried out, and damage lists were reviewed and analyzed. Criteria was
established by the ID team to identify the 1994-flood damages in various sectors for
inclusion in the 1992-FDRP through its reformulation.
(vii)   While the project was in initial stage of implementation, annual flood/rain in 1994
and also in 1995, not only hampered the progress on the on-going sub-projects, but also
increased damages at some of the already identified sites. The lAs had to tackle these
damages simultaneously and considerable time was lost thereby. While the specified credit
closing date, i.e., December 31, 1996 was approaching, the desired progress on 1992-FDRP
works was lagging far behind the target. The cofinanciers were approached for extension of
the credit closing dates. IDA and KfW extended the credit up to December 31, 1997, and
ADB gave extension up to June 30, 1997.
(viii) Retention monies becoming due after December 31, 1997, were not reimbursable as
per procedure of the IDA. It caused considerable amount to be left un-reimbursed. This
non-reimbursement has further added to the liabilities of the already-pressed GOP resources.
It is pertinent to mention that the works worth the retention monies have been executed and
existed at the sites.
4.    Plan for Operational Phase of the Project
The Project program has covered repair and restoration of federal and provincial flood damaged
public infrastructure, comprising roads, bridges, irrigation, drainage, flood protection works, primary
education and basic health facilities. The infrastructure is under various provincial departments
except highways with National Highway Authority (NHA) which is federal government controlled
entity. The repair, rehabilitation or reconstruction under this project have been carried out by the
same departments/agencies that are responsible for the operation and maintenance of the sector
facilities as well. The project has therefore not resulted in any changes in ownership. It has not
increased their existing inventory either.
The implementing agencies have prepared an O&M plan for the facilities restored. Those are to be
maintained with the existing staff and budgets provided by respective governments. However, there
have always been the fiscal constraints which created gaps between the funding required for
adequate maintenance and the actual spending.
It is intended to take a number of steps, both short term and long term, to use funding more
effectively, take initiatives to search sources for stable funding, review baselines (yardsticks and



- 57 -
service needs) to determine adequate level of funding, review establishment costs compared with
real term allocations to works, and develop indicators as follows. It has been planned to undertake
measures and initiatives to:
establish adequate funding levels;
rationalize procedures so that scarce resources at present are effectively used;
take initiatives to establish dependable source of funding, reduce management cost, improve
effectiveness of expenditures and principles of accountability;
GOP is anxious to evolve an effective strategy and arrive at a practical plan for its
implementation to prevent the infrastructures reaching levels of destruction.
The actions proposed to be taken are indicated in the O&M plan, separately submitted.
5.     Lessons Learned.
(i)    Detailed Sub-projects Proposals (DSPs) should be thoroughly prepared to avoid
subsequent increase in the scope of work requiring revised clearance which delays
completion.
(ii)   Frequent transfers of AEN and XENs caused ineffectiveness thereby some of the
sub-projects suffered lack of completion due to actions not taken at appropriate time by field
officers who required time to become familiar with the requirement of the Project. Field
officers should not be changed frequently.
(iii)  IA should have preferred payments to contractors on sub-projects after having
clearance from Consultants on exactness and correctness of progress achieved.
(iv)   The officers making payments should be procedurally made responsible for getting
the payment reimbursed promptly.
(v)    IDA required one Project Coordinator in each Province to coordinate activities of the
Project for I&P, C&W and Health Sectors. Experience has shown that the provision did not
help in expeditious processing of estimates, procurement and reimbursement documents, etc.
It would have been much more effective and productive with separate coordinators for each
sector to ensure expeditious disposal of all kind of documentation required for successful
implementation of a project.
(vi)   Provincial Project Coordinators should not be changed after small durations except
in case of unavoidable circumstances.
(vii)  In AJ&K, there is procedure of getting counter offers from the tenderers in case of
exceptionally high bid rates. But in case of this project, retendering required to be carried
out after getting concurrence from the IDA. The later procedure has been, in some cases,
cause of delay in completion of sub-projects. Time taken in retendering and getting
concurrence for the same goes waste. It needs to be considered if the procedure in vogue can
be allowed.



- 58 -
(viii)  Progress should be properly monitored by an IA and efforts undertaken to get the
sub-projects completed well in time to claim reimbursement for the retention money.
(ix)   The use of amended SFMR documents for procurement of works exceeding Rs. 15.0
million in the C&W sector contributed towards improvement of contractorship and quality
product. However, it would have been more appropriate if contractors for larger works had
been prequalified.
(x)    Time taken in getting concurrence of the Bank on increase of the contract cost
beyond 15 percent could be saved if the SC were authorized to do so under intimation to the
Bank.
(xi)  Increased amount of the initial deposit in the Special Accounts could have solved the
problem of bridge financing to a larger extent.
(xii)   When the credit closing date had been extended up to December 31, 1997,
curtailment of reimbursement to 1992-Flood works beyond December 31, 1996 did not have
much logic/justification. Otherwise the foreclosed works would have been physically
completed and retention moneys paid comfortably.
(xiii) Retention Money (RM) is kept for defects liability period of a contract. Otherwise
the work worth that money has already been carried out and the liability accrued by the
concerned lAs. Methodology needs to be evolved for advance reimbursement of RM to an
IA, which can be paid on end of the defect liability period to the contractor. It will increase
period for the physical work and also save the borrower from un-called for liabilities after
the credit closing date.
(xiv)  Completion of five major NHA bridges procured through LCB has proved
availability of technical know-how in Pakistan for such like works. The two left out bridges
(Kaliari and Azad Pattan) could also be completed if they had been procured locally.
(xv)   Had the above points been given due consideration, the credit could be utilized to its
full extent and the chance of cancellation of its some part (as at present) would not have
occurred.
(xvi)  Preparation of O&M plan by the LAs as part of their input for the ICR, has provided
chance to critically review the prevailing situation. The requirements, availability of funds,
actual implementation and importance of monitoring through performance indicators has
come to surface. It has been instrumental in making the concerned quarters realize that the
planned and proper O&M of the infrastructure will not only provide efficient service but also
save repeated heavy investments.
Summary of Future Operation Plan
Investment through the Project amounted to Rs. 3500 million: 48 percent in flood protection
and irrigation sector; 49 percent in communication; and three percent in basic health and primary
education. The works formed part of large infrastructures, annual O&M cost of those are nearly
Rs. 15000 million. The project works are scattered all over Pakistan and AJ&K and cannot be



- 59 -
separated for O&M purposes. The implementing agencies are the asset owners in their sectors and
are also responsible for O&M Institutions and procedures are historically in place.
The departments/agencies receive annual maintenance funds annually through budgetary allocations
from provincial government. Annual demands are usually based on yardsticks and are in routine
approved by Finance Departments on July 01, before those are released at quarterly interval at
present.
For sustainability a steady O&M regime with reliable source of funding is recognized. Severe
financial constraints with GOP and GoProvinces has restricted maintenance funds actually applied to
works. At present the level of maintenance, in general, is recognized to be deficient due to funding
constraint and also due to inefficient application of funds and inadequate monitoring. During the
past five to seven years the annual increase in allocation has, in many cases been about seven percent
but in real terms the increase has been negative.
The fiscal constraints have resulted in gaps between the demand by the departments and allocations
made by the Finance Department. The apparent gaps in FY 96, for example, for sector irrigation and
flood control were: Punjab 35 percent; Sindh 62 percent; NWFP 57 percent; Balochistan 55 percent,
and for sector C&W were: NWFP 54 percent; AJK 46 percent; and NHA 69 percent. Bridging the
gaps ultimately compared with "adequate funding level" is the objective. While it is hoped that
funding level will improve, it would be unrealistic that "full requirements" will be met immediately.
But GOP is anxious to evolve an effective strategy and reach at a practical plan for its
implementation to prevent the infrastructures reaching the level of destruction.
The maintenance of all type of infrastructures is under focus of GOP at present. A number of actions
are underway to improve the situation. There is an ongoing ADB/NDF road management project on
which consultants are working to help provincial C&Ws to update inventories and introduce modem
maintenance system based on annual road condition survey. Innovative arrangements are being
developed as part of the proposed Highway Rehabilitation Project for the progressive
commercialization of the roads and mobilization of resources for O&M through user charge. In
irrigation and flood control sector policy changes have been initiated and PIDAs (Provincial
Irrigation and Drainage Authorities) have born. These are aimed to move rapidly towards self
sustainability for O&M in particular. O&M issues are also addressed as part of institutional reforms
initiated under the National Drainage Program Project recently. Sectors basic health and primary
education have small investment at, only 3 percent in this project, but these are being focused under
SAPP (Social Action Program Project) for the same purpose.
GOP proposes to take a number of steps, both short terms and long term: to use funding more
effectively, take initiatives to reach sources for stable funding, take steps to restrict over use of the
works (restrict axle loads on roads and capacity control on running of irrigation works), review
baseline (yardsticks and service needs) to determine adequate level of funding, review establishment
costs with real terms allocation to works and develop various monitoring indicators such as those
given in the Plan.
For the three years FY 99 to FY 01, GOP propose to provide funds annually increasing at 10 percent
while simultaneously taking other corrective actions aimed to improve the maintenance situation at
present. Proposed short terms actions to reduce establishment cost, rationalize procedures so that
scarce resources are effectively used, intensify monitoring and principles of accountability, when



- 60 -
accountability, when carried out with political will and commitment is expected to bring a good turn
about in the levels of maintenance even at the current rates of funding.



- 61 -
APPENDIX-C
MAPS



IRRD 24352R
ma              j  \<PAKISTAN                                                                                                                                                       V   \
ISLAMIC REP.                       ! \                                             1992 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
? .   \                                            1992 MONSOON RAIN AND FLOOD AFFECTED AREAS                                                                                   ; 
OF IRAN                                 \                               
OF   IS                                                                         iTT,0R  150   200    250   300    350   40 KILOMETERS                                                          /  0
!                .                                                                       TOD  5  ,0O  150      200         250MILESOSILS 
TAJIKISTAN
A F G H A N I S T A N
z--   5                                                -          F-'                 ,<t._                                         si \\ . ,"A _f ,x ,_ ~~'.,hki Q-tt
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
. *                                               it        M t     
; ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~*aa                                                                                                  OO.'f19FODAFCEAESIl '.DMADEEVIR     ITITEDUATR  Koo  ,,-'hko 
BALOCHIS TAN  PROVINCE                                                            *    /                /                                ,
fhp ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~    ~     ao Dooor Un ofTocEoEoL.ro''>-^<FLO  MANMNS,'>/                                                                                                2
Thehvndcrioc,colorl,cinominetbns    )                i    /           IRR~~~~IGAIONANL                                                                                                           bdPOICBONAIS',. .<
0Z'.
Khuedorh.. K                                                                                          -
/n IhA l go/odhls olrrage ony /n5il  or   Ih
any ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     o onddhomn or Icehcoo  
R.hi.y.r ~      ~         {    Roooohtfmtu~
cuchhundon".                 >      '       4>^4   ;        ,o9                                                               A                                        aa                              ¢~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CHINA ~
'                                                      '0,4,- Do..                199
1992 FLOOD AFFECTED AREAS  Iq~  D.OAlS AND RESERVOIRS    * DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS                    1
1992 RAIN AFFECTED AREAS   0-    RARRAGES/HEADWORKS5     I    PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS                   '      jDa6
This mop tasprodud by f.                                                                                                         ANDNRESERVOIR                NATIONAL CAPITAL 
Rio9 Design UinT o The P/add Sank.                                                                                       OOOFLOOD EMRANKMENTS                                                                                              i,
Th, onais onsdnmahn                                                                             IRRIGATION CANALS              RIES-- PROVINCE ROUNDARIES 
IN Wd    - ".Ply, ianrm.a show an                                                                                                                     ----INSINTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES
The World Bank DG-p, aay judgmet                                                                                                DRY LAKESIN                                                                    A
-ny edorementoracEptane o
.1CHINA
such baandariee. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUE19



lBRD 29603
PAKISTAN                                                                .           \ " 06
ISLAMIC REP.                                  1992 FLOOD DAMAGE RESTORATION PROJECT
ISLAMIC REP.                     /   \                                              1994 MONSOON RAIN AND FLOOD AFFECTED AREAS
OF   IRAN                    /          \                                                     0      S     100   150   200   250   300   350   400 KILOMETERS
0 j   \   f50        lOS        150        200        250 MILES
N \                                                                                                                                         /                 ( TAJIKISTAN
}s   \                                           -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A F G H A N I S T A N1                                                               ._   o..
7  'N                                                                                                                      Ic~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c'.
] ~ ~     ~     ~      0       /                                                iKI              0,    '7'  -.*                         ,/ *Wr                 #J Re                                                                \
: z-4   ></                               t                     +            S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o                            M-o <---000 NiRH                                  :, t*'
0~~~~~~~
o               CoO   0         e                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~h/  W
BALOCHISTAN PROVINCE    0o 0o   0' 0                                            *    /                            OO _            ,o                                             , F
Kdor(, 1                                994 RA I     N AECTEDAREAS  -                                          BARR          AGES/SL B POVINCE HfS  e N-  roo d
tMdonyoNherinrormolionshownon ~ ~ ~  ~         ~        ~         ~        Sib         0            0 DRIN                ---NENTOABOUNDRIE Mino                    T}Q,botbo'- 
0  C            'Nosirobod          ~         ~          ~wC                                                 Kh ,       'o           ErI 
It'         20';  V                          j                           fIh  f0ff ... bjd
l   0 tto logol ShtW 0/ Ont h rrJhory, orSOT$0                                                                                                                         Dolco,SI
,I  */~~~'  i,A-LSt4tL   Rohi,nA~~~~~~~~          a~4s~~~-             0                            o?RoIo'   10              dhm,
H'b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hn onybndonBoorolnogoior                     (                                                                                              'O             t( OCHIN
svcb~~~~~~~~0 00 0 0 0                             bounNdoriog.                                                                                                                      F"'-   ,    Po g T  oo
*  -  1994 FLOOD AFFECTED AREAS  t R- DAMS AND RESERVOIRS  *   DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS                             Poiidohooir    '...       '1
I               ~~~~~~1 994 RAIN AFFECTED AREAS  B ARPAGES/HEADWORKS    ®9  PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS 
v'   L,        'N                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND RESERVOIRS                                                                       'o /
TRio o oo pd-do. by A.                   --      -        N/                                  LINK CANALS                    FLOOD EMEANKMENTS             NATIONAL CAPITAL
Mop D.oign 59Mi o Th. Wodd Bank.                                                                                                                           PRV C'OU0AIE
Thobdnoyl.r                                                                                  IRRIGATION 05CANALS             RIVERS
Bhiooropdonotimp/yoorh.paoof                  N                   /~~~I        DRAINS                         STLKSINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                     lIBI                                 i     1
Ah - J.odr.o  or oooptoocf. o."f
oucH boondool.s.  \0o(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                r-. ~~~CHINA
JUNE 1998



