CREDIT NUMBER 2468 PAX
Development Credit Agreement
(1992 Flood Damage Restoration Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2468 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        NJ_                  , 1993, between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN actingly its President (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   by agreement dated March 29, 1993      (the ADB Loan
Agreement), the Asian Development Bank, (ADB) has agreed to make a
loan (the ADB Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to seventy-one million seven hundred thirty-two thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 71,732,000) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the ADB Loan
Agreement;
(C)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower's National Highway Authority (NHA), and Part B of the
Project will be carried out by the Borrower's Province of Punjab
(Punjab), Province of Sindh (Sindh), North West Frontier Province
(NWFP) and Province of Balochistan (Balochistan), and by Azad Jammu
and Kashmir (AJK), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NHA, Punjab,
Sindh, NWFP, Balochistan and AJK the proceeds of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, NHA, Punjab,
Sindh, NWFP, Balochistan and AJK;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the lait sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "NRA" means the National Highway Authority established
under the Borrower's National Highway Authority Act, 1991, as the
same may be amended from time to time;
(b)   "National Highway System" means the system of highways,
bridges and other related structures designated as such pursuant to
a decision of the Borrower;
(C)   "MWP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water and Power;
(d)   "FFC" means the Federal Flood Commission referred to in
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, on the one hand, and NHA, Punjab, Sindh, NWFP,
Balochistan and AJK, on the other hand, of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)   "Punjab" means the Province of Punjab, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(g)   "Sindh" means the Province of Sindh, a political
subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(h)   "NWFP" means the North West Frontier Province, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(i)   "Balochistan" means the Province of Balochistan, a
political subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(j)   "Provinces" mean collectively Punjab, Sindh, NWFP and
Balochistan, and "Province" means each or any of the Provinces;
(k)   "AJK" means the territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir, or
any successor thereto;
(1)   "P&DB" means the Planning and Development Board of
Punjab;


﻿-3-
(i)   "P&DD" means the Planning and Development Department of
Sindh, NWFP, Balochistan or AJK, as the case may be;
(n)   "PID" means a Provincial Irrigation Department;
(0)   "CEWD" means a Provincial Communications and Works
Department or AJK's Communications and Works Department, as the case
may be;
(p)   "PED" means a Provincial Education Department;
(q)   "Implementing Agencies" mean NHA, PIDs, C&WDs, and PEDs
collectively; and "Implementing Agency" means each of those agencies
individually;
(r)   "PFDRC" means each or any of the Provincial Flood Damage
Restoration Cells or AJK's Flood Damage Restoration Cell, as the
case may be, referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
(s)   "FFC Special Account" means the account which the
Borrower shall open and maintain for FFC pursuant to the provisions
of Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(t)   "NHA Special Account" means the account which NHA shall
open and maintain pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
(u)   "Punjab Special Account" means the account which Punjab
shall open and maintain pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
(v)   "Sindh Special Account" means the account which Sindh
shall open and mainta..., pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement wrd Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
(w)   "NWFP Special Account" means the account which NWFP
shall open and maintain pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
(x)   "Balochistan Special Account" means the account which
Balochistan shall open and maintain pursuant to the provisions of
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the
Project Agreement;


﻿-4-
(y)   "AJK Special Account" meais the account which AJK shall
open and maintain pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
(z)   "Special Accounts" mean collectively the FFC Special
Account, the NHA Special Account, the Punjab Special Account, the
Sindh Special Account, the NWFP Special Account, the Balochistan
Special Account and the AJK Special Account; and "Special Account"
means each or any of the Special Accounts;
(aa) "Major Bridges" mean collectively the bridge on Kunhar
River at Garhi Habibullah and the bridge at Khanpur, both in NWFP,
and the bridges on Jhelum River at Kohala, Kaliari, Karrot, Azad
Pattan and Mangla, all in Punjab, all to be constructed under the
Project; and
(bb) "FY" or "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the
Borrower or NHA or a Proviaze or AJK, as the case may be, covering
the period July 1 through June 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy-two million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 72,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) for the -purposes of the
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, open and maintain in dollars a
special deposit account for FFC; (ii) for the purposes of Part A of
the Project, cause NHA to open and maintain in dollars a special
deposit account; and (iii) for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, cause the Provinces and AJK to open and maintain in dollars
special deposit accounts, all in the National Bank of Pakistan on


﻿-5-
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be -ade in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment =charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15, 2003 and enditg September 15, 2027. Each
installment  to   and   including  the   installment  payable  on


﻿-6-
September 15, 2012 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due urtil the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The following are designated as representatives
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Chairman, FFC, in respect of the consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit;
(b)   the Chairman, 9HA, in respect of Part A of the Project;


﻿-7-
(c)   the Chairman, P&DB, Punjab, in respect of Punjab's
activities under Part B of the Project;
(d)   the Additional Chief Secretary (Development), P&DD,
Sindh, in respect of Sindh's activities under Part B of the Project;
(e)   the Additional Chief Secretary, P&DD, NWFP, in respect
of NWFP's activities under Part B of the Project;
(f)   the Additional Chief Secretary, P&DD, Balochistan, in
respect of Balochistan's activities under Part B of the Project; and
(g)   the Additional Chief Secretary, P&DD, AJK, in respect of
AJK's activities under Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)   shall carry out its activities under the Project
through FFC with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices and shall
provide,   promptly   as  needed,   the   funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
for its activities under the Project; and
(ii)   without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, shall cause NHA, the Provinces
and AJK to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of NHA, the Provinces and AJK therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds,
facilities,   services  and   other   resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable NHA, the
Provinces and AJ to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.


﻿-8-
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, and shall cause NHA, the
Provinces and AJK to, carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Except for amounts needed to make payments for the
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Credit available to NHA, the Provinces and AJK
according to need and in the order in which they are able to utilize
such proceeds.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out by NHA, the Provinces and AJK pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures of FFC in respect of the consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statemen:ts of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿-9-
(ii)   ensure  that  all records   (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the   Association's  representatives  to
examine such records.
(c)   The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) (i) of this Section and
those for the FFC Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent    auditors   acceptable    to   the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 10 -
(a) NBA or any of the Provinces or AJ shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NHA or any of
the Provinces or AJK will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower's National Highway Authority Act, 1991, or
any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of NHA to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NHA or for the suspension of its operations.
(e)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the ADB Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
ADB Loan Agreement, or
(B)   the ADB Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,   cancellation,    termination   or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
the ADB Loan Agreement; and (B) adequate funds
for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿- 11 -
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;
(b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
of the Borrower (ECNEC) has approved the umbrella Planning
Commission Proforma 1 (PC-1) document with respect to the Project;
(b)   the contract or contracts for consultants services
required for the purposes of the Project and to be engaged in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been signed; and
(c)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by NHA, the Provinces and AJK and
is legally binding upon NHA, the Provinces and AJK in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary, or Section Officer in that Division of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:                Telex:
ECONOMIC                  5634 ECDIV PK
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Byk
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByE
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works             62,600,000        90%
(2)   Removable                3,700,000        100% of foreign
bridges                                   expenditures
(3)   Consultants'             2,400,000        50%
services
(4)   Unallocated              4,100,000
TOTAL              72,800,000
2.    For the purposes    of this Schedule, the     term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrowe:'.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 14,600,000, may be made in respect
of Categories   (1) and   (2) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after September 10, 1992;
(b)   expenditures for works carried out or goods supplied
under a contract which any national or international financing


﻿- 15 -
institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed or
agreed to finance; and
(c)   expenditures for works carried out or goods supplied
under a contract which the Association or the Bank shall have
financed or agreed to finance out of the proceeds of any other
credit or loan.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
such expenditures and under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 16 -
SCEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower,
the Provinces and AJK in carrying out their program of urgent
restoration of public infrastructure damaged by the 1992 rains and
floods, and thereby (b) to facilitate the expeditious resumption of
vital governmental, commercial and social activity in the rain- and
flood-affected areas.
The Project, which represents a three-year time-slice of said
program, consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Restoration of Federal Facilities
Restoration of roads forming part of the National Highway
System or otherwise falling within the area of responsibility of
NHA,   including   the   provision   and/or   reconstruction   or
repair/rehabilitation of bridges, culverts and other related
structures.
Part B:     Restoration of Provincial/AJK Facilities
Restoration of:
(i)   irrigation,  drainage   and   flood  protection
facilities;
(ii)   roads, other than those forming part of the
National Highway System or otherwise falling
within the area of responsibility of NHA,
including the provision and/or reconstruction of
bridges, culverts and other related structures;
and
(iii)   primary education and basic health facilities,
including the provision of basic furniture and
fixtures.
T  P    *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULN 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Part,
works may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Construction of the Major Bridges shall be carried out under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and X0A Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
3.    Selected irrigation, drainage and flood protection works under
Part B (i) of the Project and works for primary education and basic
health facilities under Part B (iii) of the Project may be carried
out by force account.
4.    Certain works, begun before the date of this Agreement but
after September 10, 1992, may continue, with the specific approval
of the Association in each case, to be:
(a)   carried out by force account; or
(b)   procured by direct contracting without competition or
through variation of existing contracts; or
(c)   procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.    Removable bridges may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).


﻿- 18 -
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.2 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for the construction of
the Major Bridges, for other works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $1,000,000 or more, and for the supply of removable bridges, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 19 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist NHA, the Provinces and AJK in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall, through FFC, employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    Project Implementation
(a)   Responsibility for implementation of the Project shall
be assigned as follows:
(i)   for the roads under Part A of the Project, to
NHA;
(ii)   for the irrigation, drainage and flood protection
facilities under Part B (i) of the Project, to
each PID;
(iii)   for the roads under Part B (ii) of the Project,
the basic health facilities under Part B (iii) of
the Project, and the primary education facilities
in NWFP and AJK under Part B (iii) of the
Project, to each C&WD; and
(iv)   for the primary education facilities in Punjab
and Sindh under Part B (iii) of the Project, to
each PED.
(b)   NHA, each PID, each C&WD and each PED shall, within its
sphere of responsibility, inter alia: (i) select the facilities to
be restored; (ii) acquire land; (iii) prepare plans, designs, and
tender documents in accordance with approved specifications and
procedures and award contracts; (iv) carry out the restoration and
supervise contractors; (v) maintain separate project accounts; (vi)
certify the quantity and quality of completed civil works; (vii)
prepare payment requests for submission to PFDRC; and (viii) make an
appropriate input to the progress reports referred to in paragraph
6 of this Schedule. NHA shall also be responsible, with respect to
Part A of the Project, for operating the NHA Special Account and for
submitting withdrawal applications to the Association. NHA and each
PID, C&WD and PED shall appoint a coordinator for these purposes.
2.    Project Coordination
(a)   Federal/Flood Commission. At the federal level, the
Federal Flood Commission (FFC) in HWP shall coordinate and monitor
overall Project implementation. The FFC shall be headed by a Federal


﻿- 21 -
Project Coordinator assisted by suitable professional and support
staff. The FFC shall, inter alia: (i) appoint the Project
consultants; (ii) prepare and submit withdrawal applications to the
Association in respect of expenditures for consultants' services;
(iii) monitor disbursements and auditing of the Project accounts;
(iv) on the basis of the input made by NHA, each PID, each C&WD and
each PED, prepare and furnish to the Association, in consolidated
form, the progress reports referred to in paragraph 6 of this
Schedule; and (v) on behalf of the Borrower, prepare and furnish to
the Association the Project Completion Report referred in Section
9.06 (e) of the General Conditions.
(b)   Provincial Flood Damage Restoration Cells. At each
provincial level and in AJK, a Provincial Flood Damage Restoration
Cell (PFDRC) shall coordinate overall Project implementation. The
PFDRC shall be headed by a Provincial Project Coordinator assisted
by suitable professional and support staff. The PFDRC shall, inter
alia: (i) operate the relevant Special Account and submit withdrawal
applications to the Association; (ii) monitor the auditing of the
Project accounts; (iii) prepare and furnish to FFC, within 30 days
of each reporting period, quarterly and annual progress reports; and
(iv) make other appropriate input to the reports referred to in
paragraphs 2 (a) (iv) and 6 of this Schedule.
3.    Selection and Restoration of Facilities
(a)   Each Implementing Agency shall, with respect to the
facilities to be restored under its part of the Project;
(i)   select  such  facilities  in   accordance  with
criteria   satisfactory  to   the  Association,
including those set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule;
(ii)   submit each proposal for the restoration such
facilities to the Association for its review and
approval, if such proposal: (A) is estimated to
cost an amouiLt equivalent to $1,000,000 or more;
and/or (B) would, if implemented, entail the
involuntary resettlement of people;
(iii)   carry out the restoration works in accordance
with restoration standards and implementation
arrangements satisfactory to the Association; and


﻿- 22 -
(iv)   prior to the commencement of any such restoration
works, prepare a pre-construction survey of such
facilities in sufficient detail to enable the
Project consultants to verify work quantities and
thereafter make such surveys available for
examination by the Association's representatives
from time to time.
(b)   Each Implementing Agency shall submit each proposal for
the restoration of facilities under the Project to FFC for a
decision by FFC, in consultation with the Association and ADB, as to
whether the facilities under consideration should be proposed for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit or the ADB Loan. In
arriving at such a decision, FFC shall be governed by the
consideration that, to the extent practicable, the Credit and the
ADB Loan be committed simultaneously and in equal proportions.
4.    Restoration Works Files. Each Implementing Agency shall: (a)
maintain a separate file for each set of facilities restored under
the Project, containing, inter alia, pre-construction drawings,
designs, cost estimates, tender notices and documents, tender
evaluation reports, contracts, consultants' inspection notes and
contractors' bills and receipts for payments, together with the
supporting summaries for requests for payments out of the proceeds
of the Credit; and (b) thereafter make such file available for
examination by the Association's representatives from time to time.
5.    Operation and Maintenance. Each Implementing Agency shall be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the facilities
restored by it under the Project, and shall provide the funds,
facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate
for this purpose.
6.    Progress Reports. Pursuant to Section 9.06 of the General
Conditions, FFC shall: (a) not later than sixty (60) days after the
end of each quarter, beginning with the quarter ending June 30,
1993, furnish to the Association, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association, a progress report on the Project for such
quarter; provided, however, that the first such report shall also
cover the quarters ending December 31, 1992 and March 31, 1993; and
(b) not later than sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar
year, beginning with the year ending December 31, 1993, furnish to
the Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, a progress report on the Project for such year.


﻿- 23 -
7.    Mid-Term Review. FFC shall, in association with the PFDRCs and
the Implementing Agencies, and acting jointly with the Association
in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association,
carry out, not later than May 31, 1994, a mid-term overall review of
the Project, and shall thereafter make such adjustments in the
activities being carried out under the Project and the related
organizational and operational arrangements as may be warranted in
the light of such review and agreed with the Association.


﻿- 24 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
Criteria for the Selection
of Facilities to be Restored
Facilities shall be eligible for restoration under the Project
only if they shall:
(a)   be located in an area affected by the 1992 rains and
floods;
(b)   have been damaged, directly or indirectly, by the 1992
rains and floods, or be of such a nature that, if not restored,
would degrade or severely diminish the effectiveness of other
facilities being restored under the Project;
(c)   not involve merely the carrying out of works of a flood-
fighting or provisional nature needed to restore traffic (except in
the case of provincial roads on which works have been or are waiting
to be carried out under Bank- or other Association-financed
projects), irrigation and flood protection on an interim or
emergency basis and which would subsequently be replaced by works
carried out to appropriate construction standards;
(d)   not involve merely the carrying out of what are
essentially in the nature of non-flood-related deferred maintenance
works;
(e)   not involve the carrying out of works which have an
adverse effect on natural ecosystems and the environment; and
(f) not involve the carrying out of works by the military or
for military purposes.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
FFC, an amount equivalent to $300, 000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited into the FFC Special Account; in
respect of NHA, an amount equivalent to $3,500,000 to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited into the NHA Special Account;
in respect of Punjab, an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Punjab
Special Account; in respect of Sindh, an amount equivalent to
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Sindh Special Account; in respect of NWFP, an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the NWFP Special Account; in respect of Balochistan,
an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Balochistan Special Account; and in
respect of AJK, an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited into the AJK Special Account,
all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, FFC or NHA
or each Province or AJK, as the case may be, shall furnish to the


﻿- 26 -
Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf
of FFC or NRA or each Province or AJK, as the case may be, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as FFC or NHA u& each Province or AJK, as the case
may be, shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, FFC or
NHA or each Province or AJK, as the case may be,
shall furnish to the Association requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, FFC
or NHA or each Province or AJK, as the case may
be, shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
.payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as FFC or NRA or
each Province or AJK, as the case may be, shall
have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by FFC or NRA or each Province or AJK,
as the case may be, out of a Special Account, FFC or NRA or each
Province or AJK, as the case may be, shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:


﻿- 27 -
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by FFC or NHA or each
Province or AJK, as the case may be, directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   once the   total unwithdrawn   amount  of  the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the aggregate of
the amounts of the Authorized Allocation specified in paragraph 1
(c) above.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to FFC, NHA, each Province and AJK. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, FFC or NRA or each Province or AJK, as the case
may be, shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until FFC or
NHA or each Province or AJK, as the case may be, has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, FFC or
NHA or each Province or AJK, as the case may be, shall, promptly


﻿- 28 -
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
(c)   FFC or NHA or each Province or AJK, as the case may be,
may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


