Report No. 854a-ET                                                                         FILE          :
Ethiopia                                                                                      LECPY
Appraisal of the
Rangelands Development Project
November 21, 1975
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Ethiopian dollar (Eth$)
US$0.483           =        Eth$1.00
US$1.00            =        Eth$2.07
US$483,000         =        Eth$1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)        2204.6 pounds (lbs)
1 hectare (ha)         =    2.471 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS
AAISC       Awassa Agro-Industrial Share Company
ADB         African Development Bank
ADF         African Development Fund
ARA         Animal Health Assistant
EHA         Ethiopian Highway Administration
EPID        Extension and Project Implementation Department
IAR         Institute of Agricultural Research
JIRDU       Jijigga Rangelands Development Institute
LMB         Livestock and Meat Board
NERDU       Northeast Rangelands Development Unit
PDC         Project Development Center
RRTF        Rural Roads Task Force
SORDU       Southern Rangelands Development Unit
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS   ......         ...............    i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .............................,                     1
II.   BACKGROUND  ........          ..........................        2
A.   General  ........         ........................        2
B.   The Livestock Subsector   .....          ...........      3
C.   Government Livestock Services             ..........      5
III.   THE PROJECT AREA  ......           ......................       6
A.   Southern Rangelands   .....          ...............      6
B.   Jijigga  ........         .........................       7
C.   Northeast Rangelands   .....          ..............      8
IV.   THE PROJECT   ................... .                            8
A.   General Description            ........                   8
B.   Detailed Features   ......... ..  ............           10
C.   Project Costs   ........... .. .............            20
D.   Financing   ............... ...............              23
E.   Procurement   ............ .. ..............            24
F.   Disbursement   ............ .. .............            25
G.   Accounts and Audit   ......... .. ..........            25
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   .....           ............     26
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES .............        ..        28
A.   Production ..............................               28
B.   Markets and Prices .....           .................     30
C.   Government Cash Flow .....           ...............    33
VII.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION             .........     33
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION             .......     36



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Livestock and the Economy
2.   The Livestock and Meat Board (LMB)
Table 1 - Livestock and Meat Board - Balance Sheet
Table 2 - Livestock and Meat Board - Statement of Income
and Expenditure
Charts - LMB - Present Organization Chart (World Bank 9815)
- LMB - Proposed Organization Chart (World Bank 9814)
3.   Ethiopian Rangelands:  Prospects for Development
4.   Veterinary Services
Table 1 - Veterinary Equipment to be Provided under the Project
5.   Water Development
Table 1 - Proposed USAID Contribution to the Southern Rangelands
Water Development Program
Table 2 - Jijigga Water Development Program
6.   Irrigation/Water Spreading
Table 1 - Estimates of Manpower, Equipment and Vehicle
Requirements for a 100 ha Site
7.   Backgrounding and Fattening Ranches
Table 1 - Throughput of Cattle
Table 2 - Incremental Cash Flow
8.   Feedlot Unit
Table 1 - Throughput of Cattle
Table 2 - Incremental Cash Flow
Table 3 - Purchased Feed Requirements
Table 4 - Payment for Services by AAISC
Charts  - Diagram of Feedlot Unit (World Bank 9817)
- Organization of Feedlot Unit (World Bank 9818)
9.   Smallholder Fattening Program
Table 1 - Southern Rangelands: Smallholder Farm
Budget
Table 2 - Jijigga: Smallholder Fattening Farm Budget
Table 3 - Jijigga: Smallholder Backgrounding Farm Budget
Table 4 - Northeast Rangelands: Grazier Scheme Farm Budget



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
10.   Project Livestock Flows
Table 1 - Project Livestock Flows
Table 2 - Southern Rangelands - Backgrounding of Cattle
11.   Roads
Table 1 - Basic Standards for Rural Roads in Ethiopia
Table 2 - Southern Rangelands: Schedule of Project Roads
and Tracks
Table 3 - Jijigga: Schedule of Project Roads and Tracks
Table 4 - Northeast Rangelands: Schedule of Project Roads
and Tracks
12.   Training
13.   Trials and Studies
14.   LMB Project Headquarters Staff
15.   Project Costs
Southern Rangelands
Table 1 - Range Management - Capital Costs
Table 2 - Range Management - Recurrent Costs
Table 3 - Veterinary Services - Capital Costs
Table 4 - Veterinary Services - Recurrent Costs
Table 5 - Model Fattening & Backgrounding Ranch - Investment Costs
Table 6 - Model Fattening & Backgrounding Ranch - Income &
Operating Costs
Table 7 - Feedlot Unit - Investment Costs
Table 8 - Feedlot Unit - Income and Operating Costs
Table 9 - Smallholder Fattening - Capital Costs
Table 10 - Smallholder Fattening - Recurrent Costs
Table 11 - Roads - Capital Costs
Table 12 - Roads - Recurrent Costs
Table 13 - Training and Information - Capital Costs
Table 14 - Training and Information - Recurrent Costs
Table 15 - Trials and Studies - Capital Costs
Table 16 - Trials and Studies - Recurrent Costs
Table 17 - Project Administration - Capital Costs
Table 18 - Project Administration - Operating Costs
Table 19 - LMB Headquarters Staff - Capital Costs
Table 20 - LMB Headquarters Staff - Recurrent Costs
Table 21 - Southern Rangelands - Total Investment Costs
Table 21a- Southern Rangelands - Summary of Project Costs



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
Jijigga
Table 22 - Range Management - Capital Costs
Table 23 - Range Management - Recurrent Costs
Table 24 - Veterinary Services - Capital Costs
Table 25 - Veterinary Services - Recurrent Costs
Table 26 - Water Development - Capital Costs
Table 27 - Water Development - Recurrent Costs
Table 28 - Smallholder Fattening - Capital Costs
Table 29 - Smallholder Fattening - Recurrent Costs
Table 30 - Roads - Capital Costs
Table 31 - Roads - Recurrent Costs
Table 32 - Training - Capital Costs
Table 33 - Training - Recurrent Costs
Table 34 - Trials and Studies - Capital Costs
Table 35 - Trials and Studies - Recurrent Costs
Table 36 - Project Administration - Capital Costs
Table 37 - Project Administration - Recurrent Costs
Table 38 - LMB Headquarters Staff - Capital Costs
Table 39 - LMB Headquarters Staff - Recurrent Costs
Table 40 - Jijigga - Total Investment Costs
Table 40a- Jijigga - Summary of Project Costs
Northeast Rangelands
Table 41 - Range Management - Capital Costs
Table 42 - Range Management - Recurrent Costs
Table 43 - Veterinary Services - Capital Costs
Table 44 - Veterinary Services - Recurrent Costs
Table 45 - Irrigation/Water Spreading - Capital Costs
Table 46 - Irrigation/Water Spreading - Recurrent Costs
Table 47 - Marketing & Grazier Scheme - Capital Costs
Table 48 - Marketing & Grazier Scheme - Recurrent Costs
Table 49 - Roads - Capital Costs
Table 50 - Roads - Recurrent Costs
Table 51 - Training - Capital Costs
Table 52 - Training J Recurrent Costs
Table 53 - Trials and Studies - Capital Costs
Table 54 - Trials and Studies - Recurrent Costs
Table 55 - Services and Supplies - Capital Costs
Table 56 - Services and Supplies - Recurrent Costs
Table 57 - Project Administration - Capital Costs
Table 58 - Project Administration - Recurrent Costs
Table 59 - LMB Headquarters Staff - Capital Costs
Table 60 - LMB Ileadquarters Staff - Recurrent Costs
Table 61 - Northeast Rangelands - Total Investment Costs
Table 61a- Northeast Rangelands - Summary of Project Costs



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
16.   Retroactive Financing
17.   Disbursement and Implementation
Table 1 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Chart   - Estimated Schedule of Implementation
(World Bank 15118R)
18.   Staff Requirements
19.   Project Benefits
Project Parameters
Table  1 - Southern Rangelands - Numbers and Classes of Livestock
Table  2 - Jijigga - Numbers and Classes of Livestock
Table  3 - Northeast Rangelands - Surveyed Areas - Numbers and
Classes of Livestock
Table  4 - Northeast Rangelands - Total Project Area - Numbers
and Classes of Livestock
Table  5 - Northeast Rangelands - Herd Projection without
Project Following Drought Conditions
Table  6 - Northeast Rangelands - Herd Projection with Project
Following Drought Conditions
Table  7 - Traditional Nomadic Cattle Herd Composition (100 head)
Table  8 - Northeast Rangelands - Estimated Nomadic Cattle Herd
Composition - Normal and After Drought
Table  9 - Traditional Nomadic Sheep Flock Composition (100 head)
Table 10 - Estimates of Marketed Offtake
Project Benefits
Table 11 - Southern Rangelands - Range Cattle - Value of
Incremental Meat and Milk Production
Table 12 - Southern Rangelands - Sheep and Goats - Value of
Incremental Meat Production
Table 13 - Southern Rangelands - Fattening and Backgrounding
Ranches - Value of Incremental Meat Production
Table 14 - Southern Rangelands - Smallholder Fattening - Value
of Incremental Meat Production
Table 15 - Southern Rangelands - Stover Grazing Program - Value
of Incremental Meat Production
Table 16 - Southern RanRelands - Feedlot Cattle - Value of
Incremental Meat Production
Table 17 - Southern Rangelands - Summary Table - Value of
Total Incremental Meat and Milk Production
Table 18 - Jijigga - Range Cattle - Value of Incremental Meat
and Milk Production



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
Table 19 - Jijigga - Sheep and Goats (Shoats) - Value of
Incremental Meat Production
Table 20 - Jijigga - Camels - Value of Incremental Meat Production
Table 21 - Jijigga - Smallholder Backgrounding Program -
Value of Incremental Meat Production
Table 22 - Jijigga - Smallholder Fattening Program - Value of
Incremental Meat Production
Table 23 - Jijigga - Summary Table - Value of Total Incremental
Meat and Milk Production
Table 24 - Northeast Rangelands - Range Cattle - Value of
Incremental, Meat and Milk Production
Table 25 - Northeast Rangelands - Sheep and Goats - Value of
Incremental Meat Production
Table 26 - Northeast Rangelands - Camels - Value of Incremental
Meat Production
Table 27 - Northeast Rangelands - Smallholder Grazier Scheme -
Value of Incremental Production
Table 28 - Northeast Rangelands - Irrigation/Water Spreading -
Value of Incremental Crop Production
Table 29 - Northeast Rangelands - Summary Table - Value of
Total Incremental Meat, Milk and Crop Production
20.   Marketing and Prices
Table 1 - Unit Value of Ethiopian Beef Exports as Compared with
Some International Beef Prices
Table 2 - Comparison of Beef Cattle Average Price Trends in
Ethiopia, Kenya and Selected Countries, 1968-1973
Charts - Rangeland Cattle Marketing Flows (World Bank 9816)
- Unit Value of Ethiopian Beef Exports Compared with
International Price Trends (World Bank 9952)
21.   Government Cash Flow
Table 1 - Government Cash Flow
22.   Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Total Project Economic Rate of Return
Table 2 - Southern Rangelands Economic Rate of Return
Table 3 - Jijigga Economic Rate of Return
Table 4 - Northeast Pangelands Economic Rate of Return
MAPS
Location of Project Areas (IBRD 11608)
Southern Rangelands (IBRD 11609)
Northeast Rangelands (IBRD 11610)
Jijigga Rangelands (IBRD 11611)



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUN21ARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The livestock subsector represents an important force in the future
economic development of Ethiopia. The rangelands in particular have an im-
mense potential for the sustained production of livestock and livestock pro-
ducts, and they are unique in that this potential could be exploited with
only relatively small additional capital inputs. In the past, however, the
total investments have not been commensurate with the magnitude of the devel-
opment potential, and insufficient account has been taken of the need for a
balanced investment program. This has reinforced the normal cyclical over-
stocking and over-grazing of the range areas brought about by traditional
nomadic range and livestock management practices. Priority therefore has been
given by Government to the development of a large-scale program aimed at the
expansion of livestock production, and the rationalization and modernization
of the traditional livestock sector.
ii.       The Project would over a five year period provide for the develop-
ment and rehabilitation of three lowland range areas inhabited mostly by
nomadic pastoralists engaged in extensive livestock production. The Project
would consist of three separate and distinct sub-projects, each with its own
organizational structure. These sub-projects - The Southern Rangelands,
Jijigga and Northeast Rangelands Development Projects - would each provide an
integrated program of range management and veterinary services along with
improved roads and water facilities. Through the establishment of ranches,
a feedlot and smallhclder fattening programs they would also aid in the stra-
tification of the Ethiopian livestock industry, thus helping to lay the found-
ation for the sound future development of the livestock economy in the range
areas. Finally, provision would also be made for a program of trials and
studies and for training of Project staff, livestock owners and tribal leaders.
In the short term the Project would attempt to restructure the traditional
system of extensive livestock production, thus substantially raising the value
of marketed livestock production and resulting in significantly increased
incomes for the nomadic producers. One of the primary goals would be the
eventual establishment of a comprehensive system of range use controls under
which the nonads would voluntarily adjust their overall stock numbers to meet
the carrying capacity of the ranges. As all the three areas differ markedly
with regard to geographic and climatic conditions and are inhabited by peoples
with widely varying languages and tribal customs, the individual sub-projects
would necessarily adopt a slightly different strategy in each region. The
overall objective would in each case remain the same, however, and in all three
areas a concerted effort would be made to actively involve the nomads in the
planning and execution of Project activities.
iii.      Overall direction of the Project would be the responsibility of the
Livestock and Meat Board. Each of the three sub-projects would have a separ-
ate organizational unit based at a headouarters within the individual project



- ii -
areas. These units - The Southern Rangelands Development Unit (SORDU), The
Jijigga Rangelands Development Unit (JIRDU), and the Northeast Rangelands
Development Unit (NERDU) - would each be under direction of a Project Manager
directly responsible to the head of LMB's Rangeland Development Department.
The Project Manager would have immediate responsibility for the coordination
of all Project development activities in his area.  In order to ensure coordi-
nation of these activities with other programs currently underway, each Manager
would set up a Project Development Committee, whose membership would include
the Head of the (Awraja) Administration, other local representatives, as
well as representatives from the livestock owners in the area. LMB would
help coordinate the activities of all three projects and would provide certain
centralized administrative and technical services through its headquarters
in Addis Ababa.
iv.       An IDA credit of US$27.0 million is proposed which would cover about
US$14.0 million of the foreign exchange component of the Project and 54% of
local costs over the five year period. This would represent 63% of total
Project costs of Eth$ 88.8 million (US$42.9 million), including import taxes
and duties estimated at Eth$ 0.6 million (US$0.3 million). The proposed African
Development Fund (ADF) contribution would total 5.0 million African Development
Fund units of account (about US$5.5 million); this would finance the remaining
US$2.9 million of the Project's foreign exchange costs and US$2.6 million of
local costs. Together the ADF and the IDA contributions would finance 76%
of total Project costs, and the remaining 24% would be contributed by Govern-
ment. In addition, farmers participating in the smallholder fattening programs
would make a small cash contribution toward the cost of fattening and purchase
of each animal; these contributions, totalling about US$0.40 million over the
five year period, were not included in the cost estimates. The ADF, IDA and
Government contributions would be channelled directly by Government to LMB,
which would establish separate bank accounts for each of the three sub-projects.
Procurement of vehicles would be subject to international competitive bidding.
Headquarters buildings and senior staff housing would be constructed according
to normal Government procedures. All other buildings and field constructions
would be built by the Project's ownl resources through force account or by local
contractors hired by LMB. Veterinary equipment, medicines, and fertilizer
would be procured through normal commercial channels.
v.        At full development (year 7) the Project would result in increased
marketed production from the ranges of 100,000 head of cattle, 48,500 sheep
and goats, and 3,000 camels annually. In addition to this increased offtake,
the ranches, feedlot and smallholder fattening programs would result in signi-
ficant increases in total marketed meat production. The total incremental
meat production attributable to the Project at full development would be
equivalent to 15,000 tons of meat, representing about 14% of present estimated
meat production. The Project would also result in increased production of
milk from range cattle totalling about 7.8 million litres of milk annually at
full development. Finally, incremental crop production from the water spreading
program in the Northeast Rangelands area would total about 1.1 million kg of
cotton, 320,000 kg of sorghum or maize, and 120,000 kg of groundnuts annually
at full development. The total annual value of incremental production attri-
butable to the Project at full development would be Eth$ 23.6 million.



- iii -
vi.       The overall economic rate of return for the Project over twenty
years is estimated at 24%. Individual rates of return were calculated for
each of the three sub-projects: these are estimated at 22% for Southern
Rangelands, 25% for Jijigga, and 26% for Northeast Rangelands. Rates of
return were also calculated for certain specific components within these
sub-projects; these were estimated at 17% for the ranches, 29% for the feedlot
and 13% for the water spreading/irrigation program. The Project would ensure
permanent employment for some 500 persons, and around 4,000 workers would be
given temporary employment during the implementation period. Overall the
Project would affect an estimated 100,000 families in the rangeland areas; the
average per capita income of these pastoralists would be increased from Eth$
60 (US$29) to about Eth$85 (US$41) over the life of the Project, thus sub-
stantially raising the incomes of one of the poorest segments of Ethiopia's
population.
vii.      This would be the Bank Groups' twelfth lending for agricultural
development in Ethiopia since the beginning of 1969. rwo of these IDA pro-
jects have been for livestock development - the Addis Ababa Dairy and the
Second Livestock Development Projects. The remaining projects in the agri-
cultural sector included the Lower Adiabo Development Project, two Wolamo
Development Projects, and the Humera, Amibara Irrigation, the Coffee Process-
ing, the Minimum Package, and the Drought Areas Rehabilitation Projects;
there was also one agricultural credit project - the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank (AIDB) Project.
viii.     The proposed Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$27
million on standard terms to the Government of Ethiopia.






ETHIOPILA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The livestock subsector represents an important force in the future
economic development of Ethiopia. The rangelands in particular have an immense
potential for the sustained production of livestock and livestock products,
and they are unique in that this potential could be exploited with only rela-
tively small additional capital inputs. In the past, however, the total
investments have not been commensurate with the magnitude of the development
potential, and insufficient account has been taken of the need for a balanced
investment program. This has reinforced the normal cyclical over-stocking and
over-grazing of the range areas brought about by traditional nomadic range
and livestock management practices. Priority therefore has been given by
Government to the development of a large-scale program for the expansion of
livestock production. The proposed Project would support this strategy by
providing an integrated program of range management and expanded veterinary
services along with improved roads and water facilities; through the estab-
lishment of ranches and cattle fattening programs it would also aid in the
stratification of the livestock industry in an effort to provide an even flow
of quality meat both for sale on local markets and for export.
1.02      This would be the Bank Group's twelfth lending for agricultural
development in Ethiopia since the beginning of 1969. Two of these IDA projects
have been for livestock development - the Addis Ababa Dairy and the Second
Livestock Development Projects. The Dairy Project provided US$4.4 million in
1971 for the expansion of milk production; after some organizational and
pricing difficulties the project is now in the process of being re-structured.
The Second Livestock Project for US$5.0 million in 1973 was designed to set
up an integrated market and stockroute system in three important livestock
producing areas of the country. It has, however, experienced serious cost
overruns and management difficulties and is now well behind schedule; some
stockroutes have already been eliminated from the proposed system, and further
restrictions in the construction of markets and slaughter facilities may be
necessary in the future. The remaining projects in the agricultural sector
included the Lower Adiabo Development Project, two Wolamo Development Pro-
jects, and the Humera, Amibara Irrigation, the Coffee Processing, the Minimum
Package, and the Drought Areas Rehabilitation Projects;  nhere was also one
agricultural credit project - the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank (AIDB) Project.
1.03      The proposed Project was prepared by the Livestock and Meat Board
and by a consultant firm working on the Southern Rangelands Project; assist-
ance was also provided by FAO and by the Bank's Permanent Mission in Eastern
Africa (PMEA). This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Ethiopia in January/February 1975 comprising Messrs. G.R.
Henderson, T. Baddar, Its. J. Maguire, Messrs. H. Sanger and P. Sihm (IDA),
M. Negrin (ADB) and H. Cooke and M. Creek (Consultants). A follow-up mission
consisting of Messrs. D. Argyle, G.R. Henderson and J. Hendry visited Ethiopia in
June 1975.



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ethiopia with a total land area of about 1.2 million km  lies in
the northeastern horn of Africa just north of the Equator. The central part
of the country is mostly high plateau, 1 ,500 to 3,000 meters above sea level
and dissected by gorges and broad valleys; this plateau is surrounded by
extensive lowlands, most of which are inhabited only by nomadic pastoralists.
The country is divided into six basic ecological regions which vary consider-
ably with regard to topography, climate, soils, natural vegetation and agri-
cultural potential. While no detailed land use data is available, it is
estimated that about 50% of the land is permanent pasture, 9% is cultivated,
21% is barren desert or swamps, 10% rivers and lakes and 9% is forests. The
country's extremely rugged terrain is a serious obstacle to internal trans-
portation, communication and economic development.
2.02      The total population, estimated at 26.5 million (in mid-1973), is
growing at an annual rate of about 2.4%. Total monetary and non-monetary
Gross Domestic Product (GDP), estimated at US$2.1 billion in 1973, is growing
at about 4.3% per year. Over 90% of the people live in rural areas, and
overall per capita income is estimated at US$80.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      The agricultural sector is distinguished by wide climatic and
ecological diversity which allows a large variety of crops to be grown. The
peasant farmers possess a high level of traditional agricultural skill, but
they lack an efficient marketing system, access roads, security of tenure,
credit, extension and veterinary services and improved seeds, as well as
fertilizer and other farming inputs. Although 8 of every 10 Ethiopians are
peasant farmers, agriculture contributed only about 52% of GDP in 1972.
Average total annual family output (at farm prices) is less than Eth$ 300
(US$140), and 75% of this represents subsistence consumption. The total
value of agricultural output in 1972 was about Eth$ 2,200 million; cereals,
coffee and other crops accounted for 71% and livestock and livestock products
for the remaining 29%.
2.04      A serious three-year drought culminated in widespread famine in many
areas of the country by 1973. To date, it has not been possible to quantify
the economic impact of this disaster, but the effects are unquestionably
grave. With adequate rainfall and a maximum effort, it will take perhaps as
long as three to five years for agriculture to reach pre-drought levels of
production. The proposed massive redistribution of land and the ensuing
fundamental changes in the production and power structures in the rural areas
are expected to have in the short term a detrimental effect on agricultural
production.



- 3 -
B.  The Livestock Subsector (Aniex 1)
2.05      Prior to the drought, Ethiopia's vast livestock resources (the
largest of any country in Africa) included an estimated 1/ 27 million cattle,
24 million sheep, 18 million goats, 7 million horses, mules and donkeys, and
1 million camels. The true dimensions of the losses attributable to the
drought are not yet certain, but it is estimated that in the Northeast Range-
lands - which was the most severely affected area - some 80% of the cattle,
50% of the sheep, and 30% each of the nomadic camels and goats died over a
three-year period. It is also estimated, however, that other things being
equal, the herds should regenerate themselves over a 7-10 year period.
2.06      Given the large domestic herds and the fact that over 50% of the
country's land area is devoted to livestock production, the subsector makes
a disproportionately small contribution to national production and to export
earnings. In 1972, livestock products contributed about 29% of total agri-
cultural output (beef 10%, other meat 5%, milk 8%, hides and skins 1% and
others 5%). It is estimated that the total official 2/ exports of livestock
and livestock products from Ethiopia was about Eth$ 23.3 million in 1972,
an increase of about 300% from 1968. In spite of this increase, however,
the total quantity and value of exports were relatively low in relation
to the existing potential. The major constraints to increased output are
endemic diseases and an underdeveloped internal marketing system which
depresses the prices paid to the producer; in addition, uncontrolled grazing
and stock breeding have denuded vast areas of rangeland. Another constraint
is that cattle are traditionally viewed as a source of prestige and a hedge
against future uncertainty rather than as a potential source of cash income;
the nomadic owners in particular are reluctant to sell an animal unless it
is absolutely necessary.
Rangeland Areas
2.07      The Ethiopian rangelands cover some 500,000 km2, or about 42%
of the country's total land area. While no accurate figures are available,
it is estimated that they contain a human population of 2.5 million, 5.5
million cattle (21% of the country's total), 4.5 million sheep (18%), 2.5
million goats (15%), and 1 million camels (100%). In addition to providing
subsistence for the largely nomadic population, the rangelands provide the
(highland) cultivated areas with livestock and livestock products, and they
are presently the only areas with a net surplus of immature cattle for finish-
ing for domestic consumption or for export. The carrying capacity of the
ranges is severely limited by the lack of adequate water facilities and by
1/   Livestock and Meat Board, 1974.
2/   In addition to the livestock exported through recognized trade channels,
a substantial number also cross the borders into Somalia and Kenya with-
out going through customs or paying official export taxes.



inefficient utilization of existing vegetation; consequently, the large in-
creases in both the human and livestock populations over the past five decades
have contributed to a significant deterioration in the condition of the grazing
areas. This situation has been aggravated by the recent drought, and by the
increasing encroachment of settled farming in the most productive dry season
pastures. The land reform proclamation recently issued by Government specifi-
cally recognized the traditional rights of the nomadic pastoralist over the
ranges. The future of these areas will, however, depend most directly on the
ability of the livestock owners to limit the number of their animals and to
institute a voluntary and comprehensive system of range use controls.
2.08      The ranges are informally divided into a number of grazing reserves,
each controlled by a particular tribe; tribal agreements regulate the seasonal
migrations of the nomadic livestock owners as they travel with their herds in
search of water and grazing. The incomes of these nomads are low as compared
with the national average. The annual per capita income in these areas is
probably about Eth$ 60 (US$29).
2.09      The composition of the livestock herds in different range areas
within Ethiopia will vary with the ecology of the region and the traditions
of the nomadic people living there (see Annex 19, p. 3). In the Southern
Rangelands, cattle comprise the greater proportion of the nomadic herds, and
they are valued highly for both milk and meat production. Cows culled
for age are sold for slaughter, and male cattle are sold mainly to finance
major purchases such as food and clothes. In Jijigga where lower annual
rainfall produces less favorable range conditions, cattle (although important)
are greatly outnumbered by sheep and goats. The latter are kept in separate
flocks looked after by the women; their milk comprises an important part of
the family diet, and a limited number are sold to satisfy immediate cash
needs. Camels are mainly used for transport, but they are more important in
the drier areas of the lower Ogaden. In the Northeast Rangelands area which
is characterized by extremely arid semi-desert conditions, camels are
probably the most important type of livestock, as they are used for trans-
port and traded for use in the Danakil salt trade; although larger in numbers,
sheep and goats are somewhat less important to the nomadic economy. Very
few cattle are found in the driest parts of the region.
Livestock Marketing
2.10      The existing livestock markets in Ethiopia are for the most part
poorly developed.  With few exceptions they usually comprise an open place
with no facilities, situated in or close to a town or village to which live-
stock are brought in small lots at frequent intervals (often daily) for
sale. Animals are normally traded by direct and time-consuming bargaining
with limited public awareness of actual price levels. In the smaller markets
the buyers, apart from a few local butchers, are usually small livestock
traders sometimes purchasing on behalf of bigger traders and sometimes purchas-
ing with the sole objective of re-trading the stock in another market further
down the stockroute. In a few markets, auctioneers have established them-
selves and operate on a tribal basis, but this method of selling is not widely



- 5 -
practiced. Direct bargaining is also the rule in the bigger markets near
consumer centers where the buyers are predominantly butchers and butchers'
agents. Municipalities throughout the country charge a fee for the use of
the market, commonly Eth$ 2.00 per head for cattle and camels and Eth$ 0.30
for sheep and goats, but only a proportion of the fees are actually collected.
Sales of slaughter stock to the meat factories are sometimes made direct by
the producer, but the more usual system is for the factory to support a few
major traders who themselves buy at the bigger markets and have arrangements
with smaller traders and agents at smaller markets.
2.11      There is at present an urgent need both to stimulate the offtake
from the national herd and to channel a greater percentage of the trade
through Ethiopian channels (para 2.06). Progress will depend on the rate
at which organized marketing facilities are introduced, and on the ability
of the various extension services to bring about a fundamental change in the
traditional nomadic approach to livestock production. These problems were
given initial attention under the IBRD Second Livestock Development Project
initiated in 1973. This project provided an integrated market and stock-
route system in three important livestock producing areas of the country;
it also included provision for the construction of slaughter facilities,
cattle transport and technical and administrative assistance. In the range
areas the improved facilities are expected to lower marketing costs, improve
competition and ultimately result in higher prices for local producers. The
project is also expected to have the added benefit of increasing the offtake
from the national herd, thereby reducing the threats of over-grazing and
insufficient water supplies. Construction of project infrastructure is only
now beginning to get underway, but it is expected that these facilities would
be capable of handling the expected increased offtake from the proposed Project.
C. Government Livestock Services
2.12      Several Government agencies provide a range of services to the
livestock industry; these include the Livestock and Meat Board (LMB), the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Dairy Development Agency. On the whole,
the level of services is far short of the industry's overall requirements,
and other services, e.g. extension services, are very restricted. However,
through a reorganization of LMB and a consolidation of various Government
programs, Government is now making a substantial effort to improve the
organization and effectiveness of its services. The major constraint in
this task are a lack of trained Ethiopian staff and the necessity of allocat-
ing limited financial and manpower resources among the various programs.
2.13      Livestock and Meat Board (Annex 2).  The Livestock and Meat Board
(LMB) is the institution primarily responsible for the development of the
livestock industry. It was established in 1964 as an independent body to
coordinate policy matters relating to livestock, poultry, meat, eggs, and
by-products including hides and skins. The overall policy of LMB is
determined by a Board of Directors chaired by the director of the Depart-
ment of Animal Resources in the Ministry of Agriculture and the
day-to-day operations are the responsibility of the General Manager.



-6-
LMB was given extremely wide powers under its enabling legislation, but
thus far it has mainly been concerned with the licensing of exports, produc-
tion of general monitoring and background studies on the livestock industry,
development of a feed mix plant and of a poultry industry. In addition,
LMB has had primary responsibility for execution of the Second Livestock
Project. Recently, LMB has been given a broad range of additional responsi-
bilities, including that of supervising 10 recently nationalized abattoirs.
Also, in order to concentrate all livestock production activities within one
agency, the Livestock Production Division of the Ministry of Agriculture was
transferred to LMB's control. Government is presently considering a plan
for the reorganization of LMB which would consolidate the existing lines of
responsibility and thus would better enable it to carry out its designated
tasks.
2.14      Ministry of Agriculture.  Overall responsibility for animal health
services is vested in the Department of Veterinary Services within the Ministry
of Agriculture. The veterinary staff now comprises 45 Ethiopian veterinarians,
40 expatriate veterinarians supplied under technical assistance, 250 Animal
Health Assistants and 700 trained vaccinators.  These staff are, however,
insufficient to give satisfactory veterinary cover throughout the country,
and consequently the services supplied in many areas are at best rudimentary.
The effectiveness of the staff is further hampered by lack of sufficient
vehicles, veterinary supplies and other materials. In general, the efficiency
of Ministry staff is also reduced due to the fact that a disproportionate
number of trained staff are presently located in Addis Ababa and other urban
centers.
III. PROJECT AREA
A. Southern Rangelands
3.01      The Southern Rangelands cover a gross area of some 160,000 kmi
stretching over all or parts of Sidamo, Gemu-Gofa, Bale and Harar Administrative
Regions; the bulk of the Project investments would, however, be concentrated
in an area of about 95,000 km2 on the Borana plateau in Sidamo. There are
some 480,000 persons now living in the area, more than 350,000 of which are
nomadic livestock owners. The amount of cultivated area is relatively small
and most of this is concentrated in a strip along the mountains in the north
of the area. The only town of any size is Neghelli (total population about
8,000), and the other main settlements are Yabello, Mega and Teltalle. The
road network throughout the area is uneven and many parts are completely cut
off during the rainy season. The mean annual rainfall varies from 550 to
650 mm in some parts of the range to around 440 mm per annum in other areas.
3.02      The range area is divided into a number of grazing areas dominated
by a particular tribe; tribal agreements regulate the seasonal migration of



- 7 -
the nomadic herdsmen from the wet to the dry season grazing areas and from
one zone of influence to another. The main tribes established in the area
are the Borana, Gujji, Arrussi, the Somali and the lower Gemu-Gofa pastoralists.
These tribes rely almost exclusively on livestock for subsistence. There are
now approximately 1.0 million cattle, 300,000 sheep and goats, and 90,000
camels within the Project area. Most of the cattle are Borana zebus, a breed
with the best potential of all Ethiopian cattle. The carrying capacity of the
ranges is severely limited by the lack of adequate water facilities, and by
poor range management practices; due to the uneven water supplies, some areas
are very much overgrazed during the dry season, while other vast regions are
under-grazed or only partially grazed.
B. Jijigga
3.03      The Jijigga Project area covers approximately 33,000 km2 in the
Harar Administrative Region on the eastern edge of Ethiopia; this includes
the whole of Jijigga and parts of Gursum and Dagabar Administrations. The
largest town is Jijigga, with a permanent population of about 25,000. The
main all-weather road from Harar through Jijigga to Dagabur runs through the
area, and connects it with the railway and air services at Dire Dawa; there
are also a number of other motorable tracks. The mean annual rainfall in the
area ranges from 600-700 mm down to 320 mm or lower.  The rainfall pattern
is bimodal. The area's total population is estimated at between 300,000 and
500,000 persons, the majority of whom are semi-nomadic pastoralists. There
are in addition about 22,000 semi-settled farmers with a total of about
300,000 ha under crops; these are mostly small farmers (less than 2-3 ha),
although there were about 150 large mechanized farmers (over 40 ha) operating
near Jijigga. The main crop grown is sorghum, and the large farmers also
grow some wheat and maize.
3.04      The vast majority of the nomads living in this area are of Somali
origin, belonging to thirteen major clans and some minor ones. While each
pastoral clan tends to have its own "territory", they migrate with their
livestock herds over long distances in search of water and grazing, using
the territories of other clans according to a system of contracts and agree-
ments. The number of livestock located within the project area fluctuates
drastically from season to season. Aerial surveys estimate that the number
of cattle ranges from 400,000 in the dry season to almost 700,000 in the wet
season; likewise the number of sheep ranges from 500,000 to 900,000 and goats
from 150,000 to 450,000. Range studies indicate that 84% of the grazing
areas show signs of over-use, and there is some evidence that the overall
condition of the range is deteriorating. The traditional range use pattern
has been tending to break down both because of the increase in cultivation
and settlement around the permanent water points, and because the introduction
of concrete water tanks has greatly prolonged the grazing period in some
border areas.



C. Northeast Rangelands
3.05      The Northeast Rangelands Project would be located in a 75,000 km2
area in the northeast of Ethiopia and would include parts of both Wollo and
Tigre Administrative Regions. The area is characterized by low rainfall, is
largely inaccessible and has few external communications. The only main road
runs from Bati to Assab, and the few settlements of any size are located along
this route. Limited if any marketing, veterinary and other services are
available to the pastoralists. Apart from the very western edge of the area
in the foothills where attempts have been made at dry land cotton cultivation,
irrigation is required for successful cultivation. Profiting by the example
of the successful commercial irrigation program in the Awash Valley, some of
the Afars have settled there and are cultivating irrigated crops.
3.06      There are an estimated 30,000 families living in the area.  These
pastoralists are for the most part Afars with closely related social struc-
tures and a long nomadic tradition. The hardships brought about by the recent
drought seem to have given the Afars a new perspective, and they appear to
be increasingly willing to consider alternative livelihoods such as farming
and manual labor. Also inter-tribal hostilities have resulted in the serious
disruption of the traditional economy, and they are now for the most part
deprived of their highland grazing areas as well as the traditional livestock
markets located there. As a result of the drought the number of livestock
has dropped substantially. The number of cattle in a surveyed portion of the
area fell from 355,000 head in September 1972 to 65,000 head in January 1974;
sheep and goats declined less dramatically from 585,000 to 362,000, and camels
from 100,000 to 64,000. Although the livestock economy is gradually being
restored, the marketed offtake will remain low for the next few years.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would over a five year period provide for the develop-
ment and rehabilitation of three lowland range areas inhabited mostly by
nomadic pastoralists engaged in extensive livestock production. The Project
would consist of three separate and distinct sub-projects, each with its
own organizational structure. These sub-projects - The Southern Rangelands,
Jijigga and Northeast Rangelands Development Projects - would each provide
an integrated program of range management and veterinary services along with
improved roads and water facilities. They would also aid in the stratifi-
cation of the Ethiopian livestock industry, and help lay the foundation for
the sound future development of the livestock economy in the range areas.
Specifically the Project would provide for:



(a) the institution of land planning and range management
programs in conjunction with a program for the gradual
control of livestock numbers;
(b) the establishment of a basic veterinary and livestock
extension service designed to reach the nomadic pasto-
ralists;
(c) construction of water facilities including both permanent
and rainy season water ponds as well as a small number of
boreholes and concrete water tanks; a limited water spreading
program would be carried out in the Northeast Rangelands
area;
(d) construction of trade roads and administrative access
tracks;
(e) the development of backgrounding and fattening ranches and
a feedlot (Southern Rangelands only) and smallholder
fattening schemes;
(f) a program of trials and studies with emphasis on improved
range use and grazing control practices;
(g) training of Project staff, livestock owners and tribal
leaders; and
(h) provision of supplemental staff within LMB in order to
improve its overall efficiency and to enable it to provide
technical and administrative services to the three head-
quarters units.
Overall direction of the Project would be the responsibility of the Livestock
and Meat Board. Each of the three sub-projects would have a separate organiza-
tional unit based at a headquarters within the individual project areas.
These units - The Southern Rangelands Development Unit (SORDU), The Jijigga
Rangelands Development Unit (JIRDU), and the Northeast Rangelands Development
Unit (NERDU) - would each be under the direction of a Project Manager directly
responsible to the head of LMB's Rangeland Development Department.
4.02      In the short term the Project would attempt to restructure the
traditional system of extensive livestock production in the Project areas,
thus raising the value of marketed livestock production and resulting in
increased incomes for the nomadic producers. One of the primary goals would
be the eventual establishment of a comprehensive system of range use control
under which the nomads would voluntarily adjust their overall stock numbers
to meet the carrying capacity of the ranges. This would in turn help pre-
vent the now ever-recurring cycle of a gradual build-up of herds, over-
stocking, and consequent heavy losses in the face of the first sustained
drought. In the long term, however, the Project would seek to provide a basis



- 10 -
for a fundamental change in the system prevalent in these areas whereby indi-
vidually owned livestock graze lands traditionally allocated to the tribal
community as a whole. Project services would be directed to all types of
livestock. In the Southern Rangelands area where cattle are most important
(para. 2.09), the main veterinary effort would be directed at Rinderpest.
The ranches, feedlot and smallholder fattening programs would be introduced
to support the further stratification of the Ethiopian beef cattle industry.
In Jijigga where sheep and goats predominate, the veterinary effort would be
directed at tick-borne diseases (such as Babesiosis) and internal parasites.
Although the main emphasis in the smallholder fattening programs would ini-
tially be directed toward cattle, sheep would be included after practical
trials for the fattening of sheep were carried out in both the Jijigga high-
land area and on the Northeast Rangelands water spreading dispersion areas
(para. 4.14). Any improvement in sheep husbandry would show substantial
benefits as the value of the meat is substantially higher than that of beef.
In the Northeast Rangelands area where there is a high proportion of camels,
the main veterinary effort would be directed at Trypanosomiasis; little is
known of other aspects of camel husbandry, but it is expected that the improve-
ment of the ranges and the collection of data by the Project would help
alleviate this gap.
4.03      As all of the three areas differ markedly with regard to geographic
and climatic conditions and are inhabited by peoples with widely varying
languages and tribal customs, the individual sub-projects would necessarily
adopt a slightly different strategy in each region. The overall objective
would in each case remain the same, however, and in all three areas a
concerted effort would be made to actively involve the nomads themselves
in the planning and execution of Project activities. In any case, no
development activities would be undertaken without the full cooperation
and approval of the tribes affected.
B. Detailed Features
Range Management (Annex 3)
4.04      A central element of the overall Project strategy would be the
development of a comprehensive range management program for each of the
three Project areas. The ultimate objective of this program would be the
gradual transformation of the traditional nomadic livestock economy where
the animals are largely held as a source of subsistence and of prestige and
as a hedge against future uncertainty. A Range Management Division would
be established within each of the three sub-projects to formulate and coor-
dinate the strategy in each area. It would be initially responsible for the
development of both an overall land use plan and a detailed range management
plan specifically adapted to conditions in that area. Since this would
involve changes in the living patterns and traditions of the nomads as well
as technical changes in animal husbandry methods, it is recognized that the



- 11 -
program must be introduced gradually and only with the full cooperation of
the tribal authorities; although the objectives will only be realized over
a much longer period, it is expected that during the Project period the
initial impetus for change can be developed.
4.05      Although the range management programs for each of the three areas
would necessarily be somewhat different, the basic thrust and objectives
of each program would be much the same. Particular attention would be given
to control of livestock numbers, the limitation of burning and tree cutting,
and to the introduction of controlled grazing and closure of pastures. These
activities would be most carefully integrated with the veterinary and the
water development programs (paras 4.09 - 4.14), and indeed the successful
inter-relation of these would be crucial to the success of the Project.
4.06      Southern Rangelands.  The range management program in the Southern
Rangelands Project area would center around the establishment of the four
backgrounding and fattening ranches (para. 4.15) where improved range manage-
ment techniques would be introduced in relatively concentrated areas; it is
hoped that once the success of these practices has been demonstrated on the
ranches, they would then be adopted for extensive use by the nomads them-
selves. Agreement has not yet been obtained for setting aside dry season
grazing reserves, for although certain groups. more or less control specific
grazing areas, they are also utilized by other groups (particularly in times
of drought); these agreements would be negotiated during the course of the
Project. The SORDU Range Management Division would coordinate the activities
of the range extension agents, the water scouts, and the operation of the
four ranches; this coordination would ensure that all the activities directly
affecting the status of the range areas would be fully integrated.
4.07      Jijigga.  The range management program to be initiated in the
Jijigga area would be somewhat more intricate than that being implemented in
the Southern Rangelands. This would be possible as the Somali tribes in the
area are relatively sophisticated livestock keepers who are able to exercise
a relatively high degree of control over range use. Therefore, a somewhat
different approach is called for. In the first year a land use plan for the
Jijigga area would be drawn up and the land zoned into areas suitable for
cultivation, rangeland, fodder reserves and for settlement. 1/ Within the
area to be gazetted as natural range, dry season grazing reserves would be
established based on both existing and new permanent watering points; these
reserves would be selected by the tribal groups in collaboration with JIRDU,
and agreements to this effect have already been signed. In principle these
reserves would be closed to all livestock except during the dry season, and
the grazing restrictions would be enforced by range guards selected from
1/   While this system can be enforced for the most part under existing
legislation, some supplemental legislation may also be necessary.



- 12 -
among the tribes. As part of an effort to involve the individual clans in
range development, a system of range associations of stockowners would be
established; the recommended range policies would be discussed with these
groups and they would be made increasingly responsible for the overall devel-
opment. Finally two pilot fodder banks would be established to serve as a
fodder reserve and to test the efficacy of selected planting materials.
These activities would be carried out by the JIRDU Range Management Division.
4.08      Northeast Rangelands.  The Northeast Rangelands area is only now
emerging from the recent drought which brought about widespread famine and
a drastic reduction in total livestock numbers. The drought also severely
damaged the rangelands themselves; large areas are bare of any vegetation,
and other areas are only now gradually beginning to recover with the aid
last year's rains. With the large reduction in the total stock numbers,
the ranges are now able - even with their greatly reduced carrying capacity -
to support the existing herds without undue pressure. This situation will
not prevail for long, however, as it is estimated that within 10 years the
herds will once again have been built up to their former levels. Consequently,
unless some controls are achieved within this time, the ranges will once
again be over-stocked. This area thus offers a unique opportunity to
institute improved range management practices at a time when the immediate
control of numbers is not the most important consideration. As part of this
strategy, an inventory of each tribal grazing area would be made to serve as
a guide in the selection of range reserves. At full development some 15 dry
season grazing reserves totalling about 8,000 km2 would be established. All
decisions with regard to the opening and closing of these reserves would be
made by tribal authorities in cooperation with the Project Range Management
Division. Eight fodder banks averaging 10 ha in size to be used as fodder
reserves in time of drought would also be established. Finally, the NERDU
Range Management Division would carry out various studies on the use of
enclosures, vegetation, the development of fodder reserves, etc.
Veterinary Services (Annex 4)
4.09      Animal diseases represent a major constraint to the development of
the Ethiopian livestock industry, and (except for the ongoing JP-15 campaign)
the limited veterinary services now available have had almost no success
in reducing herd losses and controlling the spread of outbreaks. A more com-
prehensive Project veterinary extension service would therefore be established
in each of the three Project areas in order to reduce livestock losses
attributable to disease and to improve the condition of those animals
marketed from the ranges. The level of services would be fairly intensive,
for in view of the high inter-dependence of the various Project components,
the provision of adequate veterinary cover is essential to the long-term
success of the Project. The staff would be organized in such a way as to
ensure the active participation and cooperation of the existing veterinary
authorities, the tribal leaders, and the nomadic stockowners.
4.10      The veterinary staff in each area would be headed by a Senior
Veterinarian assisted by a Junior Veterinarian (in two of the three areas),
Animal Health Assistants (AHA's), vaccinators, and veterinary scouts. Field



- 13 -
stations under the direction of an AHA would be established in up to 6
locations in each area. These field stations would be equipped with mobile
sheep dips, hand sprays, scales, veterinary drugs and other equipment. A
diagnostic unit also under an ABA would be set up in the Southern Rangelands
and Jijigga areas. 1/ The AHA's and vaccinators would work with the veteri-
nary scouts in carrying out not only regular veterinary services but also the
training of the local livestock owners in herd and range management tech-
niques; the ratio of AHA's to veterinary scouts would be around 1:20, with
one scout to 400 families. The veterinary scouts would be chosen from among
the pastoralists and would live and work with them, reporting periodically
to the field stations for instructions and supplies. They would receive
special training in both animal health care and range management and other
extension activities at the Project training centers (para 4.24). They would
provide instruction on the value of modern but simple methods of disease
control, and would provide drugs and chemicals for sale to the livestock
owners. The primary objectives of the veterinary program would therefore
be to develop the interest and capability on the part of the stockowners
themselves to institute both better disease control and improved livestock
management practices and to introduce range use controls adapted to their
own needs and traditions.
Water Development (Annex 5)
4.11      Three types of water development would be provided for under the
Project: boreholes, permanent water ponds with a capacity of 60,000 m3,
and rainy season surface catchment ponds with a capacity of about 7,500 m3.
The boreholes would be provided on the ranches and on grazing areas where
surface water catchment is unsuitable due to high soil permeability.
Because of the relatively high cost of drilling and pumping these would be
kept to a minimum. The large water ponds hold water throughout the dry
season and are important in opening up new areas for dry weather grazing.
The smaller ponds hold sufficient water to prolong the wet weather grazing
for one or two months into the dry season before the stock must move on;
these ponds are grouped around the larger ones in a ratio of 10:1 to
facilitate grazing control. The water programs in each area would vary
considerably, as both the present levels of infrastructure and the future
needs are quite different. No specific water development program would be
undertaken by the Project in the Northeast Rangelands area, as in those areas
where sufficient grazing is available, there are enough wells and other
water points available to meet current livestock needs. The Government water
authority is, however, instituting a tube well boring program to provide
water for human consumption in the few existing population centers. The
National Water Resources Commission has agreed that once the Project Units
are established in all three areas, they would be appointed by Government as
the water development authority for the entire area, and that all water devel-
opment within their sphere of influence would be coordinated by them.   Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
1/  There is an adequately equipped unit already available in the Northeast
Rangelands area.



- 14 -
4.12      Southern Rangelands.  It is presently estimated that about one-third
of the range is under utilized due to lack of stock water, and the water
provided in conjunction with the Project would therefore be designed to in-
crease the carrying capacity of this area. The water facilities would include
the construction of some 15 large water ponds and upgrading or improvement
of some 220 smaller rainy season ponds. The water development would be closely
integrated with the range management program in order to prevent over-grazing
of hitherto protected areas; a further safeguard would exist by virtue of the
fact that the number of water points being provided is only about one-third
of the number required for full development. An additional 10 large water
ponds initially included within the Project are now under construction by a
Ministry of Agriculture program supported by USAID.
4.13      Jijigga.  Under the Project permanent water supplies would be
established in both the cultivated areas (to provide water for the smallholder
stock feeder program, para 4.21) and in the dry season grazing areas (sub-
ject to agreement on the boundaries of the dry season grazing reserves); it
is also proposed that a few additional water supplies be located outside the
dry season grazing reserves to protect them from an over-use in times of
inadequate rainfall. As part of this program the Project would take over
and re-equip four existing Government boreholes at Aware, Coralei, El Amhar
and Lafaissa. Up to 75 shallow wells would be dug in cultivated areas near
the farms involved in the stocker feeder program. Four boreholes, two birkas
(concrete-lined water tanks) and 11 shallow wells would be provided in the
grazing reserves. The water program would be administered by the JIRDU Range
Management Division; construction would be carried out by the JIRDU Technical
Division, and in the case of the boreholes by contract.
Irrigation/Water Spreading (Annex 6)
4.14      Water spreading for simple irrigation would be carried out within
the Northeast Rangelands Project area on the basis of experience gained from
similar activities supported under the IDA Drought Areas Rehabilitation
Project. The program would involve the diversion of flood water under gravity
to bunded plots of land; the irrigated sites would range from 5 to 500 ha
in size and would average about 100 ha. These would be divided into one
hectare plots, each allocated to a different farmer. It is expected that
up to 2,000 Afar farmers would be allocated individual plots by the end of
the Project period. The main crops produced would be cotton, maize, sorghum
and groundnuts. Livestock would be grown out or fattened on the surplus
water dispersion areas of the irrigation sites (para 4.22). In addition
to the water spreading program, provision would also be made for general
hydrological studies and for two feasibility studies; the latter would include
an investigation of the possibilities of irrigated crop development in the
Teiru Depression.
Ranches (Annex 7)
4.15      Under the Project provision would be made for the establishment of
up to four 25,000 ha fattening and backgrounding ranches in the central part



- 15 -
of the Southern Rangelands area. These ranches would provide an assured out-
let for the surplus stock from the surrounding range areas, and would represent
a first step in the stratification of the Ethiopian livestock industry. By
offering an even flow of animals both for possible fattening by the feedlot
(para 4.17) and by smallholders in the Awassa area (para 4.20), and for sale
on local markets, they would be able to offer higher prices to local livestock
owners. These higher prices would provide a strong incentive for the nomads
to increase the present low offtake from the ranges, and would also result
in a significant increase in the cash incomes of one of the poorest segment
of the Ethiopian population.
4.16      Three of the ranch sites have been identified thus far (Did Hara,
Dedertu, and Kajima), and the site of the fourth would be finalized at a
later date; agreements have been reached with the nomadic tribes having
traditional grazing rights over the ranch areas. The ranches would purchase
young male cattle from the pastoralists in the surrounding area; a first
payment equal to the current market price plus a small bonus would be made
at the time of the sale, and a second payment would be made after the dis-
position of the animal by the ranch. On average each animal would spend one
year on the ranch, with an average weight gain of 100 kg, thus bringing
the animal to a final weight of approximately 250 kg. At full development
(in year 5) a total of about 16,000 head would be handled by the four ranches
each year; about 8,000 of these would be channelled through the feedlot
operation, and the remainder would be either fattened by smallholders in the
Awassa area, or grazed on stover on the AAAISC farm. A limited number of older
animals would be sold on local markets or - if this should prove feasible -
exported through Assab. Investments on the ranches would include provision
for offices, housing, stores, fencing, farm tracks and access roads, stock-
ponds, vehicles and equipment. A Ranch Manager under the general supervision
of the Head of the Range Management Division would be responsible for the
operation of each ranch. The development program has been made intentionally
flexible so that if it is feasible to develop four separate ranches during
the development period this could be done; if, however, the rate of development
were slower than expected, the money allocated for the fourth ranch could be
transferred to other operations.
Feedlot (Annex 8)
4.17      A feedlot unit would be established at the Awassa Agro-Industrial
Share Company (AAISC) farm in the Southern Rangelands area. The feedlot
would be designed to add value and weight to immature cattle through an
intensive feeding regime. It would thus assist in the stratification of the
Ethiopian livestock industry by providing a regular supply of high value
meat for both export and local markets. This would in turn result in higher
prices through the establishment of new outlet for quality meat. These
higher prices would eventually accrue to the nomadic cattle owners, as up
to 75% of the profits of the feedlot would be returned to the producers
in the form of improved prices or as bonuses on cattle already sold. The
feedlot would also serve as a pilot operation to provide basic data on the
feasibility of establishing similar operations elsewhere in Ethiopia.



- 16 -
4.18      The AAISC farm (now owned by Government) would lease the land for
the feedlot to the Project and would provide a number of administrative and
other services to the feedlot operation such as the growing of forage and
supply of feed grains.  The farm would also undertake construction of the
unit to specifications provided by the Feedlot Manager.  One unit with a
capacity of about 2,700 animals at any one time would be constructed initially;
each animal would spend about 16 weeks in the feedlot, giving an annual
throughput of about 8,000 animals. 1/  The main investments in the feedlot
would be for water, fencing, levelling and drainage, troughs, an access
road and trench silos; some silage making machinery would also be provided
for the AAISC farm. Cattle for the feedlot would be purchased mainly from
the ranches, although other sources of supply would not be precluded. The
feedlot would produce between 150 and 180 head of cattle per week. A large
proportion of these would be slaughtered either for sale on the Addis Ababa
market or for export to Arab countries; the remainder would be exported
live through Assab.
Smallholder Fattening (Annex 9)
4.19      Smallholder fattening program would be undertaken in each of the
three Project areas whereby livestock would be sold on credit to smallholders
for fattening on crop residues and other fodder. This system of low cost
growth is variously known as stocker feeding, backgrounding or the production
of store animals. Each program would be tailored to meet the specific
conditions in that area. The Southern Rangelands program, for example, would
(along with the ranches and the feedlot) be an integrated part of a clas-
sically stratified livestock industry. In the Jijigga area the program would
supplement and expand an existing fattening industry where work oxen are used
for 2 to 3 years on a farm and then fattened for a year before sale on crop
residues and produced fodders. In the Northeast Rangelands area, credit would
be provided to families now without any stock to purchase animals for fat-
tening on the ranges.
4.20      Southern Rangelands.  At full development up to 2,000 cattle from
the ranches would be shipped to the Awassa area where they would be sold on
credit to smallholders for fattening on crop residues. About 2,000 addition-
al animals would be fed on low value sorghum stover on the MAISC farm. The
entire fattening operation has, however, been made flexible so that the number
of animals sold by the ranches for fattening either by the feedlot, the
smallholders or on the AAISC farm could be easily adjusted in view of the
number and quality of animals available (Annex 10, Table 2).
4.21      Jijigga.  A stocker feeder program involving about 4,500 small
farmers would be established in the Jijigga area. Each of the participating
1/   With a minimum of additional investment the feedlot could later be
expanded to allow for an annual throughout of 12,000 head if this
should prove desirable.



- 17 -
farmers would purchase two animals on credit from JIRDU for fattening on
sorghum stover or other crop residues, giving an annual throughout of 9,000
animals per year (Annex 10, Table 1). The cattle would initially be purchased
by private traders under contract to JIRDU.
4.22      Northeast Rangelands.  A livestock marketing program would be
introduced under the Project to stimulate the volume of marketed offtake and
to reduce the irregularity of supply that is presently a major constraint
to the proper functioning of existing markets. Eight markets recently closed
by tribal hostilities would be reopened and provided with perimeter fencing;
a Project Marketing Unit (PMU) would be responsible for the initial function-
ing of these markets. The PMU would also set up a pilot grazier scheme where-
by it would purchase young male animals, treat them for disease and then sell
them on credit to pastoralists for feeding over one year. The stockowners
would be required to resell the animals to the PMU, and they would be paid a
guaranteed minimum price per kg liveweight. It is also expected that sheep
would be fattened using the surplus water dispersion areas of the irrigation
sites (para 4.14).  About 100 pastoralists fattening an average of 10 live-
stock units each would participate in the first three years of the program;
by year 5 the total throughput of the program would be about 3,000 livestock
units (Annex 10, Table 1).
Roads (Annex 11)
4.23      Ethiopia's transport facilities are poorly developed, with many
areas of the country almost completely isolated from the main marketing and
administrative centers. The existing road network in the nomadic rangelands
is insufficient to meet both the specific needs of the Project and to sustain
the long term development of the area. Two immediate requirements are
apparent:
(a) the creation of trade roads to open up the area for
administrative and trade purposes; and
(b) the establishment of dry season access tracks to allow
access for veterinary, extension and other Project Staff
and to facilitate communications on the ranges.
The trade roads would be built to take a 6-10 ton two-wheel drive lorry in
dry weather, and access tracks built to take a four-wheel drive vehicle in
reasonable weather. Both types of roads would be built by labor intensive
methods, although a limited amount of machinery would be provided for the
grading of roads in particularly difficult terrain. The road program,
which would be the responsibility of the three Project implementation units
(para. 4.27), is detailed below:



- 18 -
Trade        Access
Roads        Tracks
------- km
Southern Rangelands              540           460
Jijigga                          765           740
Northeast Rangelands             165           380
1,470        1,580
In addition to this construction and/or improvement program, provision would
also be made under the Northeast Rangelands Project for a limited amount of
communications equipment (mostly transceiver radios) to compensate for the
particularly poor communications facilities in that area.
Training (Annex 12)
4.24      A program would be set up in each of the Project areas to train
both local Project staff and to educate and integrate the various tribal
groups in the development process. For this purpose, training centers would
be established in each area under a Project Training Officer, and provision
would be made for a mobile training center. All senior Project staff would
be sent for short courses in their various fields, and a limited number of
fellowships (both in East Africa and abroad) would be made available. Tribal
elders would be brought to the training centers for periods of up to 5 days
to familiarize them with the objectives of the Project. In the Southern
Rangelands area additional activities would include the establishment of a
small training and demonstration herd of about 200 cattle at the training
center. In all three areas the training units would also prepare programs
for, among others, the regular broadcasting station at Harar and for a new
station to be established at Alemaya under the IBRD Fourth Education Project;
these would enable the stations to give short daily broadcasts on specific
items of stockowner interest. In the Northeast Rangelands area training
centers would be set up at two of the Project Development Centers (para 4.28).
Specialized training would be provided to give selected laborers the opportunity
to train as foremen and supervisors in irrigation and road construction programs.
Training in irrigated crop production would also be provided to the 2,000 farm-
ers to be included in the water spreading program (para 4.14).
Trials and Studies (Annex 13)
4.25      The Project would include provision for a number of technical and
socio-economic trials and studies both in order to provide answers to technical
problems and to assess the results achieved by the various Project components.
As this would be the first full-scale range development project carried out
in Ethiopia, it is important that the maximum amount of data be compiled so



- 19 -
that these experiences can prove a guide to the development of similar
projects either in Ethiopia or elsewhere in East Africa. Individual studies
would be carried out in each of the Project areas, and areas of investigation
would include: improved range management techniques, the integration of
arable farming with livestock production, use of enclosures, development of
fodder banks, and range ecology. Socio-economic studies would continue and
enlarge efforts already underway to estimate herd numbers and composition,
offtake, migration patterns of nomadic livestock owners, and changing tribal
structures and traditions. Project evaluation would be carried out by special
units within each of the three Project units.
Services and Supplies
4.26      The Project would provide for the distribution of a number of
essential goods and services through stores set up at the Project Development
Centers in the Northeast Rangelands area (para. 4.28). These would include
veterinary and medical supplies, agricultural inputs and some grain. All
of these would be sold for cash to the pastoralists in the area, although
a limited amount of credit would be made available for the purchase of agri-
cultural inputs. Once the communication and other market facilities within
the Northeast Rangelands area have been upgraded, it is expected that private
traders would take over this distribution function. A Supplies and Dis-
tribution Unit within NERDU's Finance and Administration Department would
supervise the operation of these stores.
Project Administration
4.27      The Project would be implemented by three separate units established
at separate project headquarters in each of the three Project Areas - the
Southern Rangeland Development Unit (SORDU), the Jijigga Rangelands Development
Unit (JIRDU) and the Northeast Rangelands Development Unit (NERDU). These
units would each be headed by a Project Manager responsible to the Head of
the LMB Rangeland Development Department. Additional Staff would include
Heads of the Finance and Administration and the Technical Services Divisions,
a Chief Accountant, a Procurement Officer, clerks, and other supporting
personnel. Provision would also be included for housing, vehicles and equip-
ment.
4.28      Although the headquarters units would be reasonably similar in
all three areas, special conditions prevailing in the Northeast Rangelands
would necessitate a certain amount of additional investment in this area.
There are very few permanent settlements in this region, the terrain is
difficult, and there is almost no communications network of any kind. In
order to help offset these difficulties, eight Project Development Centers
(PDC's) would be established at strategic points throughout the Project area.
These centers would facilitate contact with the pastoralists, and would
provide a focal point for the development activities. The facilities would
in each case include a supply store, grain and fuel storage, radio communica-
tions equipment, and staff accommodations.



- 20 -
LMB Headquarters Staff (Annex 14)
4.29      Additional staff would be provided under the Project to help enable
the Livestock and Meat Board (LMB) to successfully undertake overall respon-
sibility for the implementation of this Project. First, a Rangeland Develop-
ment Department would be established within LMB to coordinate the activities
of all three sub-projects, and to provide administrative and technical assist-
ance to them. Staff provided for this Department would include: an inter-
nationally recruited Department Head (who would serve as overall Project
Coordinator), a Personnel Officer, a Water Engineer, a Sociologist and a
Mass Media/Training Specialist. Secondly, LMB would also provide certain
other financial and procurement services to the three range projects; in
order to supply this capability and to improve the overall efficiency of LMB,
supplemental staff would be provided within the Finance Department. These
staff would include an internationally recruited Financial Controller, an
Internal Auditor, two Accountants, as well as a Senior Procurement Officer
and one Junior Procurement Officer; a limited amount of supporting staff
and some equipment and vehicles would also be provided. It was estimated
at appraisal that approximately 12 high level staff would be internationally
recruited (para 5.02), and these positions were costed accordingly in the
relevant tables. At negotiations it became clear that suitable local candidates
were available for a number of these positions; it was however agreed that there
was a need to compensate for the lack of administrative experience on the part
of otherwise qualified Ethiopian candidates. Therefore, two new posts were
created within the Rangelands Development Department - Technical Manager for
Project Administration and Technical Manager for Veterinary Services; these
staff would be internationally recruited and would be paid for by the Project.
Adequate savings would be available through the increased employment of local
staff costed at international rates. Funds would also be provided under the
Project for the construction of a second veterinary laboratory building at
Debre Zeit in order to allow this facility to expand its production of vaccine
as well as its diagnostic services. Finally, provision would be made for funds
to support the continued preparation of future projects within the livestock
sector by LMB. One third of the total cost of the entire component would be
attributed to each of the three sub-projects.
C. Project Cost (Annex 15)
4.30      Total Project cost is estimated at Eth$ 88.8 million (US$42.9
million), of which about US$14.0 million or about 33% would represent foreign
exchange requirements. Total Project costs are detailed below:



Local     Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign      Total      Foreign
Exchange
_____---- Eth$ '000 ----     ----    -       US$ S00t  ---------
Range Management                   3,402       1,755       5,157       1,643        848        2,491       34
Veterinary Services                5,930       3,581       9,511       2,865       1,729       4,594        38
Water                              1,505       1,713       3,218         727         827       1,554       53
Irrigation/Water Spreading         3,905      2,557        6,462       1,886      1,235        3,121       39
Ranches                            3,066       1,122       4,188       1,481         542       2,023       27
Feedlot                            1,502         653       2,155         725         315       1,041       30
Smallholder Fattening              3,560       1,227       4,787       1,720        592        2,312       26
Marketing and Grazier Scheme         778         144         922         375          69         445        15
Roads                              6,115       2,479       8,594       2,954       1,197       4,151       29
Training                           1,481       1,462       2,943         715         706       1,421       50
Trials and Studies                 1,924       1,069       2,993         929         516       1,445        36
Services and Supplies                428         228         656         206         110         317        35
Project Administration             6,222       1,690       7,912       3,007         816       3,822        21
LMB Rangeland Dev. Dept.            1,683      1,056       2,739         813         510       1,323        38
Base Cost                    41,501      20,736      62,237      20,049      10,017      30,066        33
Contingencies
Physical                      4,150       2,073       6,224       2,005       1,001       3,006        33
Price                        14,483       5,830      20,313       6,997       2,816       9,813        29
Total Project Cost           60,134      28,639      88,773      29,050      13,835      42,885        32



- 22 -
Southern                    Northeast
Rangelands      Jijigga      Rangelands      Total
- _-- _---- ----  Eth$ '000   --
Range Management                        1,687         2,004          1,466        5,157
Veterinary Services                     3,700         3,589          2,222        9,511
Water                                   2,300           918            -          3,218
Irrigation/Water Spreading                -             -            6,462        6,462
Ranches                                 4,188           -              -          4,188
Feedlot                                 2,155           -              -          2,155
Smallholder Fattening                   1,735         3,052            -          4,787
Marketing and Grazier Scheme              -             -              922          922
Roads                                   5,207         2,157          1,230        8,594
Training                                1,267         1,091            585        2,943
Trials and Studies                      1,135         1,525            333        2,993
Services and Supplies                     -             -              656          656
Project Administration                  2,723         2,665          2,524        7,912
LMB Rangeland Dev. Dept.                  913           913            913        2,739
Base Cost                        27,010        17,914         17,313       62,237
Contingencies
Physical                          2,701         1,791           1,731       6,223
Price                             8,799         5,652          5,862       20,313
Total Project Cost               38,510        25,357         24,906       88,773



- 23 -
Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing at the time of appraisal
plus estimated price escalations to December, 1975. A physical contingency
of 10% has been included. In addition price contingencies of 35% for local
and 29Z for foreign costs have been included to allow for expected increases
in foreign and local costs; these are equivalent on average to a cumulative
annual price contingency of about 10%. Price contingencies are based on the
estimated level of price increases for Project items in Ethiopia. Import
taxes and duties on Project goods are estimated at Eth$ 0.6 million (US$0.3
million) and have been included. The Project should commence well in that
retroactive financing has been provided for the recruitment of key staff and
other initial related expenditures; these staff are expected to be in post
by the time of the signing of the credit agreement. However, it is considered
that it will take about a further six months for most Project staff to be
recruited, for construction to commence and for goods to be received.
The Government believes that it can implement the Project more quickly as it
intends to give the Project a high priority; this would of course be very
desirable but a more prudent estimate of implementation has been used by the
mission.
D. Financing
4.31      The financing of Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
US$ million          %
IDA                         27.00             63
ADF                          5.50             13
Government                  10.50             24
Total            43.00             100%
The proposed IDA credit would be on standard terms to Government. This
would cover about US$11.1 million of the total foreign exchange costs
(US$14.0 million) and about 54% of local costs, or about 63% of total Project
costs. The proposed African Development Fund (ADF) contribution would total
5.0 million African Development Fund units of account (about US$5.5 million);
this would finance the remaining US$2.9 million of the Project's foreign
exchange costs and US$2.6 million of local costs. In order to ensure that
the total available ADF funds would be utilized, ADF would finance up to 76%
of the costs of the ranches, the feedlot and the smallholder fattening



- 24 -
program and up to 36% of the costs of the roads in the Southern Rangelands
sub-project. Together the ADF and the IDA contributions would finance 76%
of total Project costs. The remaining 24% would be contributed by Government;
this would be offset to the extent that Project costs include about US$0.3
million in taxes and duties. In addition to the costs shown above (para 4.30),
farmers participating in the mali1holder fattening programs would make a small
cash contribution for the fattening and purchase of each animal; these contri-
butions would total about US$0.40 million during the Project implementation
period. The ADF, IDA and Government contributions would be channelled
directly by Government to LMB, which would establish separate bank accounts
for each of the three sub-projects. It would be a condition of credit effect-
iveness that separate accounts for each of the three sub-projects had been
established and that a deposit of funds had been made therein to cover the
expenditures for the first quarter of the Project implementation period
starting January 1, 1976, such deposit to be made on the basis of a reasonable
estimate of the expenditures for such period. In order to facilitate this
initial estimate and to ensure that adequate funds are made available to
the sub-projects over the implementation period, LMB would prepare an annual
work plan and budget at the beginning of each fiscal year and such plans and
budgets would be forwarded to IDA and ADF for review and comment. The
Project would provide up to US$500,000 in retroactive financing to cover
Project expenditures for salaries and other administrative costs incurred
from July 1, 1975 to the date of the signing of the credit agreement. A
suggested list of items to be included in this retroactive financing is
given in Annex 16.
E. Procurement
4.32      Procurement of vehicles and road construction equipment (US$2,376,600)
would be subject to international competitive bidding according to IDA guide-
lines; orders would be bulked whenever possible. These orders would be exe-
cuted through LMB's Procurement Division acting as the agent for all three
projects. In order to facilitate the early operations of the Project, pro-
vision would be made for the purchase of up to fifteen vehicles (US$138,700)
following quotations obtained from normal commercial channels. The buildings
and structures to be constructed under-the Project would be required at
scattered locations over the three range areas. Therefore all Project Head-
quarters buildings and senior staff housing would be constructed using normal
Government procedures which are satisfactory to the Association. However,
in order to reduce the delays involved in the construction of all other
Project structures, special buildings and field constructions, these would
be built by the Project's own resources through force account (by AAISC in
the case of the feedlot construction), or by local contractors hired by LMB.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Ministry of Public Works
would delegate authority to LMB to approve plans and provide for the con-
struction of such structures up to a limit of Eth$ 20,000 per unit and would
make arrangements satisfactory to the Association to reduce delays on the
approval of plans and execution of works for all other Project constructions.



- 25 -
Various items of veterinary equipment, medicines, chemicals and fertilizer
(US$600,000) would also be required in small amounts at scattered locations
Various items of veterinary equipment, medicines, chemicals and fertilizer
(US$600,000) would also be required in small amounts at scattered locations
and at varying times throughout the Project period. Therefore, as they
would not be suitable for either international or local competitive bidding,
procurement of these items would be through normal commercial channels in
accordance with Government procedures satisfactory to the Association.
F. Disbursement (Annex 17)
4.33      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over five years on
the basis of:
(a) 100% of the foreign or 76% of the total costs of
vehicles and technical assistance; and
(b) 76% of the costs of all other items financed by IDA.
Disbursements against (a) would be fully documented. Disbursements against
(b) would be made against statements of expenditure certified by the sub-
project managers and by the Financial Controller; these would be kept by LMB
and made available to IDA for inspection. Any funds remaining in the credit
account upon completion of the Project would be subject to cancellation, since
their use to cover similar expenditures would require a new project preparation
and appraisal. ADF parallel financing of the Southern Rangelands ranches,
feedlot, smallholder fattening and road construction components would be
subject to similar arrangements. An estimated schedule of Project disburse-
ment is presented in Annex 17. Should the Project be implemented more quickly,
as Government believes possible, the rate of disbursement would be adjusted
accordingly. A Project implementation schedule is also presented in Annex 17.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.34      The accounting system of LMB is barely adequate for its present
level of activities and its accounting system is mainly a set of double entry
books from which a trial balance is extracted at the end of each month. LMB
particularly suffers from a shortage of qualified and experienced staff in
the accounts section. To allow for future development and the wide geographical
area IMB's activities would cover, the Second Livestock Development Project
provided for the appointment of consultants to design an effective accounting
and internal control system; this has become even more important at this stage
given LMB's increased level of activities. The consultants have completed
the manual of accounts and IMB is now making plans for the gradual implemen-
tation of the new system. In order to better enable LMB to carry out the new



- 26 -
duties created as a result of the proposed Project, provision has been in-
cluded under the Project for the employment of a Financial Controller, an
Internal Auditor and two Accountants (para 4.29). LMB's accounts are
audited annually by the firm of Mann Judd & Co., who are associated with
the London firm of the same name. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the accounts of LMB would continue to be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and that LMB would submit its annual accounts
and the auditor's report to IDA within six months of the end of its financial
year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Livestock and Meat Board
5.01      The Livestock and Meat Board (LMB) under the direction of its
General Manager would be responsible for the overall execution of the Project.
At present, there are nine operating departments reporting directly to the
General Manager, and LMB has also been given responsibility for a number of
commercial enterprises recently nationalized by Government. In an effort to
consolidate the existing lines of authority and to better enable LMB to carry
out its designated tasks, Government is presently considering a reorganization
plan submitted by management consultants retained under the Second Livestock
Development Project. Under this proposal, as amended by Government (Annex 2,
Chart: World Bank 9814), LMB would have four operational and two service
departments: Rangeland Development; Animal Industry Development; Marketing;
Livestock II; Finance; and Administration and Personnel. Two of these
departments - the Rangeland Development Department and the Finance Department -
would be particularly important to the successful implementation of the pro-
posed Project. The Rangeland Development Department would help coordinate
the activities of the three sub-projects, and would provide a number of common
services to them; the Finance Department would provide certain financial and
central procurement services for the Project. Both departments have now
been formally established within LMB, and internationally recruited senior
staff acceptable to IDA are being recruited to serve as Department Heads
(para 4.29).
Project Development Units
5.02      Each of the three sub-projects would have a separate organizational
unit based at one of the three Projiect headquarters. These three units -
the Southern Rangelands Development: Unit (SORDU), the Jijigga Rangelands
Development Unit (JIRDU), and the NIortheast Rangelands Development Unit
(NERDU) - would be headed by a Project Manager directly responsible to the
Head of LMB's Rangeland Development: Department. Each sub-project would have



- 27 -
its own bank account, and would oversee its own accounting, disbursement,
procurement and personnel activities; as noted above, where necessary these
services would be supplemented by a number of central services to be pro-
vided by LMB (see Annex 14). Within each sub-project unit, the following
major divisions would report directly to the Project Manager:
(a) Range Management Division;
(b) Veterinary Division;
(c) Fattening Division (SORDU and JIRDU only);
(d) Finance and Administration Division;
(e) Technical Division (construction of roads and
water facilities); and
(f) Training and Information Division.
In addition to these, the Northeast Rangelands unit would have three add-
itional divisions or units to help it administer special programs in that
area; these would include a Marketing Unit, a Supplies and Distribution Unit
and an Irrigation Division. The duties of each division are explained
in the relevant annexes. These three projects would require about 57 high
level staff, and it is expected that about 14 of these would be international-
ly recruited (about half are expected to be Ethiopians); a detailed list of
all Project staff is given in Annex 18. A condition of disbursement for any
one of the three sub-projects taken individually would be that the Project
Manager, the Senior Range Officer, the Senior Financial Officer and the Senior
Veterinarian had been recruited and that the candidates for these posts and
the terms and conditions of their employment would be subject to IDA approval.
5.03      The Project Manager would have immediate responsibility for the
coordination of all Project development activities within his area. In order
to assist him in this effort, and to ensure coordination of Project activities
with other programs currently underway, each Project Manager would set up a
Project Development Committee; the membership of the committee would include
the Head of the (Awraja) Administration, other local representatives, as
well as representatives of the livestock producers in the area. As it
would also be essential that the Project establish a good working relationship
with the stockowners, Range Councils would be established; Project management
would work with these councils in setting up range management and water
control programs, and the councils would become increasingly responsible
for the policing of the system. In the Southern Rangelands and Jijigga
areas, the main contacts between Project staff would be effected through
the veterinary service and the Range Management Department, and these units
would increasingly serve as the focus of the development activities. The



- 28 -
approach would be somewhat different in the Northeast Rangelands area, however,
where the main contacts would be made through the eight Project Development
Centers (para. 4.28); thus in an area where uneasy inter-tribal relations,
as well as communications and geographic difficulties make any contact with
the pastoralists particularly complicated, the added facilities and staff
available at these centers would greatly facilitate these efforts.
Other Development Activities
5.04      The Project development units would be assisted in their task by
several other organizations and Government authorities now operating in
these areas. The Awassa Agro-Industrial Share Company would construct the
feedlot unit from specifications provided by the Feedlot Manager, and would
provide a number of other services to the feedlot unit (para. 4.18). SORIDEP,
the French bilateral extension program now operating around Awassa, would
help in identifying suitable smallholders to participate in the Southern
Rangelands fattening program (para. 4.20). Likewise EPID would provide
much the same type of assistance in the Jijigga area (para. 4.21). The IDA-
financed Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project now underway in the Northeast
Rangelands area has served in many respects as pilot project to test develop-
ments being undertaken in that area by the proposed Project (e.g. the water
spreading program). The National Water Resources Commission is now carrying
out water programs in all three Project areas.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Production (Annex 19)
6.01      The Project would result in a substantial increase of marketed
production of livestock and livestock products from the three range areas;
this increase would be attributable both to an increase in the liveweight
of all animals marketed from the ranges as well as an increase in the
total marketed offtake. The relevant statistics for livestock marketed
from the range area are given below:



- 29 -
S.R.             Jijigga              N.E.R.
Without    With    Without    With       Without    With
Project   Project  Project  Project    Project  Project
Cattle
Offtake Rate    9% /1       11%       9% /1    11%        6% /2     11%
No. Marketed   90,000  110,000    45,000    55,000    30,000    55,000
Sheep and Goats
Offtake Rate   12%          14%      12%       14%       13%        15%
No. Marketed   36,000   42,000   116,000   136,000    97,500   120,000
Camels
Offtake Rate     -          -         5%        6%        5% /2      6%
No. Marketed      -         -       8,000      9,600    10,000    12,000
/1   The original offtake rate was estimated at 6%. As a result of the
JP-15 campaign, the offtake rate increased to 9%. Without the con-
tinuation of this campaign, the offtake rate would rapidly drop again
to 6%. The follow-up of this campaign will be financed by the Project,
so that the incremental offtake will be fully credited to the Project.
(See Annex 19)
/2   These numbers are derived from static herd estimates and ignore the
currently low offtake and marketed rates attributable to the recent
drought.
At full development (year 7), total increased marketed production from the
ranges attributable to the Project would be about 100,000 head of cattle,
48,500 sheep and goats and 3,600 camels annually. This would represent 16%
and 3% of the estimated marketed production of cattle and sheep and goats in
1974. These estimates are based on available statistics for the Project areas
and on experience gained in similar areas elsewhere in East Africa. In
addition to the increased production attributable to improved services in the
range areas, the ranches, feedlot and smallholder fattening programs would
also result in significant increases in total marketed production. The
estimated 16,000 animals handled by the ranches annually at full development
would show an average liveweight gain of 100 kg/head (from 150 to 250 kg
liveweight). The feedlot would process about 8,000 head annually, with an
estimated average gain of 100 kg/head (from 250 to 350 kg/head). Increases
attributable to the three smallholder fattening schemes show varying results
due to the significantly different quality of the animals concerned. In
Southern Rangelands, the total of about 2,000 animals included in the program
each year would show average liveweight gains of 100 kg/head. In Jijigga
the fattening and background operations would cover a total of about 9,000
head annually at full development; these would show average liveweight
gains of 210 kg/head (from 140 kg/head to 350 kg/head) and 110 kg/head (from
140 to 250 kg/head) respectively. Gains from the grazier scheme in the
Northeast Rangelands area would be somewhat less as the cattle would be
kept on the natural ranges; a total of about 3,000 head each year at full
development would gain an average of 100 kg/head (from 140 kg/head to 240 kg/



- :30 -
head). The incremental meat production at full development would be equiv-
alent to 15,000 tons of meat, representing about 14% of the present estimated
marketed meat production 1/.
6.02      In addition to these increases in total livestock production, the
Project would also result in increased production of milk from range cattle
in the three areas 2/; this increased output would total about 7.8 million
liters of milk annually at full development, adding about 80 liters of milk
to the annual consumption of a stockowner's family. Finally, incremental crop
production from the water spreading program in the Northeast Rangelands
area would total about 1.1 million kg of cotton, 320,000 kg of sorghum or
maize, and 120,000 kg of groundnuts annually at full development.
6.03      The total annual incremental production attributable to the Project
at full development would be valued at Eth$ 23.6 million. The value of
the incremental marketed production of range cattle would be based on (a)
the incremental value of meat over current marketed production attributable
to liveweight gains as a result of the Project 3/, and (b) the value of the
increased number of animals marketed; the total value of this production is
estimated at Eth$13.6 million at full development (year 7). The value of in-
cremental sheep and goat and camel production is likewise estimated at Eth$ 1.9
million and Eth$ 1.2 million respectively. The stratification of industry
through the establishment of ranches, the feedlot, and the smallholder
fattening programs would also result in significant liveweight gains for an
estimated 30,000 head of cattle; the incremental value of this increase is
estimated at Eth$1.6 million for the ranches, Eth$1.8 million for the small-
holder fattening programs, and Eth$1.3 million for the feedlot.  Incremental
milk production would be valued at Eth$ 1.2 million and crop production
at Eth$0.9 million.
B. Markets and Prices (Annex 20)
Markets
6.04      Total production of cattle was about 1.9 million head in 1972/73,
and that of sheep and goats about 14.6 million head in the same year. Of
1/   Recorded marketed production only.
2/   It was assumed that each cow would show an incremental milk production
of 15 kg of milk annually.
3/   Average Liveweight of Herd
Before Development                Increase Attributable to the Project
Cattle          180 kg                               15 kg
Sheep and Goats 18 kg                                 3 kg
Camels          300 kg                               10 kg



- 31 -
this total about 90% of the cattle and 95% of the sheep and goats were con-
sumed locally, while the remainder were exported through both official and
unofficial channels. About 50% of all consumption consists of beef, and the
rest is largely sheep, goat and poultry meat. Rural consumption accounted
for some 71% and 87% respectively of total cattle and sheep production in
this same year, as compared with 80% and 90% respectively in 1967/68. These
figures indicate that the relative importance of urban consumption has been
increasing - at least in the case of beef - at a fairly rapid rate, and it is
expected that this trend will become even more pronounced over the coming
decade. 1/ Thus, a growing population with an increasing percentage located
in higher income urban markets has ex-erted considerable pressures on availa-
ble meat supplies. This situation was further aggravated by a 53% increase
in total exports of livestock and livestock products in the same five years.
These factors contributed to a 9% decline in per capita consumption of meat
in that period, 2/ and projections indicate that this trend is expected to
extend until the mid 1980s, as demand continues to exceed available supplies.
Recent LMB studies indicate that over the period 1974-1984 beef production
is expected to increase at an annual rate of 2.08% annually and that of sheep
and goats at a rate of about 0.4% per annum, as compared with an annual average
population growth of 2.4%.
6.05      The rapidly growing economies of various Middle Eastern countries
have opened up more favorable export markets for Ethiopian beef, putting
an additional strain on domestic supplies. The growing needs of domestic
markets - particularly in urban areas - could, however, become a major
constraint to the development of an expanded export trade. In early 1975
Government instituted a 15% export tax on livestock and meat products which,
if enforced, could have resulted in a considerable reduction in official
exports. However, this tax has now been abolished.
6.06      Most of the incremental production attributable to the Project
would be marketed domestically through existing channels (see Chart, World
Bank 9816). These sales would be made through local traders operating out
of established rural markets (para. 2.10); animals would then be either
sold live on rural or urban markets or slaughtered for ultimate sale on
mainly urban markets. It is also estimated that a small percentage of the
total incremental production would be exported live or as chilled meat to
nearby countries, although the exact proportion of exports is difficult to
estimate, and would depend to some extent on future Government policy (para.
6.05). Up to 75% of the annual incremental production of sheep and goats
from the Jijigga area would most likely be exported live to neighboring Arab
1/   In these years the urban population is expected to increase at a rate
of 6.5% annually, as compared with a rate of 2.1% for the rural popula-
tion.
2/   From 15.3 kg/head to 13.9 kg/head.  These figures are, however, well
beyond consumption levels in most other African countries.



- 32 -
countries. In addition to this, about 6,000 head of cattle annually from
the feedlot (75% of total output), and 3,000 head from the smallholder
fattening program (25% of the total) would also be exported either live
or as chilled beef. The additional stratification of the livestock in-
dustry introduced by the Project would provide new and more profitable
market outlets for nomadic producers, thus helping to increase competition
in existing markets. Considering these factors, the existing network of
markets and traders is reasonably efficient and would be adequate to meet
the increased volume generated by the Project.
Prices
6.07      Average prices for good quality cattle increased by about 75% over
the period 1968/69-1974/75. In 1974 this price was about Eth$ 0.60/kg
liveweight, although limited quantities of high quality beef might sell for
as much as Eth$1.50/kg liveweight during peak demand periods. Sheep prices
generally averaged about twice the price paid for good quality beef. Domestic
prices for cattle, sheep and goats are expected to increase annually between
1% and 2% up to 1980 and 2% to 3% from then until 1984. Prices of exported
meat and meat products significantly increased in the period up to 1972/73
following world market trends. Since then, while prices for exports to
European markets fell dramatically in 1974, price levels for live exports from
Ethiopia (mainly to Saudi Arabia) have remained fairly stable. Although
Ethiopian export prices have tended to rise in line with world prices, price
levels are below world market prices on average, due to the higher risk of
disease. In particular, Ethiopian prices are significantly lower than those
now being paid in Kenya, reflecting higher costs and larger trading margins.
However, with the expected improvement of the marketing system, veterinary
services and the production of better quality animals, it is likely that
Ethiopia will participate in the higher valued trade and that export prices
will increase at a greater rate during the coming years so as to reach world
levels. Current projections forecast an annual increase in world market
prices of 2.2% during the period 1978-1985. Whether these price increases
will be passed on to the producer will depend on a better integration of
stockowners into the market economy and Government's export and pricing policies.
6.08      Faced with a growing consumer demand and rising meat prices,
Government has instituted a system of price control. However, these controls
only apply to three broadly defined categories of animals, and permit prices
to be negotiated between buyer and seller over a range from Eth$ 150 to Eth$
350 per head. In addition, both smaller and larger animals have recently
been exempted from these restrictions. Thus it is considered that actual
prices will be determined by market conditions. It is in fact essential that
projected price increases for meat be passed on to the producer in order to
stimulate offtake from the national herd and to channel it into the market
stream; moreover, the small producers who are presently reluctant to sell
their animals may be influenced to change their outlook given greater financial
incentives. Hence, improved producer prices are not only an essential factor



- 33 -
in the development of the Ethiopian livestock industry, but are also parti-
cularly important to the success of the proposed Project. Therefore, assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that in taking any measures or adopting
any regulations concerning the production and marketing of livestock, Govern-
ment shall pay due consideration to the need to continue to increase pro-
duction and stimulate the sale of livestock.
C. Government Cash Flow (Annex 21)
6.09      At full development the Project would generate about Eth$ 3 million
of tax revenues annually; these would cover the Government's debt service
payments to IDA and ADF as well as the operating costs of the three implemen-
tation units, and would also allow Government to recuperate part of its initial
investment. Because of the large investment expenditures required by the
three sub-projects, the Government overall cash flow would, however, remain
negative. Consequently, Government is now giving consideration to the re-
commendation that it levy a special development tax in the form of a head tax
on the inhabitants of the Project areas; such a tax would be instituted only
at the end of the five-year implementation period. As long as the tax is set
at a moderate level, it is believed that this method of raising of additional
Government revenues in the rangelands areas would be justified.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would constitute a first step in the long term develop-
ment of the nomadic rangelands areas. It would provide basic infrastructure
such as roads and water facilities as well as veterinary and extension ser-
vices in an area which had previously received little if any direct Govern-
ment assistance. Through the restructuring of the traditional system of
extensive livestock production, the Project would increase the presently low
marketed offtake from the ranges and would substantially raise the value of
marketed livestock production; this would result in significantly increased
cash incomes for the nomadic producers, thereby integrating them more fully
into the local market economy. Finally, the improved animal husbandry
practices and the gradual stratification of the livestock industry would
increase exports of live animals and would provide an even flow of quality
meat both for export and for sale on local markets.
7.02      The main quantifiable benefits stemming from the Project would be
a substantial increase in marketed livestock and crop production (para. 6.03);
at full development (Year 7), this incremental production would be valued at
Eth$ 22.4 million annually. 1/ The incremental production would increase
foreign exchange earnings by enabling increased exports of live animals as
1/   This figure does not include the value of milk production, as this figure
was not included in the calculation of the economic rate of return.



- 34 -
well as chilled and frozen meat (para. 6.06). The Project would also have a
number of additional benefits which are more difficult to quantify. These
would include: (a) better nutrition for about 100,000 pastoral families
through increased milk production; (b) more sanitary and more accessible water
supplies for about the same number of pastoral families; (c) greater safeguard
against future droughts, thus reducing the extent of both human and livestock
deaths as well as the required level of Government expenditures for future
relief programs; and (d) rationalization and modernization of the traditional
livestock sector to safeguard the potential for livestock production of
Ethiopia's rangelands, thus laying the basis for further development of the
livestock industry.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis (Annex 22)
7.03      The overall economic rate of return for the Project over 20 years
is estimated at 24%. 1/ This rate of return is satisfactory, but is of course
subject to the risks noted below (paras. 7.05 and 7.06). Individual rates of
return were calculated for each of the three sub-projects; these are estimated
at about 22% for Southern Rangelands, 25% for Jijigga, and 26% for Northeast
Rangelands. Rates of return were also calculated for certain specific com-
ponents within these sub-projects; these are estimated at 17% for the ranches,
29% for the feedlot, and 13% for the water spreading/irrigation program.
Unskilled labor was shadow priced at Eth$ 300 per man year 2/ because of the
substantial underemployment in the range areas.  Foreign exchange was shadow
priced at a rate of Eth$ 2.70 per US$1.00 (as compared with an official rate
of Eth$ 2.07/US$1.00) to reflect more accurately the value of foreign exchange
to Ethiopia. If market prices had been used in the analysis, the rates of
return would be very similar to those noted above, with the exception of
the rate of return for the feedlot which would drop to 9%. 3/
7.04      The Project would not be particularly sensitive to changes in the
basic parameters. A 10% increase in costs would reduce the rate of return
from 24% to 21%, while a reduction of 10% in production would yield a rate
of return of 21%. A 25% increase in costs would give a rate of return of
187%, while a 25% reduction in benefit would reduce the return to 17%; a
combination of both assumptions would yield a rate of return of 12%. Thus
even under relatively unfavorable circumstances, the Project would yield a
reasonable rate of return.
1/   Including meat and crop production.  If milk production were included
the rate of return would be 27% overall.
2/   This represents approximately the income of a family in the subsistence
sector.
3/   The high rate of return for the feedlot (29%) is explained by the shadow
pricing of its foreign exchange earnings, as these represent 75% of
total production revenues.



- 35 -
7.05      The major risks facing the Project would be the ability and deter-
mination of Government to simultaneously staff and implement three large
projects, and the willingness of the nomads to accept changes in traditional
livestock management practices and to institute grazing and water controls.
LMB's management capability will in fact be one of the crucial determining
factors in the success of the Project. Thi5 management risk is however
difficult to quantify, and was therefore not included in the sensitivity
analysis. The risks are expected to be minimized through the provision of
supporting staff for LMB under the Project, and it is also believed that
LMB's planned reorganization should greatly enhance its operating efficiency.
One solution would have been to reduce both the size and the scope of the
Project by either curtailing individual components or by postponing one of
the three sub-projects; another solution might have been to reduce the area
covered by the Project. Both of these alternatives would, however, be self-
defeating. The scope of the individual components was greatly reduced and
the Project simplified in the course of appraisal, and as all the activities
are highly inter-dependent, any further reductions would endanger the effec-
tiveness of the entire effort. It was also felt that the activities in each
area should be initiated at basically the same time, for unless these develop-
ments were undertaken more or less simultaneously and were each of sufficient
size, there was a real danger that in times of stress the nomads would inun-
date those areas which offered improved water, veterinary and other services.
7.06      The Project would also be difficult in that it would require a
conservative nomadic people to institute substantial changes in their tradi-
tional practices. In fact, without these changes in the nomad traditional
livestock practices and cultural outlook, the rangelands would continue to
deteriorate as a result of overgrazing and other poor livestock management
practices. Hence, the main objective of the Project would be to achieve a
better balance between livestock herds and the carrying capacity of land by
means of persuasion, education and training and by providing greater financial
incentives to stockowners. Considerable efforts would be made to involve the
tribal authorities in the development effort, and the ability of the Project
management to ensure their active cooperation would be of prime importance to
the success of the Project. Overall, the risks associated with the Project
are relatively large, but in the long term they are substantially outweighed
by the significant benefits to be achieved.
Employment and Income Effects
7.07      The Project would ensure permanent employment for some 500 persons;
these persons would be directly employed by the Project for five years in
veterinary, range management, water development and other programs which
would be continued thereafter by Government: around 4,000 workers would be
given temporary employment during the Project implementation period. In addi-
tion, some 2,000 Afar families would obtain either permanent or seasonal em-
ployment on individual 1 ha plots as part of the Northeast Rangelands water
spreading program. These families would be chosen from among those now re-
ceiving famine relief under various drought rehabilitation programs now being



- 36 -
carried out in that area. It is estimated that these families would receive
the equivalent of an income of up to Eth$ 236 (US$114) as a result of this
program. Overall, the Project would affect an estimated 100,000 families in
the rangeland areas; the average annual per capita incomes of these pastoralists
would be increased from Eth$ 60 (US$29) to about Eth$ 85 (US$41) over the life
of the Project, thus substantially raising the incomes of one of the poorest
segments of Ethiopia's population.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on the
following principal points:
(a) the National Water Resources Commission would designate the
three Project Units as the water development authority for their
respective areas (para. 4.11);
(b)  the Ministry of Public Works would delegate to LMB the
authority to approve plans and provide for the construction of
certain Project buildings and field structures costing up
to Eth$ 20,000 per unit either through force account or by
local contractors hired by LMB, and the Ministry would make
arrangements satisfactory to the Association to reduce
delays in the approval of plans and execution of works for
all other Project constructions (para 4.32);
(c)  the accounts of LMB would continue to be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that LMB
would submit its annual accounts and the auditor's
report to IDA within six months of the end of its finan-
cial year (para. 4.34);
(d)  in taking any measures or adopting any regulations
concerning production and marketing of livestock, Govern-
ment shall pay due consideration to the need to continue
to increase production and stioulate the sale of livestock
(para 6.08).
8.02      It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that separate
accounts for each of the three sub-projects had been established and that
a deposit of funds had been made therein to cover the expenditures for the
first quarter of the Project implementation period starting January 1,
1976, such deposit to be made on the basis of a reasonable estimate of
the expenditures for such period (para 4.31).



- 37 -
8.03      A condition of disbursement for any one of the three sub-projects
taken individually would be that the Project Manager, the Senior Range
Management Officer, the Senior Financial Officer, and the Senior Veterinarian
had been recruited and that candidates for these posts and the terms and con-
ditions of their employment would be subject to IDA approval (para. 5.02).
8.04      The proposed Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$27
million on standard terms to the Government of Ethiopia.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock and the Economy
A. General
1.        In the absence of a detailed survey, it is estimated that the
national livestock population is made up of some 27 million cattle; 24 million
sheep; 18 million goats; 7 million horses, mules and donkeys; and one million
camels. There are also said to be about 48 million poultry and 13,000 pigs.
Cattle, sheep and goats are increasing slowly in number, probably at a rate of
around 4Z over the last ten years. About 60% of all livestock are owned by
highland farmers, and the remaining 40% by the nomadic pastoralists in the low-
land areas.
2.        About six to seven million (23% to 27%) of the national cattle
herd are work oxen for use in the highland farming areas and about ten mil-
lion (38%) are females of breeding age. Individual herd sizes are usually
larger in the nomadic areas; some 66% of nomadic owners have more than 9 head
as compared with only 10% to 20% in the case of highland livestock owners.
In the highland areas, females of breeding ages make up 20% to 25% of the
herd, whereas in the nomadic regions the comparable figures are 40% to 50%.
The highlands have more favorable natural conditions for livestock produc-
tion than do the lowlands, but in the highlands livestock must compete with
crops for resources, and this is usually possible only with a joint crop-
ping/livestock mixed farming system. On balance, the opportunities for live-
stock development are significantly greater in the nomadic areas.
B. Livestock Breeds
3.        By and large Ethiopian Livestock is indigenous.  Although it is
possible to identify, for each species, different breeds with many local
sub-types, most of the livestock population is the result of indefinite
crossbreeding. The local breeds all pertain to the Zebu species; however,
all the intermediate types between the true short-horned Zebu with a well
developed thoracic hump and the Sanga type with a small cervic-pthoracoc
hump and long lyre-shaped horns can be found. The main breeds located in
the Project areas are described below.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Cattle
4.        The Boran Zebu is found in the dry country of south and southeast-
ern Ethiopia. This short-horned Zebu has a good potential for beef produc-
tion and is extremely well-adapted to its semi-arid environment. Govern-
ment experimental studies show that with average management techniques, in
high potential rangeland a liveweight of 400 kg has been reached at 2.5 years.
Recent experiments in Kenya have also shown that native unimproved Boran cattle
raised on the range by traditional pastoralists are able to put on 800 g/day
when placed in feedlots. Milk production is relatively low.
5.        Short-horned Zebu are found in the administrative regions of Shoa,
Arussi and Hararge, and are very similar to the Boran type. The 122 local
Arussi cows kept at the Cobe breeding farm (CADU project) have produced an
average of 215 kg milk during the 1970-71 recording year; 11.4 percent of these
give more than 500 kg, with the maximum yield being 1,228 kg/year. Growth
potential in feedlot seems rather limited and even under improved manage-
ment young heifers have not usually gained more than 350-400 g/day.
6.        Adal (or Danakil), the only representatives of the Sanga type in
Ethiopia, are rather light frame cattle with a typical small cervic-thoracic
hump and long lyre-shaped horns. They are well adapted to the arid climate
prevailing in the far northeast of Ethiopia and in the lower and middle
Awash Valley. They are poor milk producers (200-300 kg milk in 150 days
lactation) but their potential for beef production in feedlot is reasonable;
when adequately fed, the average gain can be up to 500 g/day.
Sheep
7.        Sheep breeds are all indigenous and they are mostly exploited for
their meat. Along with goats, sheep provide most of the meat eaten by the
rural community, although in the highlands cash crops often provide sufficient
returns to the planters to allow them to buy some beef. All the lowland sheep
are of the hair-type, and skins are an important by-product. The ewes also
provide nomadic families with a regular supply of milk. Although the high-
land sheep population is mostly of a very mixed type due to frequent and
indiscriminate inter-breeding, two well-differentiated types can be noted.
8.        The Black-headed Somali fat-rumped sheep of the eastern and north-
eastern lowlands are also known as Ogaden or Harar sheep. They have a rather
high adult liveweight (35 kg), giving a carcass of the quality requested by
Arab importing countries. This breed seems to offer good prospects for genetic
improvements. It is a hairy type and the animals are never shorn. Milk poten-
tial seems to be satisfactory and ewes are usually milked during the second
and third months of lactation. Lambs are weaned at 6-7 months of age. Females
are bred at 18 months but sometimes as early as 6-7 months. Ewes are normally
bred once a year and culled when 7 years old. A 65-70 percent lamb crop seems
normal with a twinning rate of 4-5 percent under the traditional management
system. Castrated males are usually sold at 3 years old. Most of the sheep
involved in the Project would be of this type.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.        The Highland Type is found mostly in the highland areas north of
Addis Ababa. This fat-tailed breed is small and matures slowly. Most sheep
are therefore slaughtered at a liveweight of 22-23 kg. Ewes can be bred twice
a year and they are culled at 8-10 years of age. The fleece is inferior in
both quality and quantity. Where sheep are shorn (which is quite an uncommon
practice) average fleece weight is 0.250 kg/head. Nevertheless, this type of
sheep represents close to 75 percent of the Ethiopian sheep population and
produces mutton which finds an excellent outlet on the internal market (mainly
in Addis Ababa).
Goats
10.       Unlike sheep, most of the goat population (75 percent) is spread
over the arid lowlands. Goats are kept mainly for local meat consumption
and to a lesser extent for milk production. Skins are the source of a pro-
fitable export trade. Goats are not given sufficient attention by the
official services and hence information on them is scanty.
C. National Herd Production Parameters
Vital Statistics
11.       Vital statistics on livestock in Ethiopia are of questionable
reliability owing to the absence of carefully collected data. Nevertheless
figures are available which appear to have some validity - especially in the
case of the cattle population.
12.       Cattle.  Calving rates are very low.  Cows calve for the first time
when 3-1/2 years old and thereafter about every two years. Calf mortality in
the first year is extremely high - about 30 percent in an average year.-
Mortality rates are still substantial in the later years: 8 percent between
1 and 2; 5 percent between 2 and 3; and 7 percent for 3 year-old cattle and
older. This means that losses amount to approximately 8.5 percent of the
total herd.
13.       Nearly all the cattle are slaughtered without passing through a
finishing period. This is confirmed by the low dressing percentages ob-
served, i.e. 45 percent on average and even below 42 percent for the older
animals. At the Dire Dawa packing plant, the average liveweight of the
slaughtered cattle (exclusively adults) was 280 kg, with a dressing percentage
of 50 percent and a boneless meat yield of 71-72 percent. These figures imply
a carcass weight of 140 kg. The small size of the local Zebus can be
attributed to the high incidence of internal parasites and to the generally
poor grazing conditions prevailing over most of the year. Liveweight and
carcass yield of the native Zebus could be increased considerably if the
animals were to pass through a 3-5 month fattening phase before slaughter.
One finishing system used by the traditional sector produces the so-called
"Harar beef" which is sold at significantly higher prices on the Addis
Ababa market.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
14.       Sheep and Goats.  Vital statistics for sheep and goats are even
scarcer than for cattle. Breeding females represent 37 percent and 33 per-
cent of the total flock for sheep and goats respectively. The average carcass
weight for highland sheep is estimated at 10 kg. The Somali Black-head breed
has substantially different characteristics. Liveweight is higher (28-29 kg
for mature ewes and 30-35 kg for 3-7 year-old castrates), but fertility is
lower (a 65-70 percent lamb crop is the average, with 4 percent of births
being twins). Longevity is relatively shorter and ewes are usually culled
when over 6 years old. Females are normally bred for the first time at 18
months. Adult mortality has been estimated at 7-8 percent/year in the absence
of major disease outbreaks. Mortality at birth is high (10-20 percent) and
the death rate remains high for up to six months.
15.       Goats are kept mainly for subsistence.  No reliable information is
available regarding their number and performance. They are generally of
comparatively small size; LMB estimated an average carcass weight of 8.5 kg.
The fertility rate is about 90 percent, and each goat produces 1.5 kids per
annum. Mortality rates are slightly lower than for sheep.
16.       Ethiopian livestock show a low standard of feeding, breeding,
health and managment. Under-nutrition, malnutrition and disease are major
constraints to increased production in the greater part of the country, and
also have a serious detrimental effect on exports of livestock and livestock
products. The combination of these factors makes the Ehtiopian livestock
industry one of the less efficient in the world. On the other hand, the
country does have a tremendous potential for increased livestock production,
particularly from the range areas. The country's large livestock population
constitutes an invaluable resource which should be exploited.
D. Value of Livestock Production and Exports
17.       The contribution of the various sectors to total livestock pro-
duction is shown below:



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Estimated Production (1970) 1/
Eth$ (million)
Meat
Beef                                 180.4
Mutton                                33.7
Goats                                 30.1
Poultry                               38.1
Other                                  2.3
Sub-total                            284.6
Other animal products
Milk                                 147.8
Hides and skins                       21.2
Eggs                                  39.7
Other and by-products                 60.3
Sub-total                            269.0
Total                                      553.6
18.       In 1970, total registered exports were estimated at Eth$294.6
million, of which agricultural exports amounted to Eth$281.1 or 96 percent.
Coffee, contributing some 58 percent of total export value, is by far the
major item. Recorded livestock exports have been estimated at Eth$33 mil-
lion or approximately 11 percent of the total. The breakdown of the rele-
vant livestock export figures for the last decade is given below:
1961      1965       1968       1969       1970
----------------- Eth$ million -------------
Hides and Skins      22.5       23.7      24.9       29.2       24.3
Live Animals
and Meat            3.7       10.8       8.7        8.1        8.2
Total              26.2       34.5      33.6       37.3       32.5
______-----------------X%--------------------
Above as % of
Total Exports      14.4       12.2      13.0       12.7       11.0
1/   Source:  FAO Livestock and Meat Industries in Ethiopia (Nov. 1973).



ANNEX 1
Page 6
19.       The Livestock and Meat Board estimated that unrecorded exports in
1970 totalled about 800,000 sheep and 60,000 cattle. Including these figures,
total exports of livestock and livestock products would have been around
Eth$59 million in 1970 - equivalent to about 20% of total exports.
July 22, 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock and Meat Board
1.        The Livestock and Meat Board (LMB) was established in 1964 to
function as a specialized autonomous Government agency aimed at developing
the production, processing and marketing of livestock and livestock products.
Its objectives and purposes also include support of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture's national veterinary program and the encouragement of production and
marketing of livestock through the dissemination of information and the
stimulation of research. To carry out its objectives, LMB was given broad
controlling and regulatory powers to construct or establish stockroutes,
watering points and marketing facilities. Its powers also include the
imposition and collection of fees on all livestock using facilities provided
by the Board and on livestock and livestock products being exported from
Ethiopia.
2.        The activities of LMB are wide and varied; they include the inspec-
tion of hygiene standards at export processing plants and the issue of export
permits, the operation of a feed mix plant, the Shola poultry center and ten
recently nationalized meat processing plants. LMB also carries out studies
and surveys (e.g. covering ways and means of increasing the export of live
sheep, poultry production and consumption etc.) and its Project Office is
engaged in the preparation of a number of projects for possible presentation
to IDA. Responsibility for the implementation of the proposed Nomadic Range-
lands Development Project would be given to IMB; this would greatly broaden
the scope of its activities and put its operations on a much larger scale
than has hitherto been the case.
Organization and Staffing
3.        The LMB now has a Board of Directors under the chairmanship of the
Minister of Agriculture, or his duly authorized representative; its members
comprise one representative of each of the Ministries of Public Health,
Commerce and Industry, Finance, and National Community Development desig-
nated by the respective ministries. Membership of the Board of Directors
also includes one representative of each of traders, processors and producers
designated by the Minister of Agriculture after consultation with representa-
tive bodies of these sections of the industry. This organizational structure
may be substantially revised under a proposed reorganization of the Ministry
of Agriculture. If this plan is put into effect the Board of Directors would
be abolished, and the General Manager of LMB would be responsible directly to
the head of the Livestock Resources Development Department to be established
within the Ministry.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        The General Manager is the executive head of the LMB.  As the Board
is now organized, all heads of departments (Planning, Research and Information
Department, Marketing Department, Administration Department, Accounts Depart-
ment, Project Office) and heads of subsidiaries and subsidiary activities
(Second Livestock Project, Shola poultry center, feed mix plant and ten meat
processing plants) are in direct line responsibility to the General Manager
(see Chart, World Bank 9815). Given LMB's varied responsibilities, the
position of the General Manager is rapidly becoming an untenable one, as far
too many activities are expected to be coordinated directly by him. If the
responsibility of implementing and operating the Nomadic Rangelands Development
Project is to be added to all these activities, it is obvious that LMB will
have to be reorganized if it is to be able to properly carry out its designated
tasks.
5.        In accordance with the terms of the credit agreement for the Second
IDA Livestock Development Project, LMB employed a firm of Management Consult-
ants (McLintock Mann and Whinney Murray, London) to assist the Board in the
design and introduction of an effective accounting system with respect to
expenditures under the Project and with respect to the accounts of the
Board as a whole. It is expected that the consultants' proposal for changes
in LMB's accounting procedures will be adopted. The consultants also proposed
to restructure LMB on the basis of current operations and likely future devel-
opments. These suggestions have been amended somewhat by Government, and the
current proposal is contained in an attached Chart (World Bank 9814). This
new organization would limit the number of senior officers reporting directly
to the General Manager to five. Two new posts would be created: the Head
of the Rangeland Development Department (who would serve as the coordinator
of the three sub-projects) and the Head of the Animal Industry Development
Department (with responsibility for the feed-mix plant, the poultry center,
and the meat processing plants). The Finance Department headed by a quali-
fied Financial Controller would be divided into three divisions: Accounts,
Budgeting and Procurement. The remaining two Departments would be a Livestock
II Department with responsibility for the Second IDA Livestock Project, and
an Administration and Personnel Department. The offices of the Legal Adviser
and the Internal Auditor would be directly attached to the General Manager's
Office. The above plan is at present under consideration by Government.
July 24, 1974



ANNEX 2
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock and Meat Board
Balance Sheets
(Eth$ t 000)
1974        1973        1972      1971
As of July 7                 (Unaudited)  (Audited) (Audited) (Audited)
Fixed Assets                     910        793       475        413
Investments                      h06        253       253        253
Other Investments              1,031        383       308         -
Treasury bills                   -          299       -          500
Other Assets                     183        167        20         20
Current Assets
Stocks                           3         37        51          4
Sundry Debts                    67        253       128         61
Cash                           405       628      1,349     1,221
Total Current Assets         475       918      1,528     1,286
Less: Current Liabilities      115         85        34         17
Net Current Assets           360       833      1,494     1,269
Total Assets                   2,890      2,728     2,550      2,455
Financed by
Income & Expenditure Account 2,890    2,728       2,550      2,455
Balance
April 30, 1975



ANNEX 2
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock and Mat Board
Statements of Income and Expenditure
(Eth$ 000)
Year ended July 7               1974       1973        1972        1971
(Unaudited) (Audited)   (Audited)  (Audited)
INCOME
Fees                        1,036       1,249         890         739
Interest & other income          3         23          62          12
Total Income              1,039       1,272         952         751
EXPENDITURE
Salaries & allowances          535        597         538         406
Overhead expenses              104        114           91         77
Transport                     100         177         112          94
Surveys                         64        108          46          14
Financial & legal               11          9            7          5
Depreciation                    79         77          48          40
Bad debts                        9         10          15          18
Total Expenditure           902       1,092         857         654
EXCESS OF INCOME OVER
EXPENDITURE                   137         180          95          97
Adjustments                     25         (2)          -          -
1=anoe brought forward       2,728      2,550        2,455      2,358
2,890      2,728       2,550       2,455
CUNILATIVE BALANCE
April 30, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LMB PRESENT ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of Directors         j
General Manager
Administration                   Marketing                  IDA Livestock |1                      Accounts                    Planning, Research   lr (Identification
Department                       Department                 Project Administration               Department                   & Information Dept.          |     i& Preparation)
Feed-Mix                                       Shola Poultry                               IDA Drought       2/
Pl ant                                         Center                                       RehabilIitation Project
- There are indications that all boards of directors of Government agencies will be abolished
and their authority vested in the Minister concerned.
- Northeast Rangeland component of IDA Drought Rehabilitation Project.
World Bank-9815



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LMB PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of Directors -
Internal Auditor                                              General Manager                                                  Legal Adviser
IDA Livestock 11                             Finance                                                                                Rangeland                                   Animal Industry
IDArLivenct    11nDepartment                                                         Administration and                             Development                                 Development
Personnel Dept.                                Department                                 Department
Marketing                                                               z
Department                                                            r
Southern                                   Jijigga                                     Northeast
Rangelands                                Rangelands                                   Rangelands
Project                                   Project                                      Project
- There are indications that all boards of directort of Government agencies will be abolished
and their authority vested in the Minister concerned.
World Bank- 9814(3R)



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Ethiopian Rangelands:  Prospects for Development
1.        Rangelands are defined as those areas which grow natural (wild)
vegetation and which for some ecological reason--normally low rainfall, but
in some cases poor soils or extreme temperatures--are unsuited for cultiva-
tion. In Ethiopia the ranges cover some 500,000 km2 or about 42% of the
total land area of the country. The vast majority of these lands are found in
areas below 1,700 meters at an altitude where the rainfall is less than 600
mm per annum. While no accurate figures are available, it is estimated that
the ranges contain a human population of 2.5 million, 5.5 million cattle,
4.5 million sheep, 2.5 million goats and 1 million camels. In addition to
providing subsistence for the largely nomadic population the rangelands
provide the (highland) cultivated arQas with livestock and livestock products,
and they are presently the only areas with a net surplus of cattle for
domestic consumption or for export.
2.        The rangelands have an immense potential for the sustained produc-
tion of livestock and livestock products, and they are unique in that this
potential could be exploited with only relatively small additional capital
inputs. Such a program would, however, necessitate stringent restrictions
on the number of animals using these areas and the imposition of a voluntary
and comprehensive system of range use controls. If this could be achieved,
the rangelands could make a significant contribution to the future develop-
ment of the agricultural sector.
A. Present State of the Range Areas
3.        Over the centuries nature has maintained a precarious balance
between man, his domestic livestock, and the wild herbivores. The number
of people and animals utilizing the ranges has tended to increase gradually
over the good years until they reach a point beyond which the land can support
them. At this point the lack of adequate grazing and water supplies result
in widespread livestock losses from disease and starvation; these in turn
often lead to deaths and disease among the nomadic livestock owners, as they
depend almost entirely on their animals for subsistence. In the drought
years, losses often reach catastrophic proportions. The major factor which
has contributed to the recurrence of this cycle is the traditional system
whereby communally owned lands are grazed by individually owned livestock.
Under this system no individual gains from controlling the numbers in his
own herd, for any vegetation or water thus "saved" would be immediately
consumed by his neighbor's stock. The ever-recurring cycle is reinforced



ANNEX 3
Page 2
by the deaths and livestock losses attributable to inter-tribal friction;
this friction generally develops over access to grazing and water, and
consequently becomes even more serious during the drought periods.
4.        A secondary contributing factor to the deterioration of the ranges
has been the increasing encroachment of settled agriculture on the best dry
season grazing areas. The settlement was mainly the result of Government's past
practice of allocating land to Government officials and pensioners, and this
practice was further aggravated by the fact that in many cases basically
nomadic people have taken up a sort of "defensive" cultivation to preserve
their claims to specific areas. These excisions have disturbed the cyclical
transhumant movement of the stockowners and have exerted intolerable pressure
on other areas within the grazing pattern. Additional pressure then results
as the sedentary farmers build up their own flocks and herds and maintain them
throughout the year around water points in areas which previously suffered
only seasonal grazing pressure. Over the past five decades, these factors
have all contributed to the significant deterioration of the Ethiopian range
areas. Moreover, as the nomads are increasingly restricted within an ever-
tightening boundary, the situation is gradually worsening and is now approach-
ing the point where the damage to the existing vegetation will become perma-
nent unless immediate remedial action is taken.
B. Future Range Development
5.        It is crucial to the future of the rangelands that all development
efforts affecting these areas are coordinated and integrated into an overall
range management program. While ordinarily uncoordinated efforts may result
in duplication of effort and a waste of resources, in the range areas such
an approach could well aggravate the existing situation. For example, the
provision of extra water facilities without the imposition of grazing controls
can lead to over-stocking and destruction of vegetation; likewise improved
disease control without the provision of improved marketing facilities and
stratification of the livestock industry can lead to an excessive build-up
of stock numbers. Also, unless stringent controls are imposed, improved
road access may lead to the excision of essential dry season grazing areas
for settled cultivation.  All development activities it these areas must
therefore be carefully evaluated to determine their long term consequences
and positive efforts made to ensure the preservation of the natural grazing
areas.
6.        As a first step a land use plan should be drawn up for each of the
range areas; these will necessarily vary from one region to another due to
differences in climate, tribal customs, vegetation, water supply, existing
facilities, etc. Such a plan would help to protect the interests of the
nomadic pastoralists and at the same time it would allow the identification
of pockets of land within the range areas which could be cultivated without
doing damage to the productivity of the range as a whole. Once the land use
plan has been drawn up, an integrated range development program can then be
undertaken. Such a program would include but not be limited to:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(a) Development of water supplies. Any water program must
necessarily include a concomitant agreement by the nomads
to limit the number of livestock using these facilities.
(b) Demarcation of grazing areas and the imposition of controls
with regard to the period each area would be open for use.
(c) Regulation of stock numbers. Support for this would be
generated by an extension program designed to encourage
an increased offtake and by the provision of additional
market outlets.
(d) Restrictions on burning of the range and on the cutting
of trees and shrubs.
(e) Strict regulation of the excision of any additional part
of the range for cultivation.
(f) Construction of roads to allow improved access to remote
areas.
(g) Disease control through an extended veterinary program.
(h) Training of nomadic livestock owners in improved husbandry
techniques, range management, disease control practices, etc.
C. ProJect Range Management Program
Range Management - Different Systems and their Consequences
7.        The purpose of the range management program proposed under the
Project is to:
(a) Enable existing users of the rangelands to continue to meet
their subsistence needs from their livestock herds, but with
a switch away from the direct consumption of livestock products
to trading these products for other foods.
(b) Maximize the net sustainable marketed output of livestock
from the Project area.
(c) Lay the foundations for a range management system to meet
present and future social, economic, and ecological requirements.
By range management is meant the whole complex of land tenure, livestock
movements, the adjusting of stocking rates to feed availabilities, the rota-
tion and resting of pastures, reseeding or the introduction of new varieties,
the control of burning and cutting, and the development of water supplies.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
8.        There is a traditional system of range management in the Project
areas which grew up to meet specific ecological, economic and socio-political
conditions. 1/ It was a fairly efficient and largely self-sufficient and self-
regulating system, which has, however, come under increasing strain during
the last century due to increasing human and livestock numbers. Under the
traditional system the movements of livestock and therefore the adjustment
of stock numbers to the availability of grazing were governed by:
(a) The regular climatic seasons.
(b) The stochastic incidence of rainfall both within seasonal
patterns and between adjacent areas.
(c) The distribution of water at different seasons.
(d) Requirements for different types of pasture or water (e.g.
short grass for lambing sheep, salt water for camels) at
certain times of year for reasons of good animal husbandry.
(e) Random socio-political conditions.
Under the traditional system rapid adjustment can be made in response to
both regular climatic seasons and to the stochastic incidence of rainfall.
Livestock are moved two or three hundred kilometers according to the onset
of seasonal rains in different areas. Advantage can be taken of scattered
showers and thunderstorms which fall on some areas while adjacent areas
remain dry. Because of the absence of restrictions to mobility (e.g. bound-
aries of landholdings) the herbage can be exploited when its nutrient value
is highest, and the "risk" arising from rainfall is limited to that arising
from the uncertain total quantity falling on the whole area within seasons
and is not affected by uncertainty as to exactly where within the area the
rainfall will be precipitated. As a consequence the traditional system
permits a much higher overall stocking rate at any point in time than do
less flexible systems.
9.        Even before the onset of current strains on it, the traditional
system had defects. Adjustments in stock numbers followed rather than pre-
ceded or accompanied the events whlich made them necessary (e.g. random or
cyclical changes in rainfall amount, or changes in herd numbers arising from
the incidence of disease), for where ownership of livestock is by individuals
but grazing is communal, no individual gains from his own destocking. Inade-
quate incentives existed to improve the conditions on communal rangelands,
since the returns from doing so were not related to the individual's efforts.
Water supplies were not distributed according to the availability of grazing
(and hence the need for water) but according to the technical capacity which
1/  Government of Ethiopia, LMB Southern Rangelands Development Project,
Part II Volume 2, Sociology and Pastural Economy, Agrotec, 1974.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
existed to locate water and to raise it to where animals can drink it. Never-
theless stock numbers were kept in rough balance with (or at any rate not much
above) the capacity of the rangelands to feed them by the haphazard incidence
of disease, by recurring droughts and the consequent death of livestock (and
subsequently humans) from starvation, and by the limitation imposed on stock
numbers by inadequate water supplies.
10.       The strains on the traditional system are increasing.  Anti-Locust
and Anti-Rinderpest campaigns have reduced, or are reducing, these effective
curbs on stock numbers. Technology, in the form of concrete lined water tanks
(Berekedus), is increasing the availability of water. The traditionally tribally
imposed range discipline is crumbling. The area of the rangelands is decreasing
as the area of cultivation increases. Consequent deterioration in the
condition of the rangelands is appearing. Above all, the loss of livestock
and of human life in cyclical readjustments of stocking rates to range capacity
is no longer acceptable. In the light of these changes, and given the con-
tinuing growth of human population and the pressure for higher per capita
incomes, modification of the old system, or a new system, is required. A
minimum rate of growth in net output of 4% per annum from the rangelands is
needed to give even the most modest growth in per capita incomes.
11.       Whatever overall system is adopted, some progress can be made in
accommodating more people at higher incomes simply by a switch in diet wtlch
substitutes cereals, traded for livestock output, for the direct consumption
of the livestock products themselves. The prospective rise in relative
prices of livestock products during the next decade, and the reduction in
transport costs which can be brought about by improvements in roads, will
make this switch easier. The rise in the price of livestock products will
also give an incentive to the needed rise in the physical productivity of
the land.
12.       There are five major broad alternatives to existing traditional
systems of range management. One alternative would be to split the communal
rangelands into individual holdings. Such a system would give the greatest
incentive to individuals to improve the productivity of their land, and some
incentive to keep stock numbers down to the land's carrying capacity (although
the existence of individual forms of land tenure has not been sufficient
incentive to do these things in some other parts of Ethiopia and Africa).
This system would, however, make the provision of facilities showing economies
of scale (water supplies, fencing, dips) prohibitively expensive. It would
also greatly reduce the stocking capacity of the land at any point in time,
for the same reasons that the transhumant system maximizes it. This is
particularly true of the lower rainfall parts of the Project areas.
13.       Another alternative would be the formation of group ranches (along
lines tried in other countries), where groups of individuals own land in
common and their livestock either in common or individually, with these
livestock being kept throughout the year on the same block of land. Such
a system would make the basic units "creditworthy," and would give some in-
centive to individuals to increase the productivity of land and to preserve
proper stocking rates (not as big an incentive as in the case of individual



ANNEX 3
Page 6
holdings however). It would also be a method by which "authorized" stocking
rates could be enforced, by making it possible for the authorities actually
to count stock, and to associate those stock with particular people. Econo-
mies of scale in the provision of facilities (water, fencing, etc.) could
be realized. No advantage, however, could be taken of the seasonality of
rainfall in different parts of the Project area, and only a small reduction
in "risk" over the system of individual holdings would be achieved in respect
of the uncertain distribution of total rainfall in any season between different
sections of the Project area. At any point in time, therefore, the stocking
capacity of such a system would be lower than the corresponding capacity at
that time of the traditional transhumant system.
14.       A third system would be to associate groups of people with several
pieces of land in different climatic zones within the Project area (so as to
take advantage of the different vegetation types and rainfall seasons), which
their livestock, and their livestock alone, would be allowed to graze. Such
a system would secure many advantages of the present transhumant system, and
would also give some incentive to increase land productivity and to control
stock numbers. It would make it moderately easy for the Project administration
to check on whether authorized stocking rates were being observed. It would,
however, involve a complete abandonment of traditional tribal territories,
and considerable difficulties in arranging a fair distribution of land of
different qualities in different places.
15.       A fourth system would be to associate a particular group of people
with one (and only one) piece of land, but to allow other people--with the
permission of the "owning" group and on payment of a grazing fee--to graze
their livestock on this bit of land. While in theory giving the owning group
the incentive to improve the land and to control stock numbers at an optimum
rate, such a system is very close to the present system and the incentive
may not be strong enough to lead to the sort of changes needed.
16.       A final alternative is for Government to assume complete respon-
sibility for land improvement and for imposing the appropriate stocking rate
in conjunction with the continuance of the present transhumant system.
Although this would make the administration of land and pasture improvement
work easy, the task of counting livestock and associating these livestock
with a particular group of people in the program in order to limit stock
numbers is almost impossible to carry out.
The Proposed Long Term Policy for the Project Area
17.       The time is not yet ripe for irrevocable steps to be taken towards
implementing any one of the first four broad alternative systems outlined in
the preceding paragraphs as a final solution to the problems of the rangelands
in the Project area. Much information still needs to be collected and pro-
cessed before irrevocable decisions can be made. Foremost among this inform-
ation is:
(a) a complete inventory of permanent water points with their capacity
at different times of the year;



ANNEX 3
Page 7
(b) a reliable inventory of vegetation resources, present trends and
potential carrying capacity of different vegetation zones under
different management systems;
(c) a list of that part of the human population of the Project area
which is mainly dependent on the rangelands for its livelihood,
by tribe and sub-tribe as a preliminary step to a registration
of right holders. An estimate should be made of the total
livestock holdings (by kind) of each group;
(d) more detailed information than has been obtained so far on
migration patterns, their causes, extent, timing and frequency.
As far as can be judged, neither official nor private opinion in the Project
area is yet ripe for the allocation of rights in a particular piece of
rangeland along the lines of the first four broad systems enumerated above.
The indigenous inhabitants of the Project area are frightened lest any fur-
ther plans for allocation of land rights, however ostensibly aimed at the
benefit of the indigenous people, should merely be a device for opening the
door to further immigration and land-grabbing by outsiders. However, opinions
will change over the period of the Project, as the local inhabitants gain
confidence in the integrity of the Project organization, and when officials
are brought to see both the limited scope for further immigration from outside
the area, and the utility of proper range development.
18.       With the information at present available, the appropriate long-
term policy for the true rangelands area appears to be the continuation of a
transhumant system of range management, with livestock herds moving both
according to the broad general patterns indicated by the seasons, and oppor-
tunistically to take advantage of random events within these broad patterns.
In order to give an incentive for development, and to relieve Government of
the administrative burden of being responsible for the execution of all the
details of range management, blocks of land should be allocated to groups of
pastoralists, under appropriate conditions, for them to develop, manage, and
obtain the benefits from. Access to these blocks should not be limited to
the livestock of the owning group, but should be open to those of other groups
also, under suitable contractual arrangements. The general range management
policy should be to reintroduce order and discipline to the transhumant
system, so that the seasonal grazing pattern is established, and so that
adequate rest is given to the range. The conservation--of adequate forage
for dry season grazing reserves is the most urgent need. Attention should
for this reason be given to the establishment of dry season reserves around
existing permanent water points, and to the renovation of areas of depletion
by rest and rotation. Water development should be used to increase the dry
season range areas (but only within a system of management) and to take some
of the pressure off the existing water points.
19.       While attention should be given to the dry season reserves, all
other rangeland used in other seasons should also gradually be brought under
a management plan which will include both the setting of stocking rates and
rotation deferred and rest rotation grazing systems. Stocking rates should
be set to maintain the correct number and class of livestock on the range in



ANNEX 3
Page 8
order to establish reserve-stocking which will permit a sustained yield of
livestock and livestock products to be harvested while maintaining range
condition. Burning, lopping and destruction of range browse, shrubs and
trees should be controlled. The application of range management must be
affected with the full cooperation of the vast majority of range users, else
it will be unenforceable; legal sanctions must be introduced for the measures
to be adopted.
20.       Investment requirements (water supplies, access tracks, dips, etc.)
should be determined and the investment carried out. Those families should
be identified whose livestock holdings have fallen below the minimum viable
level required to partake in the transhumant system, and either means provided
to bring them up to the required level, or these families should be removed
from the ranges and settled on land identified under the land use plan as
being most suitable for cultivation.
21.       Since it is not possible to regard the Project area as a closed sys-
tem, long-term policy and land allocation to groups should also take into ac-
count the needs of pastoral groups who are not present in the Project area
throughout the year, but who migrate to and from other parts of Ethiopia.
It will be necessary to extend development into adjacent areas in the not too
distant future if the Project is not to act as a magnet attracting livestock
from those areas.
Project Range Management Activities
22.       The range development activities initiated under the Project would
support this long-term term policy through concentrated investments in water
and expanded veterinary services, as well as through the introduction of
improved range management techniques. Each of the three sub-projects would
have a well-staffed Range Management Department which would be responsible
for the implementation of range development policies in its area. The head
of the department would be an experienced range management expert; he would
in turn be assisted by a number of range assistants stationed throughout the
Project area. These staff would be complemented by range guards, enclosure
guards and water scouts, all of whom would be selected from among the communi-
ties in which they would work and who would be trained for several months by
the Project; together with the veterinary scouts, they would be responsible
for Project extension activities among the livestock owners. The Project
Range Management Departments would devise range use plans, establish maps
of land use categories, and plan grazing systems. By means of a constant
dialogue between the Project staff, the tribal authorities and the livestock
owners, it is expected that commttnity decisions regarding the establishment of
the ranches, the setting aside of grazing reserves and the development of stock
water can be made without undue difficulty. In essense therefore the
Project would involve a comprehensive non-formal educational effort based on
a constant interchange of ideas between the beneficiaries of Project services
and those charged with the responsibility of implementing them. It is hoped
that once the tribal communities in the range areas come to a better under-
standing of the forces which regulate their environment, they will increas-
ingly be able to assume control of the development activities.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
23.       Southern Rangelands.  The range management program in the Southern
Rangelands Project area would center around the establishment of the four back-
grounding and fattening ranches where improved range management techniques
would be introduced in relatively concentrated areas; it is hoped that once
the success of these practices has been demonstrated on the ranches, they would
then be adopted for extensive use by the nomads themselves. The development
of additional water resources would be given particular attention, as over 50%
of the range is now without stock water; in order to prevent uncontrolled de-
velopment, the water program would provide only about 1/3 of the resources
necessary for maximum use, and the program would be carefully, integrated with
the range management activities. Agreement has not yet been obtained for set-
ting aside dry season grazing reserves in the area, for although certain groups
more or less control specific grazing areas, they are also utilized by other
groups (particularly in times of drought); these agreements would be negotiated
during the course of the Project. The SORDU Range Management Department would
coordinate the activities of the range extension agents, the water scouts, and
the operation of the four ranches; this coordination would ensure that all the
activities directly affecting the status of the range areas would be fully
integrated.
24.       Jijigga.  The range management program to be initiated in the
Jijigga area would be somewhat more intricate than that being implemented in
the Southern Rangelands. This would be possible as the Somali tribes in the
area are relatively sophisticated livestock keepers who are able to exercise
a relatively high degree of control over range use. Therefore a somewhat
different approach is called for. In the first year a land use plan for the
Jijigga area would be drawn up and the land zoned into areas suitable for
cultivation, rangeland, fodder reserves and for settlement 1/. Within the
area to be gazetted as natural range, dry season grazing reserves would be
established based on both existing and new permanent watering points; these
reserves would be selected by the tribal groups in collaboration with JIRDU,
and agreements to this effect have already been signed. In principle these
reserves would be closed to all livestock except during the dry season, and
the grazing restrictions would be enforced by range guards selected from among
the tribes. As part of an effort to involve the individual clans in range
development, a system of range associations of stockowners would be established;
the recommended range policies would be discussed with these groups and they
would be made increasingly responsible for the overall development. Finally
two pilot fodder banks would be established to serve as a fodder reserve and
to test the efficacy of selected planting materials. These activities would
be carried out by the JIRDU Range Management Department.
1/ While this system can be enforced for the most part under existing
legislation, some supplemental legislation may also be necessary.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
25.       Northeast Rangelands.  The Northeast Rangelands area is only now
emerging from the recent drought which brought about widespread famine and
a drastic reduction in total livestock numbers. The drought also severely
damaged the rangelands themselves; large areas are bare of any vegetation,
and other areas are only now gradually beginning to recover with the aid
last year's rains. With the large reduction in the total stock numbers, the
ranges are now able - even with their greatly reduced carrying capacity - to
support the existing herds without undue pressure. This situation will not
prevail for long, however, as it is estimated that within 10 years the herds
will once again have been built up to their former levels. Consequently, un-
less some controls are achieved within this time, the ranges will once again
be over-stocked. This area thus offers a unique opportunity to institute im-
proved range management practices at a time when the immediate control of
numbers is not the most important consideration. As part of this strategy,
an inventory of each tribal grazing area would be made to serve as a guide
in the selection of range reserves. At full development some 15 dry season
grazing reserves totalling about 8,000 km2 would be established. All decisions
with regard to the opening and closing of these reserves would be made by
tribal authorities in cooperation with the NERDU Range Management Department.
Eight fodder banks averaging 10 ha in size to be used as fodder reserves in
time of drought would also be established. Finally, the NERDU Range Manage-
ment Department would carry out various studies on the use of enclosures,
vegetation, the development of fodder reserves, etc.
October 31, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Veterinary Services
A. The National Veterinary Service
1.        Overall responsibility for veterinary and animal health services
rests with the Department of Veterinary Services within the Ministry of
Agriculture. The Department has three main Divisions: Field and Extension,
Research and Laboratory and a Specialist Service (policy and financing) under
the Director General; there are also two additional service units - the
Tsetse Control Unit and the Meat Inspection Unit. The Field and Extension
Division administers the national veterinary field service; it has one or
two veterinary offices stationed in each province, supported by Animal Health
Assistants and vaccinators at the Awraja and Woreda level. Eight veterinary
clinics provide diagnostic facilities for this field staff. The Research and
Laboratory Division administers the central veterinary laboratory at Debre
Zeit and a regional laboratory in Asmara. These laboratories - particularly
the central unit - provide support for the diagnostic field units and produce
vaccines against Rinderpest, Bovine Pleuropneumonia, Pasteurellosis,
Buccellosis, Anthrax and (in Asmara) horse sickness. The Meat Inspection Unit
administers a national inspection service at all abbatoirs and at the port
at Assab, and also provides training for the meat inspectors.
2.        The national veterinary service now has a staff comprised of:
45   Ethiopian veterinarians;
40 expatriate veterinarians supplied under
technical assistance;
150 animal health assistants; and
700 vaccinators trained by the field service.
This level of staff is not sufficient to provide adequate veterinary services
throughout the country, and consequently the services provided in most areas
are at best rudimentary. The operating efficiency of this field staff is
constantly strained by insufficient operating funds, including inadequate
provision for transport vehicles and veterinary drugs and supplies. At
present, the staff are often unable to move from their stations due to lack
of transport, inadequate petrol or a lack of repair and maintenance facilities.
The annual budget for the national veterinary service has increased from



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Eth$ 1.5 to Eth$ 5 million over the past seven years, but this level of fund-
ing is still far from adequate to meet current needs. Operating budgets
will be further strained after 1976 when the UNDP JP-15 Rinderpest campaign
in Ethiopia is completed. At that time the campaign would have vaccinated
an estimated 20 million cattle, and made a serious contribution to the
eradication of this disease. However, unless the local veterinary service
is given sufficient manpower and funding to carry on the program, the
beneficial effects of the campaign would be totally lost within 3-5 years.
3.        In 1973, the Ministry of Agriculture issued a 20-year development
plan for the national veterinary service. Among the specific targets are:
(a) an increase in the number of field stations and diagnostic
facilities and the establishment of a field investigation
service;
(b) enlargement of the research and laboratory facilities at
Debre Zeit and Asmara with the establishment of a national
diagnostic unit, a Foot and Mouth Disease Institute and the
expansion of vaccine production capabilities;
5c) the establishment of a veterinary faculty and an expansion
of the Animal Health Assistants School at Debre Zeit;
(d) completion of the JP-15 Rinderpest control campaign as
well as the intensification of the Contagious Bovine
Pleuropneumonia survey and the start of a selective vaccina-
tion campaign against this disease; and
(e) completion of a Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis survey.
However, the successful implementation of this program will require a sig-
nificant expansion of the financial resources allocated to the veterinary
service, and in view of the large number of competing programs within the
agricultural and other sectors, it is not yet clear whether such an ambi-
tious program can be implemented.
B. Livestock Diseases
4.        Animal diseases represent one of the most important constraints to
increased livestock production in Ethiopia; the veterinary services provided
under the Project would therefore to a large extent be concerned with the
prevention and control of the major animal diseases, as well as the training
of the nomadic livestock owners in improved animal health practices. The
animal diseases now prevalent in the three sub-project areas are listed below:



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Cattle
(a) Rinderpest. In recent years, some 2.5% of the national herd
has been affected annually by this disease. The Africa-wide
JP-15 Joint Campaign for the eradication of rinderpest by a
series of compulsory but free vaccinations is progressing
and can be expected to cause a reduction in mortality rates.
The program has already been completed in Sidamo and
Jijigga Provinces, and is currently underway in the Northeast
Rangelands area.
(b) Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP) is widespread and its
incidence continues to be aggravated by the movement of live-
stock without veterinary control. To the extent that vaccine
is available, vaccinations against CBPP are being given with
those for rinderpest during the JP-15 program, and this will
help control the disease.
(c) Foot and Mouth Disease is endemic to Ethiopia and types A, 0
and C have been identified. Mortality from this disease is
limited to non-immune young stock, but considerable production
losses and some abortions must be assumed. Typing and
experimental vaccine production is undertaken by the Debre Zeit
Laboratory, and a Foot and Mouth Disease Institute has been
commissioned for production on a larger scale. Due to the cost
involved, routine vaccination of cattle is now limited to high
grade dairy stock and stock entering certain meat factories,
and under the Project would be limited to animals moving into
backgrounding and fattening operations and stockroutes.
(d) Buccellosis has been investigated in the Southern Rangelands
area, and tests have been positive in 20% of the animals
examined. Indications are that the disease is not common in
the other two Project areas, and any breeding cattle moved out
of the Southern Rangelands should consequently be examined.
(e) Trypanosomiasis appears to be a special problem in the Southern
Rangelands area. In times of drought livestock owners, well
aware of the problem, have had to bring their cattle to the
river valleys where they have become infected. Surveys of the
affected areas bordering on the Project have been undertaken
and the Project veterinary service should therefore be alerted
to the problem.
(f) Endo- and Ectoparasites are widespread in all areas, but thus
far East Coast Fever has not been identified. Heavy infestations
can best be limited by treatment carried out by the livestock
owner himself, with advice from the veterinary scouts and with
the Project veterinary service providing the necessary drugs
and chemicals for sale to him.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(g) Anthrax, Blackwater, Haemorrhagic Septicaemia are present
and sporadically cause locally severe losses.
(h) Internal parasites are a major cause of poor productivity
throughout the country. Eighty to ninety percent of all
livers at slaughterhouses are contaminated; probably 25%
of the national herd carries beef measles (with some 2% of
commercial slaughterings being totally condemned), and the
incidence of round worns is widespread. Campaigns by the
Veterinary Department to encourage farmers to treat their
cattle with available low cost drugs are unsuccessful be-
cause of the limited field service and inadequate distribu-
tion outlets for the drugs.
(i) Skin diseases. There are a variety of the common skin diesease
in Ethiopia contributing to reductions in the value of hides.
Sheep and Goats
(a) Tick-bone Diseases such as Babesiosis and Nairobi-Disease
have been identified in Jijigga and the Northeast Rangelands
and present a serious problem, with death losses rising to
about 70% of affected animals. Since individual treatment
cannot be considered under range conditions, the rational
approach is hand-dressing, spraying and dipping of the animals;
this is best carried out by the livestock owners themselves
assisted by the veterinary scouts with supplies of chemicals
sold by the veterinary service. Where large numbers of sheep
and goats move at the same time, collective dipping would be
organized (using mobile dip baths) by the district animal
health assistant.
(b) Haemorrhagic Septicaemia has been identified and a vaccine is
in production and may be effective in herds with a frequent
occurrent of outbreaks.
(c) Internal Parasites are a major contributor to poor production
levels with liver fluke being particularly serious in
certain areas (not including the Jijigga area). Nasal worms
are also a problem in some areas.
(d) Lameness. Continuous night paddocking in contaminated ground
perpetuates foot-rot and contributes to poor weight gains.
(e) Predators. Jackals and hyenas are serious problems in many
areas.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Camels
(a)  Trypanosomiasis is by far the most serious diesease affecting
camels in the Project area. The effects of this disease are well
recognized by the nomads, who buy the drugs necessary to treat
their animals at very high costs; the drugs are, however, often
of low quality due to adulteration.
C. Project Veterinary Services
Expansion of the Laboratory at Debre Zeit
5.        Over the next five years it will be necessary to increase the
vaccine production capacity of the laboratory at Debre Zeit from the present
level of 30 million doses annually to 48 million doses; in addition to this
about 15 million doses of Foot and Mouth vaccine will be required. It is
also evident that a Central Diagnostic Unit is urgently needed. Government
has thus far allocated Eth$200,000 for the construction of a Foot and Mouth
Vaccine Institute, and is prepared to greatly increase (by about four times)
the annual budget for the Debre Zeit laboratory. French bilateral aid has
already provided the necessary equipment for both the FMD Vaccine Institute
and the Diagnostic Institute (valued at about Eth$500,000). Government has
requested that financing be included under the Project for the building for
the Diagnostic Institute; this would enable Government to concentrate its
available resources on the production of additional vaccine. In view of the
importance of assuring an adequate supply of vaccines to the Project, it
would be advisable for the Project to include assistance for the expansion
of the Debre Zeit facilities. Consequently, a sum of Eth$800,000 was included
under the Project for construction of the diagnostic laboratory at Debre Zeit.
This provision has been included under the capital costs of LMB Headquarters
Staff and one third of the cost attributed to each sub-project (Annex 15,
Tables 19, 38 and 59).
Project Veterinary Field Services
6.        A comprehensive Project veterinary service would be established
in each of the three sub-project areas in order to help to reduce livestock
losses attributable to disease and to improve the condition of those animals
marketed from the ranges. One of the most important functions of this
service, however, would be to develop the interest and capability on the part
of the livestock owners themselves to institute both better disease control
and improved livestock management practices. The veterinary staff at the
lower levels would also provide extension services aimed at introducing
range use controls adapted to the traditions and needs of the various tribal
units involved. The staff would be organized in such a way to best ensure
the active cooperation and participation of the tribal leaders and the stock-
owners.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
7.        The veterinary field staff in each sub-project area would consist
of a Senior Veterinarian, assisted by a Junior Veterinary Officer, Animal
Health Assistants, vaccinators and veterinary scouts. Thee Animal Health
Assistants would be located at field stations scattered throughout the Project
area, and would supervise the activities of the vaccinators and veterinary
scouts. The field stations would ensure that the veterinary staff had
sufficient mobility and supplies to adequately monitor their immediate
territory; the staff would identify outbreaks of disease, set up both routine
and emergency vaccination campaigns and organize the collective dipping of
small stock. The field station would be equipped with a vehicle and trailer
with a radio transceiver, along with sufficient equipment and supplies (See
Table 1). The stations would be one of the most important focal points in
the implementation of the entire Project, as these would be the primary
outpost in direct contact with the stockowners.
8.        One of the most important tools in the Project veterinary program
would be the veterinary scout - a new level of staff not previously utilized
by the national veterinary service. In the past the nomads have been most
reluctant to partake of Government services of any kind, as they have been
extremely fearful that to do so would ultimately work to their own dis-
advantage. The post of veterinary scout would therefore be created as part
of a determined effort to actively involve the nomads in the development
process. These veterinary scouts would be selected from among the tribal
community they would be expected to serve, and would be given a 1-2 month
training course at the Project training centers (Annex 12). They would then
return to live and work within their respective communities, travelling
with them wherever they might go. On the average, it is expected that there
would be a ratio of 1 veterinary scout for each 400 nomadic families. Vete-
rinary scouts would be expected to carry out simple preventative treatments
(i.e. tick control, dehorning, castration, treatment of wounds, etc.) and
to give the necessary innoculations. They would receive a small subsistence
allowance plus an allowance for a camel to carry equipment. In addition
to these veterinary duties, the veterinary scout would also serve as a sort
of limited extension agent, helping to familiarize the people with the
objectives of the Project, and helping to introduce the various range mange-
ment and range control practices to be instituted by the Project. The active
participation of the nomad is essential for the success of these latter
programs, and the ability of these scouts to create a favorable climate for
their introduction will be crucial. Veterinary scouts would be supervised
by a vaccinator located at a field station who would keep him supplied with
the necessary drugs and chemicals for sale to stockowners.
9.        The details of the specific veterinary services to be provided in
each of the three sub-project areas are given below.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Southern Rangelands (Annex 15, Tables 3 and 4)
10.       A veterinary extension service consisting of two veterinarians,
9 Animal Health Assistants (AHA), 9 vaccinators and 140 veterinary scouts
would be established throughout the range area. The Senior Veterinarian in
charge of the Veterinary Department would be located at Yabello. Permanent
field stations would be established at five locations - Teltalle, Dolo, Mega,
Moyale and Wachillo. Each of the veterinarians would be assisted by a single
AHA and two vaccinators, and one AHA and one vaccinator would be posted to
each of the five field stations. A diagnostic unit would be set up at Yabello
under the direction of an AHA, and another AHA would be posted to an existing
diagnostic unit at Neghelli.
Jijigga (Annex 15, Tables 24 and 25)
11.       Veterinary staff would include 2 veterinarians, 7 Animal Health
Assistants, 8 vaccinators and 100 veterinary scouts. A central veterinary
station would be set up at Jijigga complete with a diagnostic unit, and
field stations would be established at five locations throughout the
Project area. These field stations would be equipped with mobile sheep dips,
hand sprays, scales, drugs and other equipment. One AHA would be stationed
in each of five field stations, and 2 at Jijigga - including one in charge
of the diagnostic unit. In addition to the above, four cattle dips would
be established at various locations including Jijigga as a pilot operation
to test their effectiveness.
Northeast Rangelands (Annex 15, Tables 43 amd 44)
12.       The veterinary extension service would be under the direction of a
Senior Veterinarian stationed at headquarters in Alomata. Additional staff
would include a Junior Veterinarian, 4 Animal Health Assistants (AHA), 8 vac-
cinators, and 60 veterinary scouts. Four field stations, each under an AHA,
would be established at selected Project Development Centers (PDC's) throughout
the Project area. Smaller substations, each headed by a vaccinator, would be
set up at the remaining four PDC's. These field stations would be equipped
with large stores of veterinary supplies, mobile dips, spray facilities,
crushes, etc.
July 22, 1975



ANNEX4
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
NOMADIC RANGEIA.NU ]DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Veterinaxry Equipment
I. Issue of Basic Equipment
Field Station Set:        1 refrigerator w/box
2 gas cylinders
2 ice boxes (metal)
2 steel flasks
5 ear punches
2 cash boxes w/chain
1 yard and crush, portable, for small stock
1 dip, portable, for small stock
1 set of handtools for setting up and repairs
5 200-liter barrels
1 set cupboards, shelving and furniture
2 handspray-pumps for camels
Vaccinator Set:           2 boxes for transporting equipnent
1 transistor radio
4 dosing guns
5 dehorning irons
2 castrators, Burdizzo, large
1 same, medium
3 buckets
1 panga
1 slide box
1,000 faeces sampling containers
5 lOcc syringes, heavy duty
2 jerry cans
2 20cc syringes, heavy duty, for predator control
2 rat toothed forceps
1 stell thermos flask
1 three-legged pot stand w/pots
1 pair of scissors
2 scalpel handles w/ exchangeable blades
100 t:ick bottles
1 set halters and casting rope
1 cash box
1 hand spraying pump
2 set hoof knives
Animal Health Assistant Set: 1 set as per vaccinator
3 large basins
4 pairs of overalls
2 pairs of rubber boots
1 hand saw
6 measuring vessels



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 2
12 specimen jars
1 equipment box
1 water filter
1 nose restrainer
1 phonendoscope
Veterinary Scout Set:    2 boxes to carry equipment
1 transistor radio
1 dosing gun
1 bucket
1 panga
2 syringes w/supply of needles, 10cc
1 syringe 20cc for predator control
1 jerry can
1 three-legged pot stand w/pots
1 pair scissors
1 casting rope
1 hand spraying pump
II.     ul    uirment for Veterinary Disposables
Field Station:             1 gas cylinder for refrigerator
Vaccinator:                1 tin of grease
4 doz. hypodermic needles
1 syringe, washers and accessories
5 glass barrels for same
1 report book
5 thermometers
200 cc of Methanol
2 boxes of scalpel blades
20 liters of disinfectant chemical, concentrate
5 liters of formalin 10%
1 liter surgical spirit
20 pounds of cotton wool
1 box of slides
24 batteries for transistor radio
Animal Health Assistant:  1 set as per vaccinator
1 pack of gloves
1 liter of preservative for tissues
5 report books



ANNEX 4
Table 1
Page 3
Veterinary Scout:         1 tin of grease
4 doz. hypoderuic needles
1 syringe washers and accessories
5 barrels for same
5 thermometers
10 liter disinfectant
10 pounds of cotton wool
24 batteries for transistor radio



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Development
A. General Ethiopian Background
1.        In many parts of the Ethiopian rangelands a lack of well-distributed
and adequate water supplies is one of the most important factors in determining
annual and seasonal patterns of human and livestock movement. The availability
of water and sufficient grazing in proximity to it are crucial to the survival
of the pastoralist people, and consequently disputes over water supplies are
frequent. and fierce. Long watering intervals of up to three days in the case
of cattle, and more in the case of smaller stock and camels are common in many
range areas of Ethiopia. However, in spite of this, in the dry season the
labor requirements necessary to lift and distribute water to livestock may be
very high and may effectively limit the livestock/human population ratio.
2.        The Ethiopian Government with the assistance of various international
agencies has made various attempts in the past to develop the water resources
of the rangeland areas. In southern Ethiopia about twenty stockponds were
constructed and a further twenty stockponds and six boreholes have more recent-
ly been developed as part of the Yabello Pilot Project. In the Jijigga area,
boreholes have been sunk in at least seventeen different places, and others
are still being developed. Experience with these programs has been mixed.
In some cases too little attention was paid to the possible effects of addi-
tional water supplies on the balance between livestock and feed resources,
while in other cases apparently insufficient consultation took place with local
people prior to the development; as a consequence the new water supplies were
either not used or quickly became unserviceable. In the case of the boreholes,
often either insufficient attention was given to the question of servicing
them, or the arrangements made broke down.
3.        In the past, responsibility for water development in the range
areas has been dispersed among a number of Government agencies. Since 1971
prime responsibility has rested with the Water Resources Commission, and its
Executive Agency, although geological surveys and investigations are still the
responsibility of the Ministry of Mines. The Executive Agency of the Water
Resources Commission is being strengthened, but it will be some time before it
is able to meet the large number of demands for water development services.
4.        Construction of water facilities (stockponds, dams, boreholes etc.)
is limited by the equipment and expertise that exist in Ethiopia. The Ministry
of Agriculture has some earth-moving machinery at Yabello in the Southern
Rangelands area; the Executive Agency of the Water Resources Commission has a
number of drilling rigs also in that area, but these are mostly old and in



ANNEX 5
Page 2
poor condition, and drilling speeds are very slow. Some private drilling
companies are currently operating in Ethiopia, but their number and efficiency
fluctuate. Drilling costs recently quoted by private companies have been
very high in relation to costs in other countries (e.g. Kenya).
B. The Project
I. Southern Rangelands
5.        A shortage of water is the most important limiting factor in the
development of the Southern Rangelands area. There are in all about 600
existing water points of various sizes (mostly wells), but most of these
are of use only for short periods and can handle only a certain number of
stock. Some limited development of this area is now underway. A number of
ponds have been constructed as part of the Yabello Pilot Project, and Govern-
ment has recently signed a water development agreement with USAID which calls
for the colstruction of 10 stock ponds of 20,000 m3 and 30 smaller stock ponds
of 6,000 m  (dug-out capacity); the first of these facilities are already under
construction.
6.        This development would be significantly expanded over the Project
period. It was estimated that in addition to the ponds already under con-
struction by USAID - 15 large stock ponds (20,000 m3) and 220 smaller ponds
(16,000 m3) would be required to ensure more efficient use of the available
grazing areas. The larger ponds hold water throughout the dry season and
are important in opening up new areas for dry weather grazing. The smaller
ponds hold sufficient water to prolong the wet weather grazing for one or
two months into the dry season before the stock must move on; these ponds
are grouped around the larger ones in an approximate ratio of 10:1 to facili-
tate grazing control. The development program would have to be closely
integrated with the range management program in order to prevent over-grazing
of hitherto protected areas; a further safeguard would exist by virtue of the
fact that the number of water points being provided is only about one-third
the number required for full development.
7.        An estimate of the costs involved in the Southern Rangelands water
development construction program is given in Table 1. These include
only recurrent costs, as it is estimated that the Government equipment al-
ready being utilized by USAID in their on-going program would be sufficient
to carry out the remaining construction. A list of this equipment is given
below:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
1   Low Boy w/ Trailer
1   Supply Truck
6    4x4 Wheel Drive Land Rovers
6    4x4 Jeeps
3    3/4 t. Trucks
1    4 t. Truck
1    REO Truck
1    Bulldozer D8H
8    Bulldozer D7E
2    435F Scraper
2    LE-T Scraper
1   Loader
2\   12F Grader
As the current program would be completed by year 2 of the Project, the
additional development required by the Project would be carried out in
years 2 through 5. It is expected that the followina local staff (now
employed by USAID) would be employed by the Project:
1   Agricultural Engineer
1    Secretary
1    Storekeeper
1    Camp Manager
8    Heavy Equipment Operators
6    Drivers
3    Surveyors
1   Welder
1    Electrician
3    Junior Mechanics
2    Guards
3    Cooks
2    Accountants/Secretaries
II. Jijigga
8.        During the rains there is generally sufficient water to allow
livestock easy access to whatever grazing is available. During the inter-
mediate period, however, there are times when water is scarce in areas
which offer plentiful grazing; this is mainly due to the fact that the earth
tanks and depressions are porous and do not hold water for long once the
rain stops. However, the introduction of impermeable berekedus (water tanks)
which will hold water for two or three months after the last rainfall is
rapidly changing this situation. The introduction of berekedus has been
particularly important in the eastern edge of the Project area, where other
sources of water are most difficult and relatively expensive to obtain.
9.        A general outline of the existing water sources in the Jijigga
area is given below. These include:



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(a) About 9 operating boreholes (many more are disused or were
abandoned as unsuccessful).
(b)  Berekedus (Birkas) - water tanks probably averaging 180 m 3
but of up to 3,000 m3 capacity. Approximately 3,500 of the
berekedus in the Project area are concrete-lined, and 3,000
are simply dug in fairly impermeable limestone. Some
berekedus hold water well into, and even throughout, the
dry season. They are (almost all) privately owned and
water is sold from them at prices ranging from Eth$2.50 per
m3 or less when water is plentiful, to Eth$15 per m3 or
more when it is scarce. Berekedus are concentrated in a
strip about 100 km long and 30 km wide, running parallel to
and along the border with Somalia, where soil conditions are
favorable for the fairly simple technology being used.
(c) Shallow wells. Watson estimated that there were more than
20,000 of these in the Project area in January 1973. However,
many of them only yield small quantities of water, and for
only part of the year. They are heavily concentrated in the
cultivated areas around Fugnanbira and east and south of
Jijigga, and along the Dakata, Faban and Gerer rivers.
Water Potential
10.       In determining the water development potential of the area, ref-
erence must be made to four physiographic units; the prospects for water
development in each area are relatively homogeneous.
Area 1.   East of the Jijigga-Dagabur road.  A flat undissected area under-
lain by thick Jessoma sandstone dipping southeast. Near the margins of the
sandstone (roughly coincident with the Jijigga-Dagabur road) penetration
into the Antalo limestone group may yield ground water and boreholes have
been sited at several points. This area's water resources, however, lie
mainly in surface catchment constructions, and construction of concrete-lined
berekedus, should be suitably protected from evaporation, favored.
Area 2.   West of the Jijigga-Dagabur road, the area is predominantly under-
lain by the Antalo limestone group (limestone with subordinate shales and
sandstones). The area is dissected by three main ephemeral rivers, the
Tug Dacata, Tug Fafan and Tug Gerer, all flowing south-southeast to the Wabe
Shebelli south of the Project area. The best opportunities for obtaining
water are probably along the major river courses.
Area 3.   North of the Babile-Jijigga road, the area is characterized by
extensive outcrops of basement complex (granites, schists, gneisses) with
relatively narrow incised drainage valleys. The headwaters of the main
southerly flowing rivers are located in this area. It is a poor source of
ground water except beneath wadi deposits where there is a recharge element.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Area 4.   North of the Jijigga-Tug Wajale road, this area has a rolling
topography of low hills and broad valleys. Small but prominent hills are
volcanic in origin, but the bulk of the area is underlain by the Antalo
limestone group, below which occurs Adigrat sandstone resting on an irregular
basement surface. Boreholes have been reasonably successful, though there
have been some water quality problems. A trial borehole is being located at
Haroresa in this area.
11.       The water facilities to be provided under the Project are detailed
in Table 2. The costs of this program are given in Annex 15, Tables 26 and
27. These facilities have been selected on the basis of a long-term water
program which has been drawn up for the Jijigga area. It would include:
(a) development water supplies in the cultivated areas to
provide water for the smallholder fattening and back-
grounding schemes (Annex 9);
(b) construction of permanent water supplies in the
major dry season grazing reserves;
(c) construction of a few additional water supplies outside
the dry season grazing reserves to protect them from
over-use in times of inadequate rainfall.
The drilling of the Project boreholes would be carried out under contract;
the wells would be constructed by the JIRDU Technical Department, which
would also be responsible for the operation and maintenance of all completed
facilities.
III. Northeast Rangelands
12.       The Northeast Rangelands Project area covers about 75,000 km  in the
Wollo and Tigre Administrative Regions. The whole area may be classified as
semi-arid with four more-or-less distinct seasons. Numerous rivers drain
into the area, some of which are perennial throughout most of their length
within the Project area, and some seasonal. The highlands to the west drain
into the Awash River Basin, the Teiru and Danakil Depressions and other
enclosed drainage basins. The Awash delta, the Teiru depression and some
minor catchment areas provide the major dry season grazing reserves. Else-
where, such as in the south of the Project area and north of the Golina
River, the grazing areas are of a very low potential with extensive moonscape
areas of lava flows and volcanic ash. Thus, unlike the Jijigga and the Southern
Rangelands areas, there are virtually no areas capable of improvement by the
provision of water for stock. The very dry desert volcanic areas can only be
used during the rains when pools are available. The dry weather grazing must
thus depend on restricted grazing areas which by their nature have water
available all year round. In those areas where there is sufficient grazing,
the current water availability is adequate to meet the needs of the livestock



ANNEX 5
Page 6
normally located there. The Government Water Development Authority is,
however, instituting a tube well boring program to provide water for human
consumption.
Control over Construction and Use of Water Supplies
13.       In many areas (for example, Jijigga) the introduction of addi-
tional permanent water supplies is threatening to destroy grazing areas
which were hitherto exposed to only seasonal pressure. Thus it has been
demonstrated that the unregulated introduction of water facilities can,
where it is not accompanied by concurrent restrictions on the numbers of
animals entitled to use them, have a serious long-term detrimental effect
on the overall condition of the range. While the range management programs
being instituted under the Project are expected to help alleviate the pres-
sure on available feed and water resources, the program cannot hope to
succeed if the provision of water in any given area is not tightly controlled
by the Project authority. Consequently, the National Water Resources Commission
has agreed that once the Project Units (SORDU, JIRDU and NERDU) are established,
they would be appointed by Government as the water authority in each of the
three areas; they would thus have the power to regulate and license existing
privately owned water facilities and to control the development of any new
facilities.
July 22, 1975



ANNEX 5
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Water Development Program
1.        The Project would continue the Southern Rangelands water develop-
ment program started by USAID; these activities would begin in year 2 and
would extend over a four year period. The program would provide for the
construction of 15 additional large stock ponds of 20,000 m3 and 220 small
stock ponds of 6,000 m3 dug-out capacity. The required equipment would be
made available at the completion of the USAID program at the end of year 1.
As this equipment is estimated to have an additional four years of useful
life, no additional capital investments would be required. Project costs
for the water development program would therefore include only recurrent
costs, which would cover the running and maintenance of equipment and
transport and salaries of staff. These have been estimated at Eth $ 1.42 per m3
dug-out capacity.
2.        Total Project cost would be:
15 stock ponds at 20,000 m3    =       300,000 m3
220 stock ponds at 6,000 mi3    =    1,320,000 m3
Total                         1,620,000 m3
Giving a total cost of:
1,620,000 m3 x Eth $ 1.42       =    Eth $ 2,300,000



ANNEX 5
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
RANGEIAND6 EVELOFffENT FROJECT
Jijigga
NKiber, ME2,  wrPose. Location and Beneficiarierofp sed
Water Developments
Tribal Group
Number and Type of          Parpose of New     Location of New        Primarily
New Water Points           Water Pbint         Water Point          Concerned
1. Equipment & operation    To improve water                          Graziers on Crop
of trial borehole at     supply to Area 4        Haroressa         Residues
Haroressa
2.  100 shallow wells       Water supply near      Around Fafan          Bursuk
farms of small        bridge, Bombas,
farmers involved      Gursum, Babile
in stocker feeder     (in or near
program               sand rivers)
3.  1 borehole              Dry-season water-      Harshin            Habar Awul
1 borehole              ing of stock in        Haud               lidagalla
2 shallow wells         rangelands 1/          Lower Gerer R.    Abaskil
Rer Ali
5 shallow wells                                Lower Fafan R.    Malingur
4 shallow wells                                Lower Dakata R.  Malingur
4.  1 borehole              Reliable water         10 km east of         Abaskul
points for dry        Gabre Baia
1 borehole              weather grazing        60 km south of
Gabre Baia and
10 km east of
main road             Habar Awul
I/  Subject to obtaining agreement, on dry season grazing reserves.  The two
boreholes at Harshin and in the Haud may be substituted by a series of
berekedus if the results of test drilling at Harshin are unsatisfactory.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Irrigation by Water Spreading
A. General
1.        There are no accurate estimates of the present extent of irrigated
agriculture in Ethiopia, but the total net area irrigated annually probably
lies between 200,000 and 300,000 hectares; commercial agriculture (defined
here as covering farms in excess of 10 ha) accounts for between 50,000 and
100,000 hectares, and peasant agriculture for the balance. The main crops
grown by the commercial farmers are sugar, cotton and fruit. Peasant farmers
grow mainly cereals, but also some other food crops and cotton. The Awash
River Basin, south of the Project area, is the site of the most extensive area
of large-scale commercial irrigation in Ethiopia. No irrigated development
has taken place within the Project area itself with the exception of simple
water spreading programs now being successfully developed as part of the
Northeast Rangelands sub-project of an IDA-financed Drought Rehabilitation
Project started in 1974. The most fully developed of these (at Weranzo, see
Map) operated on a limited scale in 1974, and successfully established experi-
mental crops of cotton, maize, sorghum and pigeon peas.
The Project Area
2.        The Project area, although itself an area of low rainfall, lies at
the bottom of an escarpment to the east of and below a narrow strip of east-
ward sloping steep land, the western edge of which rises to altitudes of 2,500
to 4,000 meters: this strip of land has a mean annual rainfall of between
1,000 and 1,400 mm in the south to 700-900 mm in the north, and forms a catch-
ment area four hundred kilometers long and ten to sixty kilometers wide, all
of which drains into the Project area. Eight malor rivers (the Borkenna,
Mille, Ua/Loggiya, Golina/Ialla, Alamata, Hair Sablette, Shiket, Adi Aro/
Berber) and their tributaries stretch back into and drain this catchment area.
Of these, the Borkenna, Mille and lalla are perennial throughout all or most
of this length within the Project area. Other rivers are seasonal, being dry
over the bulk of the year, but experiencing silt-laden flash floods some 6 to
8 times a year which might vary from 5 to more than 30 hours each. Once the
rivers leave the escarpment at the western edge of the Project area, they tend
to become so deeply incised that diversion becomes expensive. In the Awash
basin south of the Weranzo River, the land is fairly broken so that there are
only very small areas of irrigable land that can be brought under irrigation
from a single offtake point. However, the plains around the Lower Weranzo,
upper Mille, Ua and lalla rivers, and the whole area of the Teiru Depression
appear to offer very good opportunities for commanding large areas of irriga-



ANNEX 6
Page 2
ble land from a single offtake point. Further north of the Teiru Depression,
no reconnaissance surveys have been carried out as yet, but the Shiket and
Kala plains appear to be areas wlhere several hundred hectares could be brought
under irrigation from single offtake points.
3.        In early 1973, Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners carried out a recon-
naissance survey of the original Northeast Rangelands project area, NERP1,
(see Map) for LMB. In late 1973, Intermediate Technology Services carried
out another short study of specific irrigation sites in NERPI. Also in 1973,
Peter Manning (of LMB) completed a study on the hydrogeology of NERP1 and its
potential for irrigation.
Soils
4.        Little is known about the suitability of the soils in the Project
area for irrigation. Close to the Awash river, soil surveys have been carried
out by FAO in the early nineteen sixties and by Gibb. While large areas of
land with soil suitable for irrigation were found, other large areas with
salinity and other soil problems were also found. At two selected irrigation
sites (Weranzo and Jeldi) within the part of the Project area that lies within
the Awash catchment, two soils samples were analyzed and no salinity or other
serious soil problems were found. Soils were mainly silt with a relatively
low clay content (10% to 15%), implying a high permeability and consequently
rapid infiltration. Grass grows abundantly on some possible irrigation sites
after flooding. Along the western edge of the Project area, individual Afars,
often in partnership with non-Afars, have made spasmodic attempts to start
farming. Traditional Afar attitudes look down on cropping, but the catas-
trophe suffered by the Afar tribe over the past few years has further weakened
traditional values and made Afar society more receptive to new ways of life.
Experience in the Assayita region of the Lower Awash Valley has shown that the
Afars are both willing and capable of undertaking irrigated farming.
B. Project Investments
5.        The irrigation component: of the Northeast Rangelands sub-project
would have three elements: the development of irrigated cropping areas; the
development of water dispersion areas to be used as improved pastures by the
Afars; and feasibility studies of the Teiru Depression and the Ialla River
Scheme.
I. Irrigated Cropping
6.        The Gibbs report investigated the possibilities of irrigation and
water storage in the catchment area of the Awash Valley Authority's (AVA) zone
of activities and in the associated highland areas. The rePort found that irri-
gated development such as the water spreading program proposed under the Project
would not affect the supply of irrigation water to the AVA. Under the Project
some 2,000 ha of irrigated crops would be developed through water spreading.
This would be done by constructing barriers 3-4 meters high of wire-mesh stone-
filled gabions or baskets around 4 x 3 x 2 meters. These would be placed across



ANNEX 6
Page 3
flash flood river beds. Simple diversion canals would be dug by hand to divert
impounded flood waters onto nearby level areas. Cropping areas would be divided
by 1.0 meter high earth bunds. The crest of silt-laden flood waters descending
the rivers from the high rainfall catchments in the highlands would pass over
the gabion barriers, but the following, less turbulent, flood waters would
fill successive bunded fields to a depth of a meter until the flood subsidies.
Crops are planted on seed beds after the flood water is absorbed. The crops
are subsequently reflooded as and when further floods appear.
7.        The Project would provide funds for (see Annex 15, Tables 45 and
46):
(a) wages for the Afars for earth moving and weir construction;
(b) salaries of engineers, surveyors and supervisory staff;
(c) a small amount of earth moving machinery to supplement the
intensive hand labor and necessary transport;
(d) equipment such as tools, wire mesh gabions and water pumps;
(e) loan funds for farmers to purchase seeds, fertilizer and
tools.
8.        This type of flood irrigation is erratic both in time and quantity
but crops such as maize, sorghum, pigeon peas, beans, sweet potatoes, fodder
crops and grasses show good promise. Yields will be variable with occasional
failures due to lack of floods. Consequently, yield estimates are conservative
(see para 18).
9.        Detailed plans and designs for these water spreading schemes are
not necessary, as no concrete or other permanent structures are involved.
The Irrigation Engineer would survey possible sites, prepare surveyed plans
with his survey team and produce necessary drawings, showing canal and field
sites and the placing of the stone gabion diversion walls. Experience in the
Aden area has shown that attempts to establish more permanent concrete weirs
and supply canals have little chance of success, as shifts in river beds and
occasional very large floods render them useless. The more simple gabion
weir and earth canal can, however, be repaired easily by the farmers themselves
once experience has been gained.
Development of the Irrigation Program
10.       The Project development program would be divided into two phases.
The first two years of the Project period would be devoted to completing the
1,000 ha water spreading program initiated as part of the Northeast Rangelands
component of the IBRD Drought Rehabilitation Project. At the same time, how-
ever, preliminary site selection and planning for the sites to be developed
under financing provided by the proposed Project would take place. The actual
sites can be determined only after the detailed site surveys are carried out,
but 10 sites suitable for surveying have already been identified.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
List of Possible Irrigation Sites
Place
Weranzo              LMB F-F-W site       100        Flood Plain
Geldi                Just south of Bati-
Mille road      100       Flood Plain
Gheleka              35 kms south of
Bati-Mille road    35        Rangelands
Mille                Near Chiffra         570        Flood Flats and
Adjacent Rangelands
Mile                 Near Chiffra       1,370        Rangelands
Ua                   Diversion Area       280        Rangelands
Ialla                116 kms north of
Bati-Mille road   250        Flood Flats
Ialla                West edge of plain  810        Rangelands
Golina               West edge of plain  750         Rangelands
Teiru
Depression                            Very Large   Rangelands
11.       Once the actual irrigation sites have been identified, negotiations
would be opened with the tribal authorities within whose traditional grazing
areas the sites are located. 1/ These negotiations would determine:
(a) which individuals within the tribes would be allocated 1 ha
plots for cropping; and
(b) which individuals (or clans) would have access to the water
dispersion areas (para 19)
Traditional tribal methods of communal ownership of irrigated land holdings
developed by the Afars in the Awash would be encouraged. This is a system
whereby the individual farmer of a given plot is actually the appointee of the
tribal group; a "malak" is appointed by the group who would organize irriga-
tion rotation, ensure that essential maintenance work on the canals is carried
out, issue seeds and fertilizers and referee disputes. Any profits derived
by an individual farmer would be shared in an agreed upon ratio by the tribe
as a whole.
12.       During year 3 of the Project, work would begin on the sites previous-
ly identified (para 10). The Design Engineer would be responsible for survey-
ing the areas and carrying out soil tests. The construction of the irrigation
sites would be the responsibility of the Irrigation Engineer; he would be
assisted by paid labor recruited from among the eventual land users. Although
individual sites would range in size from 5 to 500 ha, the average site would
1/   A sociological study to be carried out in the first year of the Project
(See Annex 13) would identify not only the holding clans but also the
seasonal transhumant graziers.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
be about 100 ha. Each 100 ha site would take one year to develop from iden-
tification to completion of construction; 1-1/2 months would be allowed for
survey and design work (carried out by a Design Engineer and 2 Surveyors) and
2 to 3 months allowed for negotiations. The Irrigation Engineer would lay out
the sites and supervise work for the first six months of the construction
period, and he would then hand over responsibility to a supervisor for the
remaining 2 months. A tentative development program for the five year Project
period is given below:
Irrigation Program
Year      1          2         3          4          5    Total
Ha        -          200       600        600        600  2,000
Sites     0            2         6          6          6     20
Work Requirement of Model 100 ha Irrigation Site
13.       The work requirements of a model 100 ha irrigation site are shown
below:
Work                      m               man days
Clearing site                                            100
Stone collection                                      15,000
Miscellaneous                                          4,500
19,600
Earthworks on excavation          14,600
Earthworks on bunding land
each 500 m3/ha                 50,000
64,600
These have been determined on the basis of experience at Weranzo rather than
by strictly mathematical calculations. At Weranzo, 4,600 m3 of earth was
shifted by hand and 17,300 man days of labor were employed on other work
during platform, main channel and weir construction. Another 4,755 m3 of
earth was shifted by machinery during main and lateral canal construction
and 8,460 m3 was moved in bundin8 up 7 hectares (4 ha of cross bunds) into
0.10-0.16 ha plots (i.e. 1,208 mi per ha). In the two-year Project program,
provision has been made for purchasing and operating one machinery unit
consisting of 2 D4 caterpillar bulldozers, a water pump, a 5,000 liter water
truck and a tractor.  This machinery would last the period of the development
phase of the Project 1/.  Estimates of the total manpower, equipment and
vehicles required by the Project are given in Table 1.
1/   Assumed life of bulldozer                                 = 10,000 hrs.
Assumed hours/day
(allowing for breakdowns)                            = 6.5
Assumed days/year
(allowing for movement and time unable to work)    = 325
Therefore life of bulldozer                                 4.7 years
Capacity per year at 12 m3/hour                           = 25,350 m3/year



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Maintenance and Extension
14.       Once constructed, the irrigation sites would be the responsibility
of the land users, who, through the organization of their "malak", would
maintain their own sites. However, in the case of major damage, through
flood for example, the "malak" can call on the services of the Project Irriga-
tion Engineer, who would inspect the damage and would be able to give free
technical assistance. Any materials or manpower required would be provided
by the farmers, or against payment. During the rest of his time, the Irriga-
tion Engineer would advise "malaks" on water distribution and site maintenance.
Crop Production
15.       After construction is completed, the farmers selected to crop the
individual 1 ha plots would be employed by the Project for the first cropping
season; during that time they would receive training in crop husbandry from
Project extension agents. Agricultural inputs including seed, insecticides
and sacking would be provided on credit to each farmer. An estimate of the
cost of these inputs is given below:
Agricultural Inputs Provided to Each Farmer on Credit
Item                            Replacement        Cost
Eth$
Cotton seed 21.7 kg (0.7 ha each 31 kg/ha)
each Eth$ 0.37 per kg                                1 year           8.03
Insecticide 3 sprays each total cost of
Eth$ 21.25 per ha                                    1 year          14.88
Maize seed 11.7 kg (0.2 ha each 58.5 kg/ha)
each 15 cents/kg                                     1 year           1.75
Groundnut seed 18 kg (0.1 ha each 80 kg/ha)
each Eth$ 0.50 per kg                                1 year           4.00
Sacking each Eth$ 1.50                                 3 years         45.00
16.       Cotton.  Cotton is likely to remain the most profitable cash crop
that can be grown under water spreading irrigation, due both to its compara-
tive adaptability and the experience which has already been gained with it by
Afars in the Awash Valley irrigation areas. The date of planting in the
Project area would be determined by the occurrence of the first flood in
July or August. The seed bed would be prepared by ploughing twice by oxen
following the pre-planting irrigation, and planted by hand immediately to
avoid drying out. Two hand weedings and two inter-row cultivations using oxen
would be recommended to the farmers. Pests, notably American, Pink and Spiny
Bollworm, are the most serious threats to cotton in the lower Awash, with
aphids, jassids and whiteflies also important. Provision would be made in
the Project to provide funds for sprays and chemicals to assist in their
control.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
17.       Food Crops.  The exact mix of food crops to be grown by each family
would vary somewhat according to individual preferences, although the average
mix would be much the same. In spite of the strong comparative advantage to
be gained from production of cotton, the Afar farmers - like most peasant
smallholders - show a strong propensity to first ensure their own subsistence
requirements and only then to give attention to cash crops.
Farmers Production and Benefits
18.       Each farmer would determine his own cropping pattern, but a farm
model utilizing cotton is given below for illustrative purposes:
Labor Require-    Yield    Price - Gross Income Costs  Net
Hectares ments (man-days) (kg/ha) (Eth$/kg)    :Eth$)   (Eth$) Income
(Eth$)
Cotton         0.7         97           600         0.70        294       23
Sorghum/maize 0.2          11           600         0.20         24        2
Groundnut s/
pigeon peas  0.1           9           400         0.26         10        4
Seeds, mis-
cellaneous
tools and
oxen equip-
ment           -          -             -           -            -       45
1.0                                              330       75    255
/1   These market prices are for the three crops listed below and can be
compared with border parity prices of:
Eth$/kg
cotton       .52
maize        .15
groundnuts  .26
The estimated net income of Eth$255 includes the value of subsistence crops
but not value of subsistence from the farmers' own stock.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
II. Dispersion Areas
19.       Associated with each irrigation site would be a dispersion area
where any diverted water surplus to requirements in the basins would be
directed. Each 100 ha irrigation site would have a 50 ha dispersion area,
with contour ditching to encourage seepage; this area would be developed as
improved pasture. The local indigenous star grass (Cyondon spp.,) would
initially be established by planting runners. This grass can stand a measure
of maltreatment, has considerable powers of recuperation, and planting material
for vegetative propagation is locally available. While this pasture is in
production it is expected to support 10 livestock units per ha (i.e., 500 l.u.
per irrigation site for a minimum of four months); control of grazing on this
area would be the responsibility of the "malak". While most of the livestock
utilizing this area would be selected from among the traditional pastoralist
herds, it is also anticipated that some sheep would be fattened in this area
using the surplus water dispersion areas as part of the smallholder fattening
program. These fattening trials would be supervised by the extension agents.
III. Feasibility Studies
20.       Under the Project feasibility studies would be carried out to deter-
mine the optimum potential utilization of the Teiru Depression and of the
Ialla River Scheme.
21.       The Teiru (Barantu) Depression is a vast enclosed drainage basin
of about 10,000 km2 which floods during the wet season. This site was iden-
tified during Project preparation as a possible site for a large-scale water
spreading program. Apart from its great importance for future irrigation
development, however, the area (now that the flood plains and grasslands of
the Awash area have been developed for commetcial irrigation) is the biggest
and most constant dry season grazing reserves remaining to the Afars. The
area is essential to the survival of the Afars, and to remove such an area
from the transhumant grazing rotation would have the effect of greatly reducing
the productivity of the rest of the associated rangelands, thus jeopardizing
the herds, and therefore the lives of the pastoralists for whom it is a vital
and strategic reserve. On the other hand, to ignore such a fertile and well-
watered basin would be to ignore one of the highest potential areas of the
rangelands; such a decision would also invite indiscriminate development to
the detriment of the pastoralist economy. The Project would therefore carry
out a study to investigate the feasibility of irrigated development in the
depression for the benefit of the present land users. The feasibility study
would begin in year 2 to allow time for the collection of some hydrological
data and a review of this data in relation t,o the already available
climatological information. Should the additional information show the
resources to be inadequate, the study would be taken no further. In any case,
provision has been made for a team of consultants to undertake the feasibility
study. The team would be led by a study leader (12 months) and would include



ANNEX 6
Page 9
a sociologist (six months); a range ecologist (three months); a soil scientist
(three months); a hydrologist (three months); an agricultural economist (six
months); two irrigation engineers (six months each) to investigate storage
sites and to design the irrigation works, and two LMB surveyors (six months
each) to assist them.
22.       In addition to the Teiru study, a feasibility study would be made
of the Ialla River storage scheme (identified by Gibbs in 1973). The approach
would be the same as above, and as the two studies would be carried out as
one contract, they would use the same staff, facilities and share some
common services. Consultants' time on the Ialla River Feasibility Study
would be 36 man months.
July 20, 1975



ANNEX 6
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
RMNGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Manpower, Equipment and Vehicle Requirements
For 100 ha Site at Full Development
Unit      Requirement   Total Cost
Item                     Unit          Cost        Per Site         Eth$
Eta4
Personal
Services
Design
Engineer (1)            Man Yonths        800        1.5 months        1,200
Surveyors (2)              Man Months         450       1.5 months        1,350
Irrigation
Engineer (1)            Man Months        800          6 months        4,800
Supervisor (1)             Man Months         200         8 months        1,600
Foreman (8) or (9)          Man Day          2.50       200 days          4,500
Unskilled
labor (400)              Man Day         1.25        200 days        100,000
Ox Trainer (1)             Man Months         125         2 months           250
Interpreters (2)           Man Yaar        1,500         12 months        3,000
Subtotal                                                            116,700
Vehiclesl/
4x4 pickup (2)             Vehicle         1,100         12 months       13,200
4x4 5-ton lorry (1)            Months      1,900          6 months       11,boo
1,000 1. water-
trailer (1)                                5o          8 months          400
Subtotal                                                             25,000
Equipment
Water pump (1)              Equipslent        25          8 months           200
Camping Equip-                Months
ment (2)                                   30          8 months           480
Ox carts (10)                   11           200          6 months        1,200
Surveying set
for engineer (1)              '             40         8 rnonths         320
Surveying set
for surveyors
and supervisor (1)                       i1o           8 months          800
Handtools 2/                  Site         1,500          1               1,500
Earth sampling
equipment                 Mont::           20          8 months          160
Expendable
equipment3/                 Set         4,500          1               4,500
Expendable
supplies 4/                 Se.        14,000          1              14,000
Oxen hire (20)_/             Month            90          6 months         7,200
Subtotal                                                            33, 960
Machine Unit                    M3           3.00         5,000 m3       15,000
Total Cost per
1O0 ha site                                                          157,760
1/  Purchase costs Eth $300 and F,th $717 per mnih and rurining costs Eth $600
and Eth $900 per month respectively- for l4x4 pickup and 5-ton lorry.
2/ Non-expendable items are those that can be used again on other sites;
includes handsools, ox plougY, steel sheets, etc.
3/  Expendable items are those nct likely to be able to be used later on
other sites.  Includes baskets, snall handoci-ols, wire, etc.
4/  Includes gabion wire mesh, timber, cement, lime, plastic sheets, etc.
7/  26 days per month working.
&/  2 bulldozers, one 5,000 1. water tark, 1 tralctor, 1 water pump,
Note:  Overhead costs for a single site are:                Lh
House, Chief Irrigation Engineer (1)            50,000
House, Head of Extension (1)                    35,000
Houses, Site Extension Agent (10)               19,000
Site Buildings (20)                             38 000
20 sites - Cost per site =                       7,100
May 2, 1275



ANNEX 7
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fattening and Backgrounding Ranches
1.        One of the most important objectives of the proposed Project is to
encourage the nomadic livestock owners to restrict the numbers of their herds
to levels consistent with the carrying capacity of the ranges. The ranches
to be established in the southern rangelands area would support this objec-
tive by providing an assured outlet for surplus stock from the range areas;
they would thus represent a first step in the stratification of the Ethiopian
livestock industry. By offering an even flow of animals both for possible
fattening by the feedlot and by smallholders in the Awassa area, and for sale
on local markets, they would be able to offer higher prices to the local
cattle owners. These higher prices would provide a strong incentive for
reduced stock numbers, and would also result in a significant increase in
the cash incomes of one of the poorest segments of the Ethiopian population.
The ultimate goal of the Project is to increase offtake from the ranges from
the present level of about 6% to around 12%. The achievement of this objec-
tive will however depend not only on improved prices to the cattle owners,
but also on the development of an integrated cattle industry. The cattle
fattening operations supported by the Project would provide another link
in this overall development effort, as would the market and stockroute system
now being developed in the Project areas as part of the IDA-supported Second
Livestock Development Project.
2.        Under the Project provision would be made for the establishment of
up to four 25,000 ha "growing out" or fattening ranches on the Borana plateau
in the southern rangelands area. The ranches would be established in four
different areas, each controlled by separate tribal groups. Three of the
sites have been identified (Did Hara, Dedertu and Kajima), and agreesents of
intent signed with the authorities of the tribes having traditional grazing
rights over the ranch area. Negotiations with regard to the suggested site
of a possible fourth ranch (at Wollesa Leman) are currently underway, although
any decision to proceed with the actual development of the ranch would be
subject to the approval of the Bank. The ranches would remain the traditional
preserve of the pastoralists, although LMB would provide all the capital
improvement necessary for each ranch, and would also be solely responsible
for ranch management for a five-year period. At the end of this period (or
at some other mutually convenient time) LMB would hand over responsibility
for operation of the ranches to the pastoralists themselves. It is envisioned
that the ranches would be operated by the nomads as a cooperative society under
Ethiopian law, although the exact form of ownership would be determined at a
later date.
3.        The ranch design would be based on experience gained from similar
commercial ranches in comparable ecological zones elsewhere in East Africa



ANNEX 7
Page 2
and on the information derived from the operation of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture's pilot grazing control scheme at Yabello. A simplified rotational
grazing control scheme much like that employed at the Yabello pilot project
would be introduced; perimeter fencing with simple internal firebreaks and
night paddocks (initially protected by thorn bushes and eventually to be
fenced) would be established. In addition, those water facilities necessary
to allow the ranch to fully utilize the potential carrying capacity of the
range would be established; the water facilities would vary from a borehole
to stock ponds and small water holes. Veterinary services would be provided
by the Project veterinary service under the direction of the Senior Veterina-
rian at Yabello; these services would include regular dipping and innoculation
against the major diseases, and all cattle would be carefully checked both
on arrival at the ranch and prior to disposition. No pasture improvement
would be carried out, as experience elsewhere indicates that the incremental
returns from these activities do not justify the relatively large expenditures
involved. The ranches would be managed by trained Ethiopians under the over-
all direction of the Range Management Director.
Ranch Development
4.        Development would begin on one ranch per year for four years; the
development program has been made intentionally flexible, however, so that
the implementation schedule could be adjusted to meet changing conditions.
If it is feasible to develop all four ranches, this will be done; if on the
other hand the rate of development is slower than expected, the money allocated
for the fourth ranch would be transferred to other operations. An approxima-
tion of the expected level of both capital and operating costs is detailed in
Annex 15, Tables 5 and 6. Capital costs would necessarily vary from one
ranch to another, but they would generally represent the minimum which is
consistent with good animal husbandry practices in that area and which would
allow the ranch to develop as a viable commercial enterprise. Basic invest-
ments would include fencing, stock ponds, a borehole, access roads, tracks
and firebreaks, night enclosures, handling yards, ramps, vehicles and equip-
ment. Recurrent costs would be funded out of income and would include salaries,
vehicle running costs and maintenance.
5.        The ranches would purchase young male cattle from the pastoralists
in the surrounding area. The animals would be between 2 and 3 years of age
and would have an average liveweight of about 150 kg.  Payment for the animals
would be made in two stages.  A first payment equal to the current market
price plus a 5% bonus would be made at the time of the sale. Each animal
would spend an average of one year on the ranch with an average weight gain
of 100 kg, thus bringing the animal. to a final weight of approximately 250
kg. The animals would average a weight gain of 300 grams/day as compared
with an average gain of 150 gm/day for animals on the unimproved range. Once
the animal had reached the desired weight it would be available for sale to
the feedlot or to smallholders in the Awassa area for finishing. At the time
of disposition of the animal, the original owner would receive a second
payment reflecting the difference between the buying and the selling price
after operating expenses and a contribution to a sinking fund (to finance
debt repayments, improvement or expansion of the ranch) had been allowed for.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
6.        Given the projected carrying capacity of I LU/7 ha, the four ranches
would have an estimated throughput about 16,000 head by the end of year 5
(Table 1). About 8,000 of these animals would be sold to the feedlot, and
approximately 2,000 would be sold to smallholders in the Awassa area for
fattening on crop residues. About 1,000 additional animals would be trans-
ported to the Awassa area where they would graze on stover on land belonging
to the Awassa Agro-Industrial Share Company Farm (the farm on which the
feedlot would be located) for several weeks; at this point the animals would
be sold on the local market. Finally a limited number of other types of
animals (which the ranch would necessarily have to accept from the nomads in
order to guarantee a supply of the younger animals) would also be sold on the
local markets. The commercial feedlots are expected to show interest in pur-
chasing grown-out animals from the ranches, and they would be offered any suit-
able animals which were in excess of the requirements of the Project's feedlot.
Prices
7.        For purposes of this analysis, it has been estimated that cattle
would be purchased from local stock owners at an average price of 48 cents/kg
liveweight. Current prices for comparable animals in local markets range
between 42 and 45 cents/kg liveweight. The higher price used here reflects
the 5% bonus over current market price (para 5) plus an allowance for a
projected 1% increase in real cattle prices in Ethiopia during the period
1975-1980. From 1980-1985 prices in real terms for meat and meat products
are expected to increase by 2.4% both in Ethiopia and on the world market.
For that period and the remainder of the life of the Project, purchase prices
paid by the ranches have been estimated at 53 cents/kg liveweight. It is
likewise estimated that the average price of cattle sold from the ranches
would be about 69 cents/kg liveweight for the years 1976-1980. This price
is based on present market prices for comparable animals (which average between
60 and 66 cents/kg liveweight) and also reflects the projected real increase
in cattle prices. A price of 76 cents/kg liveweight has likewise been used
for the years 1981 and thereafter to reflect additional real price increases
expected in the future.
Benefits and Justification
8.        The ranches to be established as part of the Southern Rangelands
Project would provide a valuable demonstration of the advantages of commercial
range management and improved animal husbandry techniques. They would also
enable the stock owners to obtain substantially higher prices for their stock
than would otherwise have been the case--particularly when the second payment
is taken into account. The ranches by offering the nomads an alternative
to sale to local traders would help promote competition in the primary markets;
this would have the added benefit of making local prices more attractive
vis-a-vis prices offered across the border in Kenya, and would thus help to
reduce the outflow of cattle from the Project area. The major quantifiable
benefits from the ranches would be an increase in the offtake of young animals
from the national herd, incremental meat production due to the substantial
weight gain of the cattle on the ranches, and the higher prices accruing to
the cattle owners.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
9.        At full development (year 6), 16,000 head at an average of 250 kg
liveweight would be sold from the ranches each year. The benefits derived
from the ranches would be distributed to some 8-10,000 extended nomadic
families now living in the Project area; these people represent some of the
poorest of all Ethiopian families (certainly in the lowest 20% of all income
groups) who have until this time received virtually no development assistance
from any source whatever.
Economic Rate of Return
10.       Commercial ranches normally show a low rate of return on development
costs. However, preliminary calculations indicate that the proposed ranches
would have an economic rate of return of 17% over a twenty-year period. This
relatively high figure can be attributed to the comparatively low cost of the
purchased animals and the modest level of development to be carried out.
July 22, 1975



ANNEX 7
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVOELPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Model Fattening and Backgrounding Ranch (25,000 ha)
Throughput of Cattle
------------------- Years -------------------
1       2       3       4        5     6-20
Number Bought   2,400   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000
Less Deaths        100    160      160     160      160     160
Number Sold             2,300   3,840   3,840   3,840   3,840
Parameters
Liveweight - cattle are bought at 150 kg and sold at
250 kg after 365 days.
Average gain - 270 g/day.
Mortality - 4% annually.
April 29, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Model - Fattening and Backgrounding Ranch (25,000 ha)
Incremental Cash Flow
(Eth$)
--------------------------------  Years  ----__________________________________
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                     1            2                3              4                5                6-20
Sales                     1                                396,750          662,400        662,400          729,600          729,600
Capital Development Funds-                    890,000      160,017            -              -
Total                           890>000     556,767          662,400         662,400          729,600          729,600
USE OF FUNDS
Operating Costs                                91,200      136,017          143,217        143,217          143,217          169,000
Purchase of Steers                            172,800      288,000          288,000        288,000          318,000          318,000
Capital Costs                                 623,020         -                -               -                _                _
Total                           887,020    424,017.          431,217         431,217          461,217         487,000
Annual Cash Surplus (Deficit)                    2,980     132,750          231,1.83       231,183          268,383          242,600
Amount of Annual Cash Surplus Redistributed
to Stock Owners 2/                              -         99,562          173,387        173,387          201,287          181,950
Remaining Funds3/                            -         33,188          57,796          57,796           67,096           60,650
1/ Including working capital.
2/  75% of the annual cash surplus would be redistributed to stock owners.
3/  The remaining funds will either be used for expansion, repayment of funds to Government or for payment of taxes.                                a,
M_
July 1, 1975



ANNEX 8
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feedlot Unit
Objectives
1.        The Project would include a pilot feedlot to be established at the
Awassa Agro-Industrial Share Company (AAISC) farm. The feedlot operation
would be designed to (a) assist in the stratification of the Ethiopian live-
stock industry by providing a regular supply of high value meat for both
export and local markets; (b) provide higher prices for local producers
through the development of new market outlets for quality beef; and (c) serve
as a pilot operation to provide information on the feasibility of establishing
feedlots elsewhere in Ethiopia. In the short term, the fattening of cattle
represents one of the simplest and most efficient means of increasing national
beef production. The economic aspects of intensive beef fattening have been
examined in considerable detail over the past five years by an FAO/UNDP pro-
ject near Nakuru in Kenya, and much additional information has been generated
by several commercial feedlots now operating elsewhere in Kenya. The proposed
feedlot would draw on the experience gained from these operations, as well as
from the two small-scale commercial feedlots recently established within
Ethiopia.
2.        The main objective of the proposed feedlot would be to add value
and weight to immature cattle through an intensive feeding regime. The
guarantee of a regular supply of high quality meat would enable LMB to inves-
tigate and establish export markets (especially in the Middle East) for higher
grade chilled or processed meat, and to obtain prices over and above those
prevailing for the present live export trade. These higher prices will
eventually accrue directly to the nomadic cattle owners, as 75% of the profits
of the feedlot would be returned to them in the form of higher prices for his
cattle or as bonuses on cattle already sold. These higher prices should work
through the system to encourage a higher offtake from the range, and the
premium paid for better grade animals should help ensure a regular supply of
immatures. The feedlot would also serve as a pilot project to develop basic
information on the operation of feedlots in Ethiopia by establishing costs
and revenues and through investigations into various feeding regimes.
Implementation
3.        The AAISC farm, now owned by Government, would lease the land neces-
sary for the feedlot to the Project, and would provide a number of administra-
tive and other services to the feedlot operation. This farm now produces a
wide range of crops for sale on the local market, including maize, beans, soya
beans, sunflower and sisal. A proportion of the farm's maize output each



ANNEX 8
Page 2
season would be sold directly to the feedlot, thus guaranteeing it an assured
supply of the most important feed component. This arrangement would allow the
feedlot to be built at the minimum scale necessary to test the market potential
for the higher grade beef, as the feedlot itself would not have to absorb
either the overhead costs of crop production or a number of administrative
staff costs. The initial plan would call for a feedlot with a rated capacity
of 8,000 animals per annum - 2,660 head at any one time, each animal to be
held in the feedlot for an average of 4 months (Table 1). The feedlot could
easily be expanded at a later date to a yearly capacity of 12,000 head; such
an expansion would require little more than yard construction and would
effectively economize on the initial installation.
4.        The Project would obtain a long-term lease on approximately 12.5 ha
of land on the "reservoir" hill on Unit IV of the AAISC farm. The feedlot
manager would prepare detailed plans and specifications for the feedlot
installation (an approximate plan is set forth in the attached Chart, World
Bank 9817). AAISC would undertake construction on behalf of the Project.
Construction would be completed by the end of year 2 of the Project. Total
investment capital would be about Eth$1.1 million. The main items provided
would include: cattle yards, pit silos, fencing, a platform scale, 1/ feed
handling equipment, offices, vehicles and machinery. The capital and recurrent
costs are detailed in Annex 15, Tables 7 and 8.
5.        The cattle would be fed a mixture of maize silage, molasses, maize
grain, oil cake and minerals. (The detailed feed requirements are given in
Table 3). This feeding regime is planned around a well proven system based
on high quality forage developed in Kenya. However, the feedlot is intended
to serve as a pilot operation, and the feedlot manager would be required to
investigate the availability and suitability of other locally available feeds
and by-products; these might include, for example, bean straw, cotton seed,
sisal waste 2/ or coffee bean hulls. In addition, there seems to be a
relatively good prospect of establishing water table alfalfa on the margins of
a swamp located near the feedlot site; the alfalfa would be a valuable addition
to the ration, particularly when the cattle are being started on feed. The
use of these alternative feeds would be advisable from the point of view of
the feedlot, as the local Boran cattle have a high tolerance to a large
percentage of good quality roughage in their diet; it would also serve as
a valuable outlet for estate products which would otherwise be poorly utilized
or wasted.
1/ Appropriate designs are available in an FAO report by Bond (AGA: SF/KEN/
60/520).
2/   The use of sisal wastes now available on the AAISC farm would depend on
whether or not these can be economically processed to reduce the water
content.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Management
6.        The feedlot would be under the direction of a Feedlot Manager
responsible directly to the Southern Rangelands Development Unit (SORDU)
Project Manager. He would prepare detailed plans and specifications for the
feedlot installation, and would be responsible for its technical operations
and maintenance. The AAISC farm would provide a number of services to the
feedlot for which it would be reimbursed at rates negotiated between the
Feedlot Manager and the General Manager of the farm (see Table 4). These
services would include:
(a) Construction. AAISC would undertake construction of the
feedlot complex in accordance with the specifications provided
by the Feedlot Manager.
(b) Crop production. The company would grow forage crops in the
Unit IV fields adjacent to the feedlot.
(c) Crop harvesting. The Project would purchase specialized
forage harvesting equipment, and the company would use this
to harvest the crop and deliver it to the silo; the feedlot
would purchase these crops at a yearly price negotiated in
advance of the planting season.
(d) Administrative management. While the technical management of
the feedlot would be the responsibility of the Feedlot Manager,
the company would provide an Administrative Manager and staff
for the feedlot who would be paid for by the feedlot.
(e) Accounting and purchasing. AAISC would provide these services
on exactly similar lines as it does for its existing units.
(f) Machinery and vehicle repair. The repairs would be carried
out at the MAISC workshop as requested at an agreed commercial
scale of charges.
In order to implement these services, the AAISC would create a Feedlot
Management Unit within its Agricultural Production Department. The organiza-
tion of this unit and its relationship to the Project Feedlot Unit is illus-
trated in Chart, World Bank 9818. At a formal level the Feedlot Manager
would deal with the MAISC General Manager, but it is expected that he would
develop a productive working relationship with both the Administrative Manager
and the Manager of Unit IV (as this unit would devote a large proportion of
its efforts to producing crops for sale to the feedlot) on the many technical
matters of mutual interest.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Financial Projections
7.        The feedlot would bring forward a regular supply of cattle of a
consistently higher quality than has heretofore been available in Ethiopia.
The feedlot would produce between 150 and 180 head of cattle per week; a
large proportion of these would be slaughtered at either the Debre Zeit or
the Malgue Wondo abattoirs for sale either on the Addis market or for export
to Arab countries. The remainder would be exported live through the port
at Assab. This output would represent the equivalent of between 27 and 32
tons of carcass beef per week, or a little over 15 tons of high quality meat
cuts. It is estimated that this level of output on a guaranteed regular basis
should be sufficient to test and develop new market outlets for this quality
beef.
8.        There is considerable difficulty in forecasting the prices to be
paid for live cattle ex feedlot. The feedlot is basically a pilot operation
designed to test the feasibility of other feedlot operations in Ethiopia, and
as such it will be very much concerned with developing new markets for quality
beef; until these markets develop, it is difficult to determine how much of
a premium this beef will command over the lower quality meat now generally
sold on the Addis market. Therefore, the estimated price used for Project
purposes is based on the current price on the Addis market for high quality
beef, as this was believed to be the most accurate guide to the price which
the feedlot cattle could expect to receive in the absence of meaningful sales
of feedlot quality beef from Ethiopia. High quality Harar beef (sold mainly
for consumption on holidays and other special occasions) now commands a price
of 100 cents/kg liveweight. In the calculations for the feedlot, however,
a conservative price of 95 cents/kg liveweight was used for the period
1978-80; these estimates take into account the possible initial difficulties
of organizing the broadening market for high quality beef in Ethiopia,
as well as the difficulty of penetrating the export market for sale of beef
on Middle East markets. A tentative cash flow is given in Table 2.
Distribution of Profits
9.        The feedlot would--together with the smallholder fattening scheme-
provide a second link in the stratification of the beef cattle industry in
the southern rangelands area. It would provide further value added in the
form of both liveweight gains and quality improvement. It would also provide
a guaranteed market for cattle coming off the backgrounding ranches, and
would enable the producers to obtain significantly higher prices for their
animals. The profits from the feedlot would accrue to the nomadic producers
in much the same way as would those from the ranches (see Annex 7). Profits
would be apportioned on a 25%/75% basis between the feedlot unit (for loan
repayment, expansion or the construction of additional feedlot units) and
the nomads themselves. It is not yet completely clear how this surplus would
be channelled to the producers. One method would be to calculate the payment
in advance and to include it in the second payment to be made to the producer



ANNEX 8
Page 5
when his animal is sold off the ranch; another alternative would be to wait
until the animal was sold by the feedlot and then to pay the producer through
the ranch when he appeared with additional cattle for sale. It is estimated
that this surplus accruing to the producer from the feedlot alone could be
up to Eth$28/head.
July 22, 1975



ANNEX 8
Table 1
ETHIOPTA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands - Feedlot
Throughput of Cattle
_______________----- Years ----------------------
1        2         3        4         5       6-20
Number Bought       -        -        8,000    8,000    8,000    8,000
Less Deaths         -        -          120      120       120       120
Number Sold         -        -        5,520    7,880    7,880    7,880
Parameters
Liveweight - cattle are bought from ranches at 250 kg and
sold 120 days later at 350/kg.
Average gain - 830 g,Jday
Mortality 1.5% annually
June 25, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Feedlot Unit
Incremental Cash Flow
(Eth$)
-------------- Years                                 --
1          2          3            4               5           6-20
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Sales                               -           -        1,735,560    2,620,100    2,868,320    2,868,320
Capital Development Funds I'      560,000    840,ooo       767,000        -             -
Total                     56Q  O    840,000    2.502.560    2 620,100    2,868,320    2,868,320
USE OF FUNDS
Capital Costs                     438,200    446,000         -            -             -
Operating Costs                   115,412    389,588       946,638      923,488       923,488    1,045,930
Purchase of Steers                  -           -        1,380,000    1,380,000    1,520,000    1,520,000
Total                     553,612    835,588    2,326,638    22303,488    2,443,488    2,565,930
Annual Cash Surplus (Deficit)2/        6,388      4,412      175,922      316,612       424,832      302,390
1/ Including working capital.
2/  75% of the annual cash surplus is  expected to be redistributed to stock-owners
ana the remaining funds to the Government.                                                              I.
July 1, 1975



ANNEX 8
T a-ble 3
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Pilot Feedlot
Purchased Feed Requirements: Year 3 Onwards
ASSUMPTIONS: Oilcake will be purchased when possible from the AAISC oil
mill. As additional supplies are required they will be
purchased from mills in Nazareth, as return loads on empty
cattle transporters.
Maize Grain. The total requirement is only 4% of AAISC's
storage capacity and all undergrade maize will be purchased.
This is allowed for by a lower price ($100/ton instead of
$130/ton).
Minerals will be mixed with bonemeal and salt with added
vitamin A and trace minerals.
RATION PLAN   (DM basis)   kg   Fresh DM   Requirements for   Price/ton   Total
8,000 head
(m tons)       (Eth$)    (Eth$'000)
Silage        65%        455    1,650         13,200             -            -
Molasses      20%        140      187          1,500            69         103.5
Maize Grain    6%         42       48            384           100          38.4
Oil Cake       8%         56       61            488            90          44.O
Minerals       1%          7        7             56            50           2.8
__0g     0==0                                              188.7
FEEDING MDDEL:              Wt out         = 350 kg
Wt in          = 260 kg
Grain          =  90 kg
Daily gain    =   1.0 kg
Daily intake  =   7.77 kg (= 2,55% of liveweight)



ANNEX 8
Table 4
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Payment for Services by AAISC
Management and Staff:            Total direct employment costs, salary and
social security, to be reimbursed as a cost
+ 10%. Manager's house and use of car provided.
Accounting Charge:               Eth$20,000 p.a. during establishment period
and Eth$40,000 upon commencement of feeding.
Maize Planting & Cultivation:   AAISC to provide equipment, inputs and labor;
contract made on per hectare basis based on
average farm yield of previous year (current
year estimate Eth$680/ha).
Harvesting:                      AAISC to operate harvesting equipment belonging
to the feedlot (tractors and harvester) (estimate
for 50 ton crop is Eth$55/ha). Feedlot maintains
equipment.
Transport:                       Using feedlot tractors and AAISC tractors,
feedlot to be charged on a tractor hour basis
(estimate for 50 tons - Eth$58/ha).
Thus total payment to AAISC is Eth$793/ha for
green chop delivered to silo.
Repairs:                         For workshop repairs the feedlot would supply
any needed spare parts and would carry out
repairs at commercial rates on the basis of
job cards.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Estimated Payment in Year 3 to AAISC:
Management (Eth$68,000 + Eth$6,800)        =   74,800
Accounting                                 =   40,000
Maize Planting and Maize Harvesting        =  233,000
Transport and Repairs                      =   40,000
TOTAL                                 Eth$387 6800



APPROXIMATE DIAGRAM OF
FEEDLOT SITE (NOT TO SCALE)
Reservoir                       Tank                -                   
Molasses    SItO.S   \
Telephone    ___      ,Truck Scale                                                       .......So
Line
WkWorld Bank-9817



SOUTHERN RANGELANDS PROJECT
AWASSA AGRO-INDUSTRIAL SHARE CO.
PROJECT MANAGER                                                                            GEEA;AAE
FATTENING
DEPARTMENT                                                                 PRODUCTION MANAGER
MANAGER
STENO/SEC                      K\z                                                                                  -_
FEEDLOT                      UNIT IV                         UNIT III
MANAGER                       MANAGER                        MANAGER
DRIVER                 CLERK
SECRETARY      J
Cattle Feeding   Cattle Handling     Workshop            Transporters        Maintenance                        Office    Store
I   I    t                    I                   t                               I         t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2 Drivers        1 Veterinary  ,     1 Senior            Drivers             1 Artisan                          1 Clerk    1 Storeman
2 Laborers         Assistant           Mechanic          Assistant           1 Laborer                          1 Driver
I Recording      4 Laborers          1 Junior              Drivers           2 Drivers
Clerk                                Mechanic
World Bank-9818



ANNEX 9
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder Fattening Components
A. General Ethiopian Background
1.        The production of livestock for meat in Ethiopia is at the present
time almost totally unstratified, and with very few exceptions there are no
specialized sections of the industry dealing with breeding, rearing or fatten-
ing for market. An animal destined for final consumption as meat will usually
spend its entire life in the same area under the same ownership, management
and feeding routine. The only major exception to this rule is that the zones
of high-density cultivation tend to be importers of young male stock from
surrounding pastoral areas, or from areas of less dense cultivation. These
young males are first trained as plough oxen and subsequently sold as culls
for human consumption. Some first steps toward a stratified beef industry
are beginning to be taken, however. In Harar Province, up to 10,000 animals
yearly have a much shortened working life as plough oxen in order that they
may be fattened at the optimum time for sale as high quality meat for weddings
and festivals. One commercial feedlot has operated for a number of years
near Addis Ababa (mainly in order to produce better quality meat for Ethiopia's
foreign community) and another small feedlot has been set up near Asmara.
2.        As these first steps have been reasonably successful, it seems
appropriate at this time to enlarge the scope of this initial stratification
to include fattening of beef cattle by smallholder cattle farmers. The work
of the UNDP-supported Beef Research Station in Kenya has produced much evi-
dence on the practicability of such operations, and based on previous Ethiopian
experience, the expansion of this segment of the industry should not present
any real difficulties. However, it may be slightly more difficult to develop
an appropriate system for producing suitable feeder animals for entry into
final feedlots. Conditions on the communally-used rangelands are too harsh
for young animals to achieve growth to bring them up at the right weight and
right age for entry to feedlots. In Kenya a system has evolved of "growing
out" or "backgrounding" young animals procured from the rangelands soon after
weaning on large ranches. This system may be more difficult to establish in
Ethiopia on a sufficiently large scale because of the absence of suitably
large tracts of unoccupied land for use as ranches. In the Southern Range-
lands Area where sufficient land is available, provision has been made under
the Project for the establishment of such ranches (Annex 7). In other areas
however, a system of growing out young animals to a suitable age and weight
for entry into feedlots needs to be grafted on to the existing farming system.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
B. The Proiect
3.        Smallholder fattening schemes would be initiated in each of the
three Project areas in order to encourage stratification of the livestock
industry, to raise producer prices paid nomadic stock owners, and to provide
increased incomes for smallholder farmers in the fringe areas near the range-
lands. These programs would also increase the supply and quality of meat
available for sale both on local markets and for export. Although the basic
concept of the program in each area would be much the same, variations would
be introduced to accord with local customs and conditions.
Southern Rangelands
4.        A large number of small farmers are now located in the fringe
areas between the ranges and the highlands; these farmers cultivate mostly
subsistence crops and often keep a few head of livestock. In some instances
these farmers are also part of the pastoral society, sending their herds into
the rangelands during the wet season and allowing the nomads to graze their
livestock on the crop residues during the dry season. A number of these
farmers would be selected to participate in the smallholder fattening program
and would then be provided with either one or two suitable animals purchased
in the rangelands. The SORDU Fattening Department would purchase the animals
for resale on credit to the farmers. Each farmer would make a small cash
contribution for the purchase and fattening of each animal. Because of the
pilot nature of this program and the small size of the total credit require-
ment, it is proposed that the credit be handled directly by the Project it-
self. In the Southern Rangelands area the credit would be administered by
the SORDU Fattening Department. The existing highland small farmer extension
service (SORIDEP) would be responsible for the selection of suitable farmers,
and would also provide extension advice.
5.        The animals would be housed in simple thatched mud and wattle
buildings and tethered on grass patches and roadsides. Over a 6-9 month
period (normally beginning during the rains), the cattle would be fed sorghum
thinnings, green matter derived from weeding crops and grass. As the dry
season commenced, sorghum and maize stover would be substituted for green
matter, and this feed would be supplemented by small quantities of sorghum
grain, household food scraps, sweet potato tops and planted fodder crops.
Salt, minerals and veterinary medicines would also be provided by SORDU during
the fattening period. The animals would be purchased from the ranches (see
Annex 7, paragraph 1) at 250 kg/head, and then fattened over 210 days to an
average weight of 350 kg/head. 1/ The animals would be sold through normal
trade channels at local auctions at an estimated price of Eth$ 0.75/kg live-
weight; Project representatives would be present at the auction to collect
loan repayment. A suggested budget for a typical smallholder (Table 1) shows
a profit of approximately Eth$ 47 per animal.
1/   No data is available on daily weight gains, but final slaughter weights
of 400 to 500 kg have been achieved in some cases.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Jij igga
6.        Two types of fattening operations would be carried out in the
Jijigga area: (a) fattening and (b) backgrounding of immature cattle by
selected smallholders. Under the fattening operation animals would be used
as work oxen for two years and then in the third year they would be fattened
for resale; this program would be an extension of activities already carried
out on their own by farmers in the Jijigga area, and the Project simply would
attempt to enlarge an already successful traditional operation. A second
operation - referred to variously as a "backgrounding" or a "stocker feeder"
program - would undertake much the same task as was performed by the ranches
in the Southern Rangelands area; cattle would be fattened from 130 to 150 kg
to 250 kg, and would then be suitable for further finishing in a feedlot.
7.        The program would be administered by the JIRDU Fattening Depart-
ment. The Fattening Department would enter into contracts with suitable
traders to provide animals for the smallholder programs. The traders would
visit markets established in the area by the ongoing Livestock Marketing
Project and would purchase immature male cattle in good condition. The Proj-
ect would contract to purchase animals from these traders when delivered at
designated Minimum Package Trade Centers. The trader's margin is estimated
at about Eth$9-10/head - sufficient to cover market fees, movement costs and
other expenses; traders would use their own funds.
8.        Prior to movement from the market, the cattle would be innoculated
by the Livestock Marketing Project's staff against Rinderpest, CBPP, Anthrax,
Blackleg, and Foot and Mouth "A", "0" and "C". Before the Project purchased
the immatures from the trader, they would be weighed and checked for suitabil-
ity within the terms of the trader's contract. They would then be branded
and immediately resold on credit to the farmers; no holding ground would,
therefore, be required. Credit in this case would be provided by JIRDU.
9.        The animals would be put on a feeding regime similar to that in
the Southern Rangelands. Veterinary services would also be provided to the
smallholders through the Project Veterinary Department.  Two Animal Health
Assistants and 10 Veterinary Scouts would be detailed to these programs.
Estimated farm budgets (Tables 2 and 3) show approximate profits of Eth$67/
head and Eth$35/head for the fattening and backgrounding operations respec-
tively. It was assumed that cattle from the fattening program would be sold
at an average weight of 350 kg at an estimated price of Eth$0.76/kg liveweight.
Likewise it was assumed that cattle from the backgrounding program would be
sold at an average weight of 250 kg at a price of Eth$0.66/kg liveweight.
10.       The object of the backgrounding program is to prepare animals
for entry to a feedlot (this operation substitutes for the development of
backgrounding ranches in areas where sufficient land for such is not avail-
able). Thus far feedlots have only been introduced in a limited scale in



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Ethiopia (Sabajian at Debre Zeit and ELIDCO at Melgue Wondo) but HVA (sugar
growers) have started feedlot trials in the Awash Valley and MAESCO (banana
growers) will shortly start trials in the Middle Awash irrigation area.
Trials being carried out by the Awash Valley Authority indicate that high
returns may also be obtained from fattening livestock in irrigated pastures.
In view of the general interest indicated in the establishment of feedlots
within Ethiopia, the analysis herein assumes that feedlot outlets for Project
cattle will become available by the end of the Project period. The sales
price of Eth$0.66 is based on current prices for good quality 250 kg animals
in the Harar area, and on the price a feedlot geared toward an export market
is expected to be able to pay.
Northeast Rangelands
11.       Two types of programs would be introduced in the Northeast
Rangelands area. First, a livestock marketing program would be introduced
to stimulate the volume of marketed offtake and to reduce the irregularity
of supply that is presently a major constraint to the proper functioning of
existing markets. Eight markets recently closed by tribal hostilities would
be reopened and provided with perimeter fencing. A Project Marketing Unit
(PMU) would be responsible for the initial functioning of these markets.
Secondly, the PMU would also set up a pilot grazier scheme whereby it would
purchase young male animals, treat them for disease, and then sell them on
credit to pastoralists for feeding on the range for one year; the stockowners
would be required to resell the animals to the PMU.  Although the stockowners
would initially concentrate on cattle fattening, it is expected that sheep
would also be fattened using the surplus water dispersion areas of the
irrigation sites. It is expected that 100 pastoralists fattening an average
of 10 livestock units each would participate in the first three years of the
program; by year 5 the total throughput of the program would be about 3,000
livestock units per annum.
May 20, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Smallholder Fattening Program - Farm Budget
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6-20
No. of Stock in at 250 kg          400      800    1,200    1,6o0    2,000    2,000
Less Mortality                      16       32       48        64       80        80
No. of Stock out at 350 kg         384      768    1,152    1,536    1,920    1,920
Incremental Loan Fund (Eth $)  70,000  70,000   70,000   70,000   70,000   70,000
Smallholder Fattening Farm Budget l/
Eth$
Source of Funds
Sale of animal 350 kg @ 75                                        263
Farmers cash contribution                                           30
Loan                                                               175
468
Cash Outflow
Farm Inputs
Concentrates & minerals                              20
Purchase at      250 kg @ 69                       172
Veterinary medicines                                 10
202
Debt Service
Loan                                                175
Interest 2/ and insurance                            14
189
Total outgoings                                                  391
Cash Surplus                                                   77
of which farmer' s contribution                              - 30
Net Profit                                              47
1/ This assume purchase and sale of one animal.
2/ At 10% per annum.
Avii^a- 97  107R



ANNEX 9
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jij iga
Smallholder Fattening Program - Farm Budget
Year 1  Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5 Year 6-20
No. of Stock in at 140 kg         250    1,000      3,000      4,500    4,500  4,500
Less Mbrtality                    -         -          30        120       360    540
No. of Stock out at 350 kg        -         -         220        880    2,240  3,960
Incremental Loan Fund (Eth$)  32,500   97,500   260,000   195,000
Smallholder Fattening Farm Budget 1/
Eth$
Source of Funds                                                 273
Sale of animal 350 kg  76                                    30
Farmers cash contribution                                     130
Loan
433
Cash Outflow
Farm Inputs
Concentrates & minerals                          55
Animal Purchase at 140 kg @ 470                  66
Veterinary medicines                             30
Transport                                        10
161
Debt Service
Loan                                            130
Interest 2/ and insurance                        45
175
Total Outgoings                                       336
Cash Surplus                                        97
of which farmer's contribution                    - 30
Net Profit                                    67
1/ This assume purchase and sale of one animaL.
2/ At 10% per annum.
August 27, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table 3
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Smallholder Fattening Program- Farm Budget
Year 1    Year 2  Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Year 6-20
No. of Stock in at 1h0 kg          250    1,000     3,000      4h,500   4,500    4,500
Less Mortality                      10       40        120       180      180      180
No. of Stock out at 350 kg         240      960      2,880     4,320   4,320    4,320
Incremental Loan Fund (Eth$)  22,500   67,500   180,000   135,000        -         -
Smallholder Backgrounding Farm Btudget 1/
Source of Funds                                      Eth$
Sale of animal 250 kg @ 660                         165
Farmers cash contribution                            20
Loan                                                  90
275
Cash Outflow
Farm Inputs
Concentrates & minerals                 20
Animal Purchase at 140 kg @ 470         66
Veterinary medicines                    10
Transport                               10
Debt Service
Loan                                    90
Interest 2/ and insurance               14
Contingencies                           10
114
Total outgoings                                 220
Cash Surplus                                   55
of which farmer's contribution               - 2n
Net Profit                              35
2/ This assume purchase and sale of one animal.
2/ At 10% per annum.
August 27, 1975



ANNEX 9
Table4
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Grazier_Scheme --_Farm_Budget
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4   Year 5   Year 6-20
No. of Stock in at 140 kg          1,000    1,000      3,000      3,000    3,000      3,000
Less Mortality             1/         40        40       120        120       120       120
No. of Stock out at 240 kg-          96n       960     2,880      2,880    2,880      2,880
Incremental Loan  Fund (Eth$)  100,000        -      100,000                 -          -
2/
Famn Budget-'~-
Source of Funds                                   Eth$
Sale of animal 240 k; @ 66 (local price)    158
Looan                                           100
258
Cash Outflow
Farm_kputs
Minerals                             5
Purchase at 140 kg 0 470            66
Animal Veterinary Medicines         10
Transport and
Trader's Comnission to purchase   15
Debt Service
Loan                               100
Interest 2/and insurance            15
Contingencies                        5
120
Total outgoings                             216
Cash Surplus                              42
1/ This assumes a weight gain of 200 gm per day due to the herding over the range.
Overall average in Southern Rangelands estimated at between 150-200 gm/day.
2/ This assume purchase and sale of one animal
3/ At 10% per annum
August 27, 1975



ANNEX 10
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELAINDS DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Annual Livestock Flows
Annual Disposition
Without                  Full            through Project at
Project               Development        FU1  Development
CATTLE
Southern Rangelands --
Marketed Offtake                       90,000                   110,000       -  of which 16,OOO
sold to ranches
Jijigga -- Marketed
Offtake                                45,000                   55,000       -  of which 9,000 enter
smallholder fattening and
Northeast Rangelands --                                                          backgrounding program
Marketed Offtake                       30,000                    55,000       -  of which 3,000 enter
(4,420)1-                                grpSier schme
SHOATS
Southern Rangelands --
Marketed Offtake                       36,000                   42,000
Jijigga -- Marketed
Offtake                               116,000                  136,000
Northeast Rangelands --
Marketed Offtake                      113,000                   170,000
(5,000)11
CAMELS
Jijigga -- Marketed
Offtake                                 8,000                     9,600
Northeast Rangelands --
Marketed Offtake                       10,000                    12,000
(6,600)1/
1/  The numbers in brackets refer to Marketed Offtake estimated as of 1975; as a result of the
drought, this number is significantly lower than the estimated marketed offtake from the
static herd used here for comparison purposes.
May 14, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Backgrounding and Fattening of Cattle: Throughput
(head of cattle)
Before      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5        Total
Project                                                & thereafter   Years 1-5
A.  Offtake from the Range            90,000      90,000      90,000      90,000     95,000    100,000
(110,000
B.  Backgrounding -- Project Ranches                                                            Year 7)
Entering at 150 kgs                         2,400       6,400     10,400      14,400      16,000        49,600
Sold at 250 kgs 1/                                      2,300      6,144       9,984      13,824        32,252
C. Fattening Department
Feedlot, Awasa
Entering at 250 kgq                                                8,000       8,00U       8,000        24,000
Sold at 350 kgs 2/                                                 5,520       7,880       7,880        23,646
Smailholder Fattening
Entering at 250 kgs                           400         800       1,200      1,600       2,000         6,200
Sold at 350 kgs 3/                            384         768      1,152       1,536       1,920         5,760
Stover Grazing
Entering at 250 kgs                         1,000       1,000       1,000      1,000       1,000         5,000
Sold at 260 kgs 4/                            997         997         997        997         997         4,850
1/ The cattle will spend one year on the ranches and gain 100 kgs. Mortality will be 4%.
From the ranches the cattle will go to the feedlot, the smallholder fattening program
and to stover grazing.
2/ Cattle will be fattened in three annual batches.  Mortality is estimated at 1.5% annually.
3/ Cattle will be fattened for 210 days and will gain 100 kgs. Mortality estimated at 4%.
4/ This operation will either sell directly on the market or act as a supplementary supplier
to the feedlot. Mortality 3%.
5/  This figure is substantially lower than the one preceding, for the last lot of cattle held                         H
on the ranch in Year 5 are not treated as being sold until the beginning of  Year 6.
Note:  Those cattle from the ranches not handled by the Fattening Department would be sold on
local markets or for slaughter and subsequent sale on the Addis Ababa market.                                     o
May 15, 1975



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads
I. Introduction
Communications in General
1.        Due to Ethiopia's vast size, its rugged topography and the extremely
dry climate, the provision of communications is both difficult and costly.
Transport facilities are poorly developed; many areas of the country are almost
completely isolated and rely mainly on pack animals for transport. The main
communications links are the roads between Addis Ababa - (the administrative
center) and the main productive and economic centers, i.e. Asmara in the north,
the major Red Sea port of Assab and Jima in the southwest. Addis Ababa is
also connected with the neighboring French port of Djibouti by rail. An
internal scheduled air service provides adequate links to the regional admin-
istrative centers. In addition commercial charter services are available to
a network of airstrips which have been built throughout the country. The
country has no oil pipeline at this time, but a recent pre-investment study
found that one would be economically viable; there is therefore a possibility
that one may be built in the future between Addis Ababa and Assab.
2.        The physical remoteness of most of the population has precluded
the rapid modernization of the rural sector, and has encouraged a subsistence
economy dependent upon animal transport. The cost of animal transport makes
inter-district trade in bulky foodstuffs uneconomic; trade is normally
restricted to salable livestock and to high value per unit weight commodities
such as hides and skins, salt, sugar, ghee, luxury food items and some consumer
durables. Consequently, communities are dependent upon their own food
resources and are unable to make use of possible comparative advantages.
Ethiopian Roads System
3.        The Ethiopian Highway Authority (formerly the Imperial Highway
Authority) was established in 1951, and given prime responsibility for the
development of a network of all-weather roads. The activities of the EHA
are supervised by a Board of Commissioners appointed by the Government. To
date the existing highway network (Map) consists of about 23,000 km of roads;
about 8,600 km of these are all-weather, including some 2,000 km which are
bituminous surfaced. The all-weather roads are classified as primary, second-
ary and provincial (feeder or tertiary) roads - a classification which reflects
principally design standards rather than use. The main road network extends
radially from Addis Ababa, providing a connecting link with the major population
centers; these roads however, need upgrading, extensions and further inter-
connecting links - all of which will require substantial expenditures. Many



ANNEX 11
Page 2
of the other primary roads are quite old, dating back to the 1930's, and
will also need extensive maintenance. In addition to this network, there
are also a number of well engineered roads constructed during the Italian
occupation and by the British forces during World War II. Unfortunately,
however, these roads have had almost no maintenance over the past twenty-five
years, and have been allowed to deteriorate into pack animal tracks.
4.        In addition to the roads developed by the EHA, the provincial
authorities, in cooperation with the local people, have also developed a
local road network in many areas. While these roads were constructed at a
low cost and serve an extremely important function, the problems involved in
obtaining adequate technical advice and in securing a regul;r flow of funds
to maintain the roads already constructed have not yet been resolved.
5.        The overall road density - including roads usable only during the
dry season, is about 19 km/1,000 km2 or 0.9 per 1,000 inhabitants. Although
this ratio is among the lowest in Africa, considerable progress has been made
over the past twenty years in extending and improving the main road network.
Development of the rural road system has not kept pace with this effort,
however. This problem took on a greater significance in recent years wqhen
it became evident that a number of proposed agricultural projects could not
be implemented without a substantial investment in rural trade roads and
administrative access tracks. The Third Five Year Development Plan (1969-
1974) recognized the failure of the two previous plans to give sufficient
emphasis to this aspect of the development effort and stressed the need
for an integrated construction program.
Road Transport
6.        The total number of vehicles in use was estimated at 53,700 units
in 1973, a 6.7% increase over 1968 levels. The fleet was comprised of 76%
cars, 18% trucks, tankers and pick-ups, and 6% buses. The Road Transport
Administration (RTA) in the Ministry of Communications, Telecommunications
and Ports (MCTP) has responsibility for the licensing of commercial vehicles,
and the regulation of national tariffs; 1/ overall, however, the trucking
industry operates under relatively free competition. Even though the trucking
fleet has almost doubled in the five year period 1968-1973, transport by
pack animals and porters is still substantial; in fact, due to the poorly
developed rural roads system, it is the only means of transport in many areas.
7.        Rural Roads Task Force.  As was noted above, the provincial authori-
ties have not been particularly successful in constructing and maintaining
an adequate rural roads system. In fact, many areas of the country are still
several hundred kilometers from the nearest all-weather road. The dimensions
of the problem became evident during the recent drought; several international
agencies (particularly IDA, UNDP and UNICEF) reported that the toll in human
lives would have been much less severe had there been more ready access to
the drought stricken areas.
1/   Fixed tariffs are in force only on the Addis Ababa - Assab road.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3
8.        During the drought a number of Government agencies were called upon
to carry out emergency road works; 1/ this was supplemented by technical
assistance from a number of foreign governments 2/ and voluntary agencies. 3/
While the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission (RRC) was responsible for
coordination of these efforts, there was a pressing need for technical coordi-
nation of construction standards. This need was met by the secondment of
a highway engineer from the EHA to the RRC and the drafting of guidelines
by the RRTF on basic standards for rural roads in Ethiopia (Table 1). It
was recommended that all proposals to construct or improve rural roads or
tracks should be reviewed by the coordinator of RRTF who would decide the
standard to which the road works should be carried out.
9.        At the instigation of the IBRD, a study of local rural road needs
was completed during 1974. The study recommended the setting up of a Rural
Roads Task Force (RRTF) to determine the organizational and operational
requirements necessary for the development of the rural road system. This
task force has now been established under the direction of a Senior Ethiopian
highway engineer; preliminary assistance was provided under the IBRD Fifth
Highway Project. Under the Sixth Highway Project provision has been made
for further technical assistance to implement the rural roads organization.
10.       The RRTF recommended that in addition to the three basic road
standards (para 3), there should be three classes of rural roads which could
be progressively improved by stage construction to near the EHA standard.
Briefly the standards proposed are:
Class RRA - 6 m wide with 6 m surfacing and permanent
drainage structures. Maximum gradient 12%
over 200 i: minimum curvature 10 m in
exceptional circumstances; desirable radius
50 - 70 m.
Class RRB - 6 m wide over shoulders with 4 m selected
gravel when necessary; drainage structures
would generally be of temporary or improvised
construction. Other geometric requirements as
as Class RRA.
Class RRC - Width 4 m with passing bays every 300 m.
Essential drainage structures of temporary or
improvised materials (basically paved fords).
Geometric requirements as for RRB. Pavement
generally of natural earth with minimum of
surfacing in unsuitable soils.
1/   EHA, EPID, LMB and variuos Provincial Administrations.
2/   China, Germany, UK and USA.
3/   Terre des Homunes (Dutch), Stern Magazine (German), Catholic Secretariat
and Irish Concern Mission (EIRE).



ANNEX 11
Page 4
In general RRC is intended to be the absolute minimum standard of construction
for community development projects without technical guidance or funds.
II. The Project
A. Southern Rangelands
11.       The Southern Rangelands sub-project area covers a major part of
Sidamo Administrative Region; it extends about 275 km from north to south and
about 500 km west to east. The terrain in the north and west of the area may
be roughly described as hilly to mountainous, and in the east and south as
flat to hilly. The main access to the area is via the main road extending
south from Addis Ababa through Awassa, Dila and Yabello to Moyale on the Kenya
border; this road is being reconstr;icted to paved standard by German technical
assistance. The Addis-Awassa road has been paved for some time, and the Dila-
Yabello section is practically compLete and is open to traffic; the Yabello-
Moyale section is behind schedule and is not expected to be complete until 1976.
The Awassa-Dila section is scheduled to be paved as soon as development finance
is available. In addition to this road, there is also a rough stone all-
weather road from Awassa to Neghelli. These are the only all-weather roads
in the area; a number of roads shown on the official highway map of Ethiopia
and given route markers are former military roads which have not been main-
tained for 25 years and are now degenerated to dry season tracks negotiable
only with four-wheel drive vehicles., The condition of the remaining tracks
in the area is generally bad, although varying with the terrain; the hilly
and mountainous tracks are boulder strewn and cut by deep ravines which are
susceptible to flash floods and washi-outs. The red sandy/clay soils found
in the flat lands present no problems, but there are also large areas of
black cotton soil which became impassable after the least amount of rain.
Rivers in the flat areas tend to have wide sandy beds which are also diffi-
cult to cross after the crust of thE sand has broken up.
12.       The existing road network is insufficient to meet the immediate
needs of the Project as well as to sustain the long-term development of the
Southern Rangelands. The consultants 1/ who studied the Project area made
two basic recommendations, both of great importance to the development of
the Southern Rangelands: (a) the creation of a network of dry season tracks
covering the entire area to be developed; and (b) the rehabilitation of the
basic communications system of the area. Item (a) is essential for efficient
animal health control action, checking herd movements and the functioning
of extension and technical assistance activities; item (b) is necessary to
open up the area for administrative and trade purposes, and to facilitate
the importation of trade goods and relief supplies and the circulation of
local products. Government has recently decided to rehabilitate some of
I/   Agrotec CRG SEDES.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
the specific roads covered under the consultants' recommendations with
Relief and Rehabilitation funds; the remaining roads are included in the
Project proposals.
Project Construction and Rehabilitation
13.       The Project would provide for:
(a) the construction of 1,538 km of access tracks;
(b) the rehabilitation of 540 km of administrative and trade
roads; and
(c) the purchase of survey and construction equipment, hand
tools, etc.
The proposed road network is designed to link the basic production units of
the Project (i.e. pastoral units centered around permanent water points)
as well as to subdivide the Project area into territorial units which could
be better and more easily kept under control by the veterinary service. A
description of the access tracks and trade roads is given in Table 2. The
access tracks would be built to class RRC standard, slightly modified (Table
1), and the administrative and trade roads to RRB standards with 4 m carriage
ways and only spot surfacing. The effective length of tracks in terms of
route kilometers would be considerably higher than 1,538 km, however, for
as many of these tracks would be constructed over flat lands where nothing
more than bush clearance is necessary to allow passage by a light four-wheel
drive vehicle, only the difficult sections would require any actual construc-
tion work. The equipment required would be minimal as the bulk of the work
would be carried out by labor-intensive methods.
Execution
14.       The road program would be executed by the Southern Rangeland Develop-
ment Unit (SORDU) under the overall direction of the Project Manager. A Chief
Road Supervisor reporting to the Head of the Technical Department would be
responsible for the execution of the construction program. The program would
be largely labor-intensive and a minimum amount of equipment would be used
both in the construction stage and for subsequent maintenance. The impact
of the recent drought in the Southern Rangelands has been such that it seems
likely that the area will not be self-sufficient in food, and that grain
and other food items will, for some years, have to be imported into the area
on concessional terms. In the long term, the provision of extra employment
opportunities is essential in order to relieve human population pressure
on the range resources. In these circumstances the road program has been
planned to be as labor-intensive as possible, both in its development and
maintenance. In view of the fact that most of the track development would
be for improvement of existing roads rather than for new construction, the
amount of substantial earth-moving will be small. Minimizing the amount of
machinery required would also minimize problems of servicing and maintaining
machinery spread over a large area.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Construction Standards
15.       The area is one of generally low rainfall; for this reason, and
because the volume of traffic passing along the tracks is likely to be very
low, high design standards are neither necessary nor desirable. The stand-
ards adopted would allow two-wheel drive lorries carrying seven tons to pass
in dry weather, and four-wheel drive vehicles in all except very wet weather.
Adequate visibility would be provided at corners and passing places in
difficult terrain, otherwise a track wide enough to take just one vehicle
would be sufficient. Average speeds of 30 kilometers per hour by light
vehicles would be the target.
16.       The proposed road network would take the topographr of the area
into consideration as much as possible. During the implementation stage,
route surveys would be carried out in advance of construction in accordance
with the nature of the terrain and physical obstacles and following the
natural contours of the ground in order to minimize construction and mainte-
nance costs. The bulk of the work of clearing, grubbing, rough levelling and
ditching would be carried out by manual labor with hand tools; the use of
heavy equipment would be restricted to reducing severe gradients in
mountainous terrain, ripping soft rock and improving approaches to river
crossing. The grid roller, drawn by a tractor, would break down soft rocks
and boulders to gravel size, thus reducing damage to vehicles and trees.
The rubber-tired roller (also tractor-drawn) would compact earth tracks and
would make them more serviceable and reduce rutting or wheel tracking.
Construction of the roads would provide about 600,000 man days employment
for local labor and maintenance a further 1,000 man days per annum.
Cost Estimates
17.       The cost of the road element of the Southern Rangelands sub-project
is estimated at Eth$5.21 million (US$2.5 million).  The total capital and
recurrent costs are given in Annex L5, Tables 9 and 10.  Those estimates for
construction or rehabilitation infer an average construction cost of US$1,000
per km for track roads. The consultants (AGROTEC) reviewed the construction
costs of Government and voluntary agencies for rural roads and concluded that
dry weather rural roads can be buill at less than US$2,400 per km and tracks
at as little as US$100-200 per km. In this case, construction costs for
individual sections of rural roads and tracks would vary according to topo-
graphy and construction standard within these limits. The equipment costs
are those current at the time of appraisal; further price contingencies are
added in the summary estimates to cover cost increases to time of delivery
and expected increases in transportation and delivery costs. Local costs
include port handling charges and delivery cost to Addis Ababa. Staff com-
pensation is based on current Government rates for contract employees and
daily paid labor.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 7
Recommendations
18.       It is recommended that the 540 km of Class RRB dry season roads
and about 1,538 km of Class RRC tracks be constructed roughly as shown in
the Map and listed in Table 2. Construction of the 1,538 km of tracks
would be spread over the network of approximately 3,000 route kilometers
shown on the Map. The Project Manager should have the authority to decide
which sections of tracks should be improved and on the timing of the con-
struction so as to meet the operational requirements of the Project. Should
any other agency decide to construct any of the Class RRB roads, any savings
to the Project should be applied to improvement of the tracks. If a provin-
cial highway maintenance authority should be established with the necessary
capability, it is expected that such an authority would take over responsi-
bility for the maintenance of the Project RRB roads.
B. Jijigga
The Project Area
19.       The Project area is situated in Harar Administrative Region on the
ealtern edge of Ethiopia adjoining Somalia, and covers an area of about 35,000
km . A main all-weather road (EHA Rt 4 and 30) dissects the area from Harar via
Jijigga and south to Dagabur and beyond. This road has recently been resur-
faced with crushed stone and is generally in excellent condition. From
Jijigga, it is about 105 km to the provincial capital of Harar and 150 km
to the railway at Dire Dawa. There is an international standard airport at
Dire Dawa with daily flights to Addis Ababa capable of taking medium sized
jets. An airstrip at Jijigga can take DC3 type aircraft, although there are
no scheduled air services. Jijigga is served by the national telephone and
telecommunications network.
20.       The area can be divided into four physiographic units:
(a) East of the Jijigga-Dagabur road is a flat undissected area
largely of black cotton soil underlain by thick Jessoma
sandstone. Practically no granular soils suitable for road
making are available in the area. The sandstone could be
quarried but only at considerable cost.
(b) West of the Jijigga-Dagabur road the area is primarily
underlain by the Antalo limestone which has been dissected by
three main ephemeral rivers running from north to south. On
the high ground between the rivers the limestone is very near
the surface, and outcrops in large sheets, weathered in places,
make existing tracks very rough going. The valleys are
characterized by riverain gravel overlain by alluvial deposits.
The tracks parallel with the rivers become impassable as soon
as the ground water rises.



ANNEX 11
Page 8
(c) North of the Babilo-Jijigga road there are massive outcrops
of basement complex with relatively narrow incised valleys
impossible for road location. However, there are some
reasonably passable tracks along the ridges to the north.
(d) The area north of the Jijigga-Tugwajale road has a rolling topo-
graphy of low hills and broad valleys. The low hills are
volcanic in origin but the bulk of the area is covered with
black cotton soil overlying the Antalo limestone. Some
weathered rocks are suitable for road gravel.
21.       There is a local road and track network of very low standard con-
nected to the EHA all-weather trunk road from Harar to Dagabur; this network
is passable by trucks and four-whee:L drive vehicles for most of the year, but
only with considerable difficulty and expenditure of time. East of the Jijigga-
Dagabur road there are a great many passable tracks opened by traders, smug-
glers, and Government vehicles which are not recorded on present maps. In
this eastern area there are very few places which cannot at present be reached
by four-wheel drive vehicles in fair weather and with a persistent effort.
The western portion of the Project area lying between the Gerer river and the
Babile-Fik road is extremely difficult to enter by vehicle from east or wert.
however.
Project Construction and Rehabilitation
22.       The Project would provide for:
(a)  the construction (where no track exists at present) and
rehabilitation of 738 km of administrative tracks to Class
RRC standard;
(b) the rehabilitation of 766 km of trade roads to Class RRB
standard; and
(c) the purchase of a small amount of transport equipment and
an adequate supply of hand tools.
A description of the trade roads anct tracks is given in Table 3. The roads
would reduce the cost and facilitate the transport of consumer goods into
the Project area, and would thereby allow the human population to move away
from a substantial dependence on livestock products for their basic food to
a more varied diet and consumption pattern. The access tracks would allow
Project staff access to areas into which they would otherwise be unable to
enter except at prohibitive cost in time and money. Trade roads would be
built to a standard able to take 6-10 ton two-wheel drive lorries in dry
weather; access tracks would take only four-wheel drive vehicles in reasonable
weather. The main area, at present inaccessible, is in the Jijigga-Dagabur-
Fik-Babile rectangle, especially the Gerer, Fafan and Dakata valleys. Motorable
tracks formerly established in this area have now become overgrown and unusable.



ANNEX 11
Page 9
Execution
23.       The Project would be implemented by the Jijigga Range Development
Unit (JIRDU) based at Jijigga, headed by a senior Project Manager. A Chief
Road Superintendent under the Head of the Technical Department would be
responsible for the execution of the road program. The Technical Department
would thus be responsible for the execution of the road program and would also
provide repair and maintenance facilities for Project vehicles and equipment;
it would carry an adequate supply of spare parts for immediate needs. Con-
struction and maintenance methods would be labor intensive both in order to
provide employment opportunities and to reduce problems of maintenance of
equipment in remote places. There is an adequate labor force in the area
experienced in the use of hand tools. Construction of the roads would provide
about 500,000 man days employment for local labor for three years and there-
after maintenance would provide about 200 man years of employment per annum.
Cost Estimates
24.       The cost of the road element of the Jijigga sub-project is estimated
at Eth$ 2.2 million (US$1.0 million). The total capital and recurrent costs
are given in Annex 15, Tables 30 and 31. The cost estimates infer an average
consturction cost of US$821 per km for trade roads (Class RRB) and US$411 for
access tracks. These costs are lower than in other areas because most of the
Class RRB roads are in existence and in use, thus clearing costs are at a
minimum. The area has a very low rainfall with no mountain catchment, so
that drainage requirements are also minimal. Costs for individual sections
of the rural roads and tracks would depend on the topography being traversed
and the condition of the existing roads or tracks to be rehabilitated. The
equipment used would be confined to that necessary for transport of supervisory
staff, tools and materials. Staff compensation is based on current Government
rates for contract employees and daily paid labor. If a provincial highway
authority should be established with the necessary capability, it is expected
that it would take over responsibility for the 766 km of Class RRB roads.
Economic Evaluation
25.       Some economic benefits from the road program would accrue from
reduction in vehicle operating costs on the existing level of motor traffic
in the Project area, but this level is not known and no attempt has been made
formally to take these benefits into the cost-benefit calculation. The bene-
fits arising from lower transport costs on traffic generated directly by the
Project is taken into account in calculating these levels of cost. As pre-
viously stated, the purpose of trade roads is to reduce the cost of trans-
porting consumer goods into the Project area, and especially thereby to
facilitate and make more attractive the switch by the human population from
substantial dependence on livestock products for their basic food require-
ments to a partial dependence on cereals. At the present time even part of
the basic energy requirements of humans may be supplied from consuming milk,
although the extent to which this is so depends on the clan and the part of
the Project area in which the clan finds itself at any time. In early 1973,



ANNEX 11
Page 10
for example, there was a price differential per quintal of sorghum between
Babile and Segag (a distance of 220 kilometers by road) of about Eth$ 8.0.
The legitimate difference, given a road of reasonable standard for a rural
area, would be less than Eth$ 3 (220 kilometers x Eth$ 0.012 per quintal/kilo-
meter). A reduction in the sorghum price at Segag would trigger some substi-
tution of sorghum for milk consumption by pastoralists in the Segag area.
Even a substantial substitution would do no harm from a dietary point of view,
but would be economically desirable, since milk is a very expensive method
of meeting energy requirements. As a raw material for ghee, milk has a value
of about Eth$ 0.13 per liter. A liter of milk supplies about 660 digestible
calories. To supply 2,500 calories (approximately an adult's daily require-
ment) from milk therefore costs Eth$ 0.49. Some 2,500 calories can be sup-
plied by 730 grams of sorghum, which at a Segag price of Eth$ 15 per quintal
costs Eth$ 0.11. Put another way, at the prices quoted, the increased con-
sumption of one quintal of sorghum in substitution for milk leads to a net
saving in real cost of Eth$ 52. Where the milk released by substitution of
sorghum is not made into ghee, the calculation is more complex, since it
depends on whether the extra milk is fed to young stock (the direct conversion
rate of milk into meat is not known) or leads to a change in herd structure
and a changed marketed offtake rate.
Recommendations
26.       It is recommended that about 766 km of Class RRB dry season roads
and 738 of tracks (Class RRC) be constructed as shown on the Map and listed
in Table 3. The Project Manager should have the authority to decide which
sections of the roads and tracks should be improved, and on the timing of
the construction thereof to meet the operational requirements of the Project.
Should any other agency decide to construct or improve any of the Class RRB
roads, any savings to the Project should be applied to improvement of the
tracks.
C. Northeast Rangelands
The IDA Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project
27.       Following the drought of 1971-74 in which the Administrative Regions
of Tigre and Wollo were particularly hard hit, the Association approved a drought
rehabilitation project for these areas. This comprehensive project
included support for rural roads, rural water supplies, a pilot settlement
program for the northeast rangelands, assistance for project preparation
and establishment of rural health centers, etc. Some of the project compon-
ents benefitted the immediate relief/rehabilitation effort, while others re-
lated more closely to longer term programs. The project was carried out in
one portion of the total area to be covered by the proposed project.
28.       The road component of that project (see Map) included equipment
for two mechanized road construction units capable of constructing and im-
proving 400-500 km of rural access roads in the two provinces over 2-3 years.



ANNEX 11
Page 11
Provision was also made for technical assistance and operating costs over
the same period. The estimated total of US$1,520,000 was comprised of
US$1,200,000 for equipment and spares, US$120,000 for consultant services
and US$200,000 for operating costs. It was proposed that the equipment be
procured by the Ethiopian Highway Authority (EHA) and construction carried
out by the Rural Roads Task Force (flnanced under Highway I and II projects).
In the case of Tigre which has a well established and proven provincial roads
organization - the Tigre Development Organization (TDO) - the equipment may
be handed over to this organization to operate at some future time. On the
other hand, Wollo has no such organization; at the present time British Tech-
nical Assistance (ODM) have instituted a pilot construction and maintenance
project with the aim of establishing and training a provincial roads organiza-
tion. Ultimately this organization will take over responsibility for all the
roads in the province which are not constructed or maintained by the EHA.
The Project Area
29.       The Project area covers more than half of Tigre and Wollo Adminis-
trative Regions lying below the escarpment east of the Dessie-Asmara road
(EHA Route 1).  It is roughly 400 km from north to south anq 200 km from east
to west in its widest parts and covers an area of 75,000 km . On the east the
area is bounded by French territory of Afars and Isars, in the northeast by
Eritrea, in the west by the foothills of the escarpment and in the south
by Bakenna and Awash rivers. The Project area, though itself an area of low
rainfall, lies at the bottom of the escarpment to the east of and below a
narrow strip of land steeply sloping east; the western edge of this area
rises from between 2,500 m to 4,000 m and has a mean annual rainfall of
1,000-1,400 mm in the south and 800-900 m in the north. The whole area
may be described as semi-arid with four distinct seasons. Numerous rivers
drain into the Project area, some of which are perennial throughout most
of their length within the Project area. Along the foothills of the escarp-
ment, flash floods are common, but most streams can be crossed after a com-
parative short waiting period (up to several hours).
30.       This vast and largely inaccessible area is traversed on the south
and east by Dessie-Assab Road (EHA Route 2) and on the top of the escarpment
on the west side by the Dessie-Asmara road (ERHA Route 1). At the present
time access from the top of the escarpment to the Project area down on the
plain is very precarious, but several more permanent access roads will be
built under the IDA Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project. A number of
primitive tracks cross the area which, when dry, are motorable with four-
wheel drive vehicles and large trucks only half loaded; river crossings,
rock outcrops, lava fields and black cotton soil make going very hazardous,
slow and expensive, however. Under the "Food for Work Program" a number of
tracks have been improved (notably Burka-Dawe and Burka, north-wards to Bilu
and continuing to Didigsala). The standard of the work is very poor, however,
due to the inexperience of the nomad Affar labor available for the work. This
particular route is due to be raised to Class B Standard under the IDA Drought
Areas Rehabilitation Project. The Haik-Bistima-Alabati route is also being
improved to all weather standard by the German "STERN" group.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 12
31.       Detailed geological and mineralogical investigations have not
been made, but preliminary investigations in Tigre province in the north
indicate high mineral potential in the "Horst" to the west of Dalol. Also
within the Danakil Depression, grotndwater is lost by evaporation leaving
behind extensive deposits of salts, comprised mainly of sodium chloride
and potassium carbonate; the deposits are known to be extensive. Adequate
road access to heavy drilling and prospecting equipment is essential in this
area to fully investigate and develop the natural resources.
32.       Airfields at Dessie and Mekele are used by Ethiopian Airlines for
scheduled flights, but since navigational aids are elementary and flight
approaches precarious, cancellations are frequent during inclement weather.
Landing strips are available at Dubti (near Loggia) and Assayita on the
plains and are available for use by light aircraft in all but exceptionally
wet weather. Telecommunication links are confined to the few small towns
on the main roads.
33.       Over most of the Project area, suitable natural soils for road
construction are not available. Silt is predominant in the flood plains
and deltas of the rivers, and in the flat lands there are large areas of
black cotton soils; in many areas there are deposits of riverain gravel or
medium sized weathered rocks. These are frequently used by maintenance
crews to fill in ruts in the black cotton soil tracks, but in effect are
quite useless and it is far better to abandon the old track and make a new
one. On the eastern side of the Project area there are a number of large
lava flows from extinct volcanoes, and there is also one active volcano.
The track north of Sardo to Lake Afrera passes through a particularly rough
lava field and it would be difficult to make a passable road at reasonable
cost. In the foothills soils are more varied and granular due to the
weathering of a variety of rocks - limestones, sandstones, quartz granites,
etc. Tracks and roads properly located in these areas will provide a reason-
able all-season service.
Project Construction and Rehabilitation
34.       The Project would provide for:
(a)  the construction of 165 in of Class RRB roads;
(b)  the construction/improvement of 380 km of Class RRC tracks;
(c)  the purchase of survey and construction equipment, hand tools,
materials, etc.;
(d) construction of a limited number of airstrips;
(e)  purchase of radio communication equipment.



ANNEX 11
Page 13
A description of the roads and tracks is given in Table 4. The lengths given
above are the route kilometers; actual construction would be confined to the
difficult terrain, since considerable lengths of road or track require only
the removal of bushes or scrub to define the actual route. River and gulley
crossings would be constructed with gabions, which are in effect wire cages
filled with boulders. These form a dam across the river or stream and when
covered with riverain sand and gravel maintain a fairly permanent river cross-
ing. As construction would be labor intensive, equipment has been kept down
to the minimum required to service the labor force. On the other hand a
liberal supply of hand tools, including hammers for breaking stones over the
lava flows, and a blacksmith's set for sharpening hand tools has been provided
for.
35.       At each Project Development Center and at Project Headquarters
a transceiver radio would be installed for regular and emergency broadcasts
between Project managements and the field service. The mobile veterinary
units and the regular vaccination units would also be supplied with transceiver
sets so that they could keep in constant contact with Project Headquarters,
the Development Centers and the Head of the Veterinary services.
Execution
36.       The road program would be executed by the Northeast Rangelands
Development Unit (NERDU) under the Project Manager. A Chief Road Superin-
tendent would be responsible for the execution of the construction program.
As the IDA Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project has provided for the construc-
tion of the major roads in the area, the proposed project roads will be entirely
labor intensive. There is already a large nomadic Affar task force engaged in
the construction of tracks under the "Food for Work Program." At the present
time the productivity and quality of work is very poor, but is expected to
iraprove in time as the nomads become accustomed to the work; both female and
male laborers are used. The construction program would provide for the employ-
ment of about 300,000 man days of employment during the life of the Project.
Maintenance of the completed roads and tracks would be the responsibility of
the Project organization until such time as a provincial maintenance organi-
zation is established.
Cost Estimates
37.       The cost of the road component of the Northeast Rangelands sub-
project is estimated at Eth$ 966,800 (US$483,000). The total capital and
recurrent costs are given in Annex 15 Tables 49 and 50. The above estimates
infer a construction cost of US$1,690 per km for the roads and US$510 for
the tracks. In this case, construction costs for individual sections of rural
roads and tracks would vary according to topography and construction standard
within these limits. The equipment costs are those current at the time of
appraisal. Further price contingencies are added in the summary estimates
to cover cost increases to time of delivery and expected increases in trans-
portation and delivery costs. Local costs include port handling charges,
insurance and delivery charges to Addis Ababa. Staff compensation is based
on current Government rates for contract employees and daily paid labor.



ANNEX 11
Page 14
III. RECOMMENDATIONS
38.       It is recommended that 165 km of Class RRB and 380 km of Class RRC
dry season roads and tracks be constructed under the Project, roughly as
shown on the Map and listed in Table 4. These roads would directly comple-
ment the 400-500 km of roads to be built under the IDA Drought Areas Rehabili-
tation Project. The Project Director should have the authority to decide
which sections of tracks should be improved and on the timing of the construc-
tion to meet operational requirements of the project. Should any other agency
decide to construct any of the roads, any savings to the Project should be
applied to improvement of the tracks.
July 22, 1975



ANNEX 11
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Standards for Rural Roads in  th~iopiai
Rural Road Classification
Characteristics            A                    B                   C             Modified C
1.  Right of way       3 m beyond construc tion limits         Not specified
- minimum 30 m
2.  Platform width           6 m to outside edge of shoulder                       3 m carriage way
widening to 6 m
on flat plains
where no earth is
moved
3.  Gradients          Maximum 12%           Maximum 12%       as for A & B
over 200 m            over 200 m        as far as
possible
4.  Curvature                        desir4ble radius of cu  ature                  No restrictions
50-70 meters on center  line of
road
5.  Pavement           15 cm selected        15 cm selected    Natural earth       Very little spot
gravel or crushed   gravel or crusheI with spot sur-    surfacing.  No
stone over full      stone 4 m wide    facing with         passing bays
width                                   selected material
in worst places.
4 m width with
passing bays
every 300 m
6.  Camber                           3% - 1% depending on vertical
gradi Lnt and surface material
7. Drainage                          side lrains, where provided, to be
80-10D cm below the crowJn level of
the r ad
8.  Structures
(i)  culverts         Permanent pipe   of temporary        Paved fords
or box culverts      construction      where funds
i                      made with old    permit
oil or asphalt drams
(ii)  bridges      Permanent bridges   Temporary bridges:  Paved fords           Wire & stone-
up to 6 m span -    with timber decks:  where funds          filled gabions
submersible          and gabion abut-    permit              where funds
structures on        ments or submer-                        permit
greater spans        sible culverts
of improvised
materials        I_I
1/  Condensed from a report prepared by a special committee of the
Rural Roads Task Force, Ethiopian Highway Authority



ANNEX 11
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangflands
Schedule of Project Roads and Tracks
Map                 Description                             --- Route km ---
Ref.                                                       New      Improved
Class "B" Administrative & Trade Road (Route 9)
A         Yabello - Sugun Minch                              -          90
B         From pt. A - Teltal:Le                             -         190
C         Mega - Muisabit                                    -          50
D         Wachille - El Golf - El Leh - Moyale               -         130
E         Fron pt. B to El Gummu - Hobok - El Dima           -          80
540
Class "C" Access Tracks
F         Finchoa - Arero - Wachile                          -         180
G         Track F - Awata river                             30          -
H         Track F - pilot project                             8         -
I         Track F - Tille                                   25          -
J         Track F - Irmaye                                  60          -
K         Track F - Hudot road                               -          20
L         Pilot project - Web - Das - Sorupu (EHA Rt 6)   70            -
M         Pilot project - Susupu (EHA Rt 6)                  10         -
N         Dubuluk - Web - Wachille                           -         100
0         Higo - El Sod                                      -          40
P         El Sod - El Gay -Das - Bullale                    45          45
Q         Tass - Weubara                                     --         35
R         Ulaulo - Burkawa                                   -          15
S         Negelli - Dodolo - Melka Allul                    10          80
T         Dodola - Duko                                      -          _
U         Walena - Dodo - Junct "W"                         15         135
v         El Leh - El Dere - Chellanco - Melka Merri         -         240
(Dawa river)
W         Filta - Betjo - Bander - (Ganale Doria river)   -            120
x         Filta - Melka Kalucha - Sadey                      -         200
Y         Sadey - Jarso (Giarsa)                             -          55
273        1,265
Smmary                kma
Class "B"         540
Class "C"       1j.538
TOTAL       2,078 (approx.)
1May 6, 1975



ANEX 11
Table 3
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jij igga
Schedule of ProJect Roads & Tracks
Identifi-                                           Length
cation                 Description                    kms              Comment
Code
Trade Roads (Class RRB)
A          Babile - Fik                             132        E. Fair Condition
B          Fik - Segag                               90        E. Poor Condition
C          Segag - (loop to Degamedo) -
Dagabur                              127        E. Poor Condition
D          Dagabur - Aware                           73        E. Poor Condition
E          Aware - Sheikh                            30        E. Fair Condition
F          Sheik - Harshin                           82        E. Fair Condition
G          Sheik - Enagoha                           47        E. Fair Condition
H          Harshin - Harre
(on Gabre Baia - Jijigga road)            83       E. Fair Condition
I           3Gabre Baia - Duruwale                   30        E. Fair Condition
J          Gore (Babile - Jijigga road) -
Galacia                               50        E. Bad Condition
K          Hartichek - Debile                        22        F. Fair Condition
766
Administrative Access Tracks
(Class RRC)
L          Duruwale - Gaho - Galalcia                60        P
Mz         Galalcia - Degamedo                      110        p
N          Fafan River Track (near Jijigga -                   40 km E. Poor Condition.
near Degamedo)                        170       Remainder unsu-rveyed
Q          Duruwale - Dagabur along E,Erer R.       100        P
R          Harshin - Higlolc (north of Dagabur)    60          E. Poor Condition
S          Galacia - Au Sherif                       35        Unsurveyed
T          Access Tracks to Erer River               58        Unsurveyed
U          Fik - Degamedo                            90        E. Poor Condition
1W         Lower Dacata access track                _55        Unsurveyed
738
E - Existing track currently used.            P ' Previous track now abandoned.
The standards good, fair, poor are according to local standards, which are low.



ANN1EX l
Table 4
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NrhstRelns
Schedule of Project Roads and Tracks
-- Route km --
Class    Class
Description                        RRB      RRC
1. Agula - Lugodo - Dalol                                  40        75
2.  Dalol - Lake Afrera                                     -       95
3.  Lake Afrera - Serdo (EHA Rt 2)                         50      115
4.  Chercher - Yalloo (Gugubdo) - Teira Depression         40       -
5.  Mt. Zebu - Junct. Bilu - Didigsala  Road               35        -
6.  Didigsala - Loggia (EHA Rt. 2)                          -       95
165      380
165
TOTAL                   545



ANNEX 12
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training
Current Government Programs
1.        Extension.  Since the 1950's Ethiopia has had a nationwide general
agricultural extension program under the auspices of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture. In practice, acute shortages of staff and funds, as well as the
absence of well-researched innovations and of an effective credit program
have sharply limited its utility. Since the late 1960's, there has been a
switch away from emphasis on the general nationwide program towards regionally
or project-based extension efforts run by, and in connection with, specific
projects such as CADU, WADU, the Minimum Package Program, and the Dairy Devel-
opment Agency. With the exception of the latter, these agencies are prima-
rily concerned with crop production, although CADU and WADU have small live-
stock programs. The Veterinary Division of the Ministry of Agriculture has
also been ready to give general advice on livestock development to Ethiopia's
farmers as well as specialist advice on animal health, although their role
so far has been limited. The village-level workers of the Ministry of
National Community Development have also provided some agricultural extension
facilities to farmers in certain areas.
2.        Training.  The training of Government agricultural workers is
formally the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture's Training and
Information Department. Training of agricultural graduates (B.A.) takes
place at the Alemaya Agricultural College of the National (Haile Sellassie I)
University, and of the sub-B.A. level (secondary education plus two years'
professional training) at Ambo and Jimma Agricultural Institutes (general
agricultural workers), and at Debre Zeit Animal Health Training School
(Animal Health Assistants). Training of more junior agricultural staff (e.g.
Assistant Extension Agents) has been done by the specific project (e.g. CADU)
employing them. Some residential training courses for farmers have been run
by CADU and by the Dairy Development Agency. The Training and Information
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture has a program for the building and
operating of farmers' training centers in a number of places. Radio programs
on agricultural techniques and development are drawn up by the Department,
and broadcast by Radio Ethiopia.
Project Training
3.        The development of the rangelands and the gradual changing of the
traditional practices of a nomadic people will be a slow and difficult process,
and the success of this program will depend almost entirely on the willing
cooperation of the stock owners themselves. It will also depend on the enthu-
siasm and expertise demonstrated by the various levels of Project staff, parti-



ANNEX 12
Page 2
cularly those who would be working directly with the nomads. Consequently the
Project training program would be a two-tiered effort aimed both at training
local Project staff and at educating and integrating the tribal groups in the
development process.
4.        The training program would be specially tailored in each of the
three Project areas to allow for varying customs, languages, levels of devel-
opment, availability of trained staff, etc. Basically, however, the program
would consist of four elements:
(a) training of local staff in improved extension, range manage-
ment and veterinary practices;
(b)  training and education of local tribal leaders;
(c) training of local stock owners; and
(d) short courses for all Project staff in their particular
fields, and the provision of a limited number of fellowships
for study either elsewhere in East Africa or abroad.
In order to carry out this program, a training center would be established
in each of the three sub-project areas (2 in the Northeast Rangelands area);
provision would also be made for a mobile training center to move throughout
the more remote parts of each area. The center would be staffed with a
Senior Training Officer and a smal'L number of supporting personnel.
5.        Practical Staff Training.  The practical training of Project staff
would include but not be limited to the activities described below:
Staff Training
Category of Staff              Duration of                Outline of Curriculum
initial train-
ing course in
days
Senior Range Management
Staff                          10         Principles of range management,
the range reserve system, appli-
cable law, Project objectives
and organization, operation and
maintenance of fodder banks,
water points and dips.
Range Guards                         10         Principles of range management,
the range reserve system, appli-
cable law, Project objectives
and organization, operation and
maintenance of fodder banks,
water points and dips.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Range Assistants                     60        Recognition and classification
of vegetation; simple techniques
required in range studies.
Water Point/Dip                                Operation and maintenance of
attendants                           5        water points and dips, collecting
and accounting for watering and
dipping charges.
Veterinary Scouts                    60        Diagnosis and reporting of
disease; simple preventive and
prophylactic treatments; Project
objectives and organization
(especially range management);
marketing methods; methods of
instruction.
Agents and Assistant                 10        Methods of growing out/fattening
Agents of Minimum                              cattle i.e. feeds, animal
Package Program                                husbandry, disease prevention,
production of fodder crops, etc.
All Senior Staff                      5        Project objectives and organiza-
tion, methods of instruction.
All Staff                                      Special language classes where
necessary (applies particularly
to Somali language instruction
in the Jijigga area).
In addition to this formal instruction, regular follow-up courses would be
given, with special emphasis on the training of range assistants and veterinary
scouts.
6.        Training of Tribal Leaders.  Near the beginning of the Project
period, tribal chiefs and elders would be invited to spend four or five days
at the Project training center. This would be done to familiarize them with
the objectives and methods of the Project, and to enable them to begin to
develop a good working relationship with the staff who would be operating in
their area. This introductory program would be followed up by further con-
tacts by the mobile training center, as it is believed that these people would
probably be more receptive to new ideas when they were in their own familiar
environment.
7.        Training of Stock Owners.  Training of stock owners (both transhu-
mant and sedentary) under the Project would be mainly the responsibility of the
veterinary scouts, who would in addition to their duties in the direct treat-
ment of animals also function as extension workers. They would instruct stock-
owners:



ANNEX 12
Page 4
(a) in how to hand-dress and dose stock against ecto- and endo-
parasites;
(b) in the use of simple dressings in case of injuries;
(c) in the trimming of sheep's feet;
(d) on the animal facilities (vaccinations, dipping, other treatments)
available under the Project, including where and at what price
the stockowners can buy supplies or get treatments.
The veterinary scouts would receive some instruction in how to impart infor-
mation (techniques of instruction), and would be issued with suitable instruc-
tional kit, including a transistor radio on which they could receive broad-
casts about livestock matters and pass them on to their tribal groups.
8.        Supplemental Training Programs.  In addition to the regular training
programs described above, certain other special training would be available
to meet the special needs of a particular area:
(a) language training;
(b) preparation of livestock information programs to be
broadcast in the local dialect over the regular radio
stations;
(c) public relations programs and dissemination of information
about the projects;
(d) training of Afars in irrigated crop production (Northeast
Rangelands); and
(e) training of laborers to serve as foremen and supervisors
and in irrigation and road construction programs (Northeast
Rangelands).
9.        Short Courses and Fellowships.  Three types of training would be
provided:
(a) Professional courses. In the early years of the Project
three high school graduates from each sub-project area
would be sent abroad for professional training in range
management, veterinary medicine, sociology or animal hus-
bandry for an average of four years each.
(b) Intermediate Level and Diplomate Training. During the
first three years five staff members of each sub-project
would be sent each year for a refresher training course
averaging three months in duration at an appropriate
training institution.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
(c) Stock Owner Training. Twenty nomadic cattle owners would
be selected in each of the first three years of the Protject
and sent on a 30-day tour of cattle ranches, rangeland
development projects, and fattening schemes in neighboring
East African countries.
Project Costs
10.       The costs of the Project training programs are detailed in Annex 15,
Tables 13, 14, 32, 33, 51 and 52.
July 22, 1975



ANNEX 13
Page 1
ETHIOPTA
NOMADIC RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trials and Studies
1.        The program of trials and studies proposed under the Project would
be designed to carry out technical and socio-economic investigations both in
order to provide immediate answers to technical problems and to assess the
effects of the different components of the Project.
General Ethiopian Background
2.        The Ethiopian Government's Agricultural Research Institute (ARI)
is responsible for carrying out much of the agricultural research in Ethiopia,
as well as for coordinating the efforts of other research organizations. In
addition to the work carried out by ARI, the other major agricultural develop-
ment programs (CADU, WADU, Minimum Package Program, Dairy Development Agency)
have their own programs of trials carried out with varying degrees of coopera-
tion with ARI. The Yabello Pilot Project in the Southern Rangelands area
initiated research on range enclosures. The Alemaya Agricultural College of
the National (Haile Selassie I) University has for many years carried on a
program of agricultural research based on food and cash crops. Socio-economic
studies have received much less attention, but in the course of Project prepa-
ration over four years, LMB has gathered a considerable amount of pre-Project
statistics and socio-economic data. Some academic work on rural social and
economic life has been done by anthropologists in Ethiopia, but few studies
have as yet been carried out by agricultural economists.
3.        The Project program of studies and trials would have three purposes:
(a) to provide technical information for the execution of the
Project. An example would be trials on cactus varieties
to determine which kind should be introduced under the
Project as a "fodder bank" for periods of low rainfall.
(b)  to provide more general information for strategic long-
term decisions as to how this and other projects should
be implemented.
(c) to provide regular periodic information on Project achieve-
ments.
Little justification is needed for the first of these purposes, since trials
of this nature are a common feature in agricultural projects. As far as the
second is concerned, this Project would be the first full-scale range develop-
project in Ethiopia; it is therefore important that it should be made to yield



ANNEX 13
Page 2
the maximum amount of data, so that these experiences can serve as a guide to
the further development of the livestock sub-sector. Thirdly, a flow of
regular information is required in order to monitor progress and to assist
Project management in the exploration of successful development.
Project Investigations
4.        A description of the main areas of investigation is provided below.
5.        Range Management.  Studies would be initiated under the Project to
determine trends in range production as well as vegetative changes and to
investigate those practices which appear capable of maintaining range produc-
tivity and of giving the most profitable sustained yield of livestock products.
Specific items for study would include:
(a) the establishment of enclosures for the testing of
various range management practices;
(b) range ecology studies using transects;
(c) introduction of important forage-producing cactus species;
(d) introduction and preservation of browse and fodder-producing
trees and shrubs; and
(e) fodder crop trials.
6.        Socio-Economic Studies.  Not only is this Ethiopia's first full-
scale range-management project, but similar projects in other parts of the
world have not been adequately monitored and evaluated as they progressed.
As a consequence too little is known about their effectiveness. It is
proposed to incorporate in the Project an evaluation unit which would not
only evaluate the effects of this Project, but would also develop an effective
methodology for evaluating similar projects in the future. A certain amount
of base-line data has already been collected during the course of Project
preparation, particularly on livestock populations, herd structures and
marketed offtake. This would be supplemented by further base-line studies,
and changes from the base-line situation brought about by the Project would
be monitored.
7.        The following additional base-line studies would be carried out:
(a) motor traffic density surveys on roads within the Project area;
(b) livestock weights, by class and season;
(c) household consumption patterns;
(d) crop yields and values;



ANNEX 13
Page 3
(e) a list of the tribaI groups in the Project area which are
mainly dependent on the rangelands for a livelihood; and
(f) more detailed information than has been obtained so far on
migration patterns, their causes, extent, timing and frequency.
8.        During the course of the Project further studies would be undertaken
to investigate changes which have occurred during the life of the Project;
these would include:
(a) herd structures;
(b)  marketed offtake;
(c) livestock weights by class and season;
(d) livestock populations;
(e) motor traffic densities;
(f) household consumption patterns;
(g) the degree of contact between the pastoralists and the
Government's services (veterinary, extension, training,
water supplies, etc.);
(h)  prices for livestock;
(i) crop yields and incomes of farmers participating in the
smallholdar fattening programs;
(j) migration patterns.
9.        Management Information.  Information to assist management would
be provided in two ways:
(a)  by a series of regular reports produced at quarterly intervals,
with more detailed evaluation at annual intervals; and
(b) by special studies on specific activities not covered by the
"impact" studies of paragraph 8 above.
July 22, 1975



ANNEX 14
Page I
ETEIIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMB Headquarters Staff
Livestock Development Department
1.        The three range development projects would be managed as separate
entities within the Livestock and Meat Board (LMR). It is evident, however,
that certain administrative, technical and financial services would be most
efficiently provided to all three projects by a single unit located at LMB
headquarters in Addis Ababa. For this reason a Livestock Development Depart-
ment would be established within LMB to coordinate the projects and to advise
the Project Managers on overall policy matters. Some of the staff for this
department would be provided under the Project or through bilateral aid;
others would be made available through a reorganization of the existing staff
of LMB's project office and from the staff of the former Animal Production
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture (which has been transferred intact
to IMB). The Livestock Development Department would provide a number of
common services to the three sub-projects; it would:
(a) serve as a communications center for the three projects:
(b) assist with activities for which the projects would need a
representative in Addis Ababa, i.e., preparation and
presentation of budgets, attendance at committee meetings
and arrangements for travel and visitors;
(c) act as a central clearing post for recruitment and training
of Project staff;
(d) provide office space and administrative services to Project
staff while in Addis;
(e) provide technical services and advice in the fields of
hydrology, hydrogeology, and water engineering;
(f) provide technical range management advice as well as advice
on range ecology and range economics and sociology: and
(g) provide assistance and advice with the dissemination of
information on the projects through mass media and other
forms of communication.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
2.        In order to help the Department to carry out these functions, the
following staff would be provided under the Project:
(a) Head of the Department who would be an internationally
recruited Administrator, Economist or Engineer;
(b) two Technical Managers - one each for Project Management
and Veterinary Services;
(c) a Personnel Officer;
(d) a Water Engineer;
(e) a Sociologist;
(f) a Mass Media/Training Specialist;
(g) supporting staff.
3.        In addition to these, it is expected that the following staff would
be provided outside the Project under bilateral aid:
(a) one internationally recruited hydrogeologist for four years;
(b) one internationally recruited range ecologist for four years;
(c) one internationally recruited sociologist or economist for
four years; and
(d) one irrigation engineer (stationed in the Northeast Rangelands area).
Supplemental Staff to be Provided within LMB
4.        LMB would also provide certain other financial and procurement
services to the three range projects. In order to assist in these tasks, as
well as to enable LMB to improve the efficiency of its own operations, supple-
mental staff would be provided within both the Finance Department and the
Procurement Division.
5.        Finance Department.  As the Livestock Development Department would
not have a special financial unit within it, LMB's Finance Department would
provide certain services to the Project; these would include:
(a) running of a post-factum internal audit of the various
activities of the three projects;
(b) establishment of sound accounting systems and financial
procedures for the individual projects, and training of
Project staff in the implementation of these;



ANNEX 14
Page 3
(c) collation, processing and despatch of IDA/ADF reimbursement
applications for all Project activities;
(d) ensuring that the bank accounts of individual range projects
are kept adequately maintained with the necessary funds;
(e) integration of the annual budget forecasts of individual
range project into the overall IMB budget;
(f) advising the General Manager of LMB on the financial implica-
tions of the activities of individual range projects, and to
provide him with regular financial forecasts and statements
of accounts in respect of all Project activities; and
(g)  to obtain from IDA/ADF and Government the funds allocated
for Project activities.
6.        In order to better enable LMB to carry out these duties, the follow-
ing additional staff would be provided within the Finance Department:
(a) one internationally recruited Financial Controller;
(b) one Internal Auditor (reporting directly to LMB's General Manager); and
(c) two accountants to deal with reimbursement applications and
the collation of Project accounts and forecasts.
7.        Procurement Division.  Each of the three range projects would have
a procurement officer stationed at its Project Headquarters. It is expected,
however, that he would handle mostly local procurement and that all foreign
and national procurement would be carried out on a consolidated basis from
Addis Ababa. This latter task would be taken over by LMB's Procurement
Division under LMB regulations, but with the specific requests channelled
through by the individual project procurement officers. To carry out these
tasks, the following additional staff would be provided within the Procurement
Division:
(a)  a Senior Procurement Officer; and
(b) one junior procurement officer.
Payments for urgent items to be procured through LMB would be made on the
strength of the individual project's request from LMB's own funds, and
recovered later from the individual projects.
October 30, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Range Management - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost               Year I                     Year 2                    Year 1-5
Investment Category          Unit   Total       FE       No.   Total       FE       No.   Total       FE         Total       FE
Housing
Head of Department                No.    50,000    15,000    1    50,000    15,000
Senior Staff                      "      35,000    10,000    2    70,000    20,000    1    35,000    10,000
Subordinate Staff                 i       1,900        600    7    13,300       4,200    8    15,200      4,800
Subtotal                                                 133,300    39,200           50,200    14,800    183,500    54,000
Vehicles
4x4 LWB Station Wagon             "      28,000    21,000    1    28,000    21,000
4x4 LWB Pickup                    "      23,500    17,500    3    70,500    52,500
4x4 Lorry 5 ton                   "      52,000    42,000    1    52,000    42,000
Subtotal                                                 150,500   115,500                                 150,500   115,500
Equipment and Furniture
Camping Equipment Class I         Set     1,350      1,010    2      2,700      2,020
Camping Equipment Class II        "         700        500    6      4,200      3,000
Furniture(Head of Department)   "         3,000      2,100    1      3,000      2,100
Radio Transceiver                 No.     6,000      4,500    2    12,000       9,000
Subtotal                                                  21,900    16,120                                  21,900    16,120
Other Items
Enclosures                        No.    39,456    11,832                                5   197,280    59,160
Range Studies                             3,600      2,520    1      3,600      2,520
Subtotal                                                   3,600      2,520         197,280    59,160    200,880    61,680
Total                                                    309,300   173,340          247,480    73,960    556,780   247,300
FE 447%
April 25, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Range Management - Recurrent Costs
(Eth$)
Unit                 Year 1                        Year 2                   year 3                    year 4                   Year 5                       Year 1-5
Category                        Cost         FE    No.   Total   FE          No.   Total    FE         No.   Total    FE         No.   Tota.    Total    Total   FE                       Toal        FE
Wages and Salaries
Head of Department                 70,000    49,000   1   70,000   49,000    1   70,000   49,000    1   70,000   49,000    1   70,000   49,000                 1   70,000   49,000
Land Use Planner                   11,600               1   11,600                1   11,600               1   11,600                1   11,600                1   11,600
Head of Range Water Section         9,600               1    9,600                1    9,600                1    9,600               1    9,600                1    9,600
Head of Range Studies Section       9,600               1    9,600                1    9,600               1    9,600                1    9,600                1    9,600
Raange Assistants                   3,000               2    6.000                4    6,000               4    6,000                4    6,000                4    6,000
Water Scouts                           900              5    4,500               10    9,000              20   18,000               25   22,500               25   22,500
Store Keeper                         2,400              1    2,400                1    2,400               1    2,400                1    2,400                1    2,400
Drivers                              2,400              5   12,000                5   12,000               5   12,000                5   12,000                5   12,000
Guards                                 900              2    1,800                2    1,800               2    1,800                2    1,800                2    1,800
Cleaners                               540              2    1,080                2    1,080               2    1,080                2    1,080                2    1,080
Enclosure Guards                     1,200                                        5    6,000               5    6,000                5    6,000                5    6,000
Subtotal                                   128,580   49,000          139,080   49,000         148,080   49,000          152,5ouj  49,000          152,580   49,000          720,900  245,000
Per Diem !'                      2/                          17,000                   20,060                    20,060                    20,060                   20,060
Pension Fund & Post Allowances-                               7,714                    8,344                     8,884                     9,154                    9,154
Subtotal                                    24,774                    28,404                   2839h4                    29,214                    29,214                   140,550
Vehicle Running Costs
4 x 4 Lorry       -                12,960      9,720   1   12,960    9,720            12,960    9,720           12,960    9,720           12,960    9,720          12,960    9,720
Pickups and Station Wagon           8,640      6,480   4   34,560   25,920            34,560   25,920           34,560   25,920           34,560   25,920          34,560   25,920
Subtotal                                    47,520   35,640           47,520   35.640          47,520   35,640           47,520   35,640           47,520   35,640          237,600  178,200
Maintenance 3/
Housing and Enclosures (2.5%)                                                          3,332        833          9,500    2,375            9,500    2,375            9,500     2,375
Equipment and Furniture (5%)                                                              110        27            110        27             110        27             110        27
Subtotal                                                               3,442       860          9,610    2,402            9,610    2.402            9,610     2.402          32,272    8,066
Total                                      200,874   84,640          218,446   85,500         234,154   87,042          238,924   87,042          238,924   87,042        1,131.322  431,266
FE 38%
1/  1 Senior Range Officer           100 days at Eth$20 per day = Eth$2,000
1 Range Ecologist                150   "   "       20  "       =     3,000
2 Head of Sections               150  "   "       16  "        =     4,800
4 Range Assistants               180  "   "         8"         =      5,760
5 Drivers                        150   "   "        6"         =      4,500
2/  A sum of 6% of total salaries and wages was taken to cover future pension commitments and hardship post allowances for
certain categories of staff.
3/  Houses and enclosures 2.5% of original investment cost starting year 2.  Furniture and equipment 5% of original
investment cost starting year 2.
July 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGElANDS DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Veterinary Services - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost                    Year 1                             Year 2                            Year 3                          Year 1-5
Category                       Unit       Total         FE         No.      Total       FE            No.     Total        FE           No.      Total        FE            Total           FE
Housing and other Buildings
Dsepartment Head                       No.     50,000      15,000          1     50,000    15,000
Senior Staff                           No.     35,000      10,000          1     35, 000    10, 000
Junior Staff                          No.      13,500       4,000         4      54,000    16,000           9       121,500    36,000
Subordinate Staff                      No.      1,900         600         4       7,600      2,400          9        17,100      5,400
Laboratory                            No.      35,000      10,500          1     35,000    10,500
Field Stations 1/                     No.      18,000       5,400         2      36,000    10,900           3        54,000    16,200
Vet. Offices                           No.      4,800       1,440         2       9,600      2,880
Drug Supply Store                     No.      14,400       4,800         1      14 400      4 800                 ___
Subtotal                                                                     241,600    72,380                  192,600    57,600                                            434,200        129,980
Vehicles 2/
4 a 4 LWB - Station Wagon              No.     28,000      21,000          1     28,000    21,000
4 x 4 LWB - Pink-ups                   No.     23,500      17,500          3     70,500    52,500           5       117,500    87,500
*   Trailer-                  No.       6,000       4,000         3     is,000    12.000            5       30.000    20.000                                            264,000        193,000
Subtotal                                                                     116,500    85,500                  147,500   107,500
Eq.ipn..t
Laboratory Equipment                   Set     25,000      17,500         1      25,000    17,500
Field Station                         SOt      11,280       7,896         2      22, 560    15, 792         3        33, 840    23,688
Vaccinators                            Set       1,164         816         4      4,656      3,264          5         5,820      4,08n
Veterinary Scouts                      Set         312         216       40      12,480      8,640         40        12,480      8,640         60       18,720      12,960
Supply Drugs Unit                      Set      6,000       4,200         1       6,000      4,200
Cattle Dips                           No.       9,720       6,720         1       9,720      6,720          3        29,160    20, 160
Radio Transceiver                     No.       6,000       4,500         4      24.000    18 000           5        30.000    22,500                  _ _
Subtotal                                                                     104,416    74,116                  111,300    79,068                   18,720      12,960       234,436        166,144
Furniture
Department Head                        Set      3, 000      2,100          1      3, 000     2,100
Vet. Office                            Set       1,000         708         2      2,016      1,416
Laboratory                             Set      1,200         840          1      1,200        840
AhA Office                             Set         342        240         2         684        480          5         1.710      1.200
Subtotal                                                                       6,900     4,836                     1,710     1,200                                              8,610         6,036
Canp Equip-ent
Vet. Offices                           Set       1,350      1,010          2      2,700      2,020
Aninal Health Assistant                Set         700         500         2      1,400      1,000          5         3,500      2,500
Vaccinators                            Set         700         500        4       2, 800     2, 000         5         3,500      2, 500
Drivers                                Set         700        500         4       2.800      2,000          5         3.500      2,500
Subtotal                                                                       9,700      7,020                  10, 500     7,500                                             20, 200       14,520
Start-up Stocks 3/                                                              130,000   103,330                                                                                130,000       103,330
Total                                                                        609 116 347182                     463.610   2526865                   18720       12.960    1.091446          613,010
FE 567.
1/ Field Station:  office Store, Sleeping Quarten for Store Keeper - 180 m2 at Eth$ 100/m2 . Eth$ 18,000.
2/ Vehicles: Lorry has been included in central unit.
3/  DStgs                          Eth$100,000)  -  Eth$130,000
Hand sprays, dips & supplies Eth$ 30,000)
June 17, 1975



C~~~~~ ~     ~ = D <  0  I,                                               o   <    edOf
_            e n              n C               O0 '=O0   0          n0   0  0<0    Le 0<  -'  1    -o O              0          
0.                 H   to eo,         <00 0           1 .         00 n<   to p0.nD        o e       00 ,    O
_< oo               0        0   0   0     0             Doto  0                                      00   000 0     ooo  |
n            "                0               0>>O                                 0         0o  D                O0000
C M          D       |-  |              N  co    r .                       -              O 0  0'  -  0
00      00                                                                  V                                  '0 
g:0    ji         b z                               utj; j       o N      go                              O     :          Elg   o            o
#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                             toWL 8OONWN   n1      z  nWWW0F 
0n          00   0         og Wv             > OO080N            al0 0          OO                                       I    
o0            '0                                                                                         i  t               zY              C    t
no          0'  INt  zSrNWN         o                    t   > w wwo tHIo    w   '
Do   0t                                     00  0             <t| > D {8O O gO o o   0 o0 :O o l          ooo      1 
N O                   080               0r0N
toIo 0n                             H   to   to 0n  0<                     I HO   rD             
|>  a  S U   tob Io t           o to            o  0'  <to  to     o<0o0o o o      to      00O 
|W   0   WO     <<  0 0                            00          < W   O       O<       0
t  _o  _ ootoOto                0o _      0   0t
jO IF                  0   0<00                           to           to 1ooo8OO O O r>O            0    oo
00~~~~ 0                 \O<               nN_    o        oJ 
oO~    ~    0                                              O9     
'0_                     o o                                               mo  0 
o1                         <<<t            <             to                H <OoOotOt
Ho  a                                                               0   
o'0                *o-< I to  I             00 1                                     0             0<< 
00N 1l                      >                                            0   0   p< 0 <0<00to                       0
t7*0  '010                      <1<0'                  <               0'0 00 0 0 0<                          0       
00                        I o10             '<0                0           0        0         <0000                   0



ANNEX 15
Table 5
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Model   Fattening and Ba.ckgrounding Ranch (25.000 ha)
Investment Costs
(Eth$)
No. of                                                            Foreign
Investment Category       Units   Unit Cost    Year 1    Year 2                Total Cost   Exchange   %
Buildings
Houses - Manager             1       35,000       38,000       -                    35,000      28
Junior Staff       2       13,500        2t,000      -                    27,000       30
Subordinate Staff 8          1,900       1',200      -                    15,200       31
Office                       1        9,600        5,600       -                     9,600       29
Store                        1        4,800        ),800       -                     4,800       29
Subtotal                               9J 000                           91.000
Infrastructure
Perimeter Fencing           80 km    1,000        80,000       -                    80,000       70
Tracks and Firebreaks    132 km         250       33,000       -                    33,000
Loading Ramp                 1          600           600      -                       600
Night Enclosures            80           60        4,800       -                     4,800
Handling Yards       3       2        3,600        7,200       -                     7,200
Stock Ponds (7,500 m)        4       30,000      120,000       -                   120,000      30
-,oreho.e                    1      110,000      110,000       -                  110,000       41
8,ates                      14           250       3,500       -                     3,500
.roughs                    10            50          500       -                       500
Water Holes                 25         1,200       30,000      -                    30,000
Access Roads                10 km      1,000      10,000       -                    10,000
Subtotal                             399,600                           399,600
Vehicles and Equipment
4x4 LWB Pick Up              2       23,500       47,000       -                   47,000        7
Tractor 62 H.P.              1        23,000      23,000       -                    23,000      64
and Trailer
Implements                   1       10,000       10,000       -                    10,000      66
Dip                          2        19,440       19,440      -                    19,440       29
Cattle Scale                 1        3,000        3,000       -                    3,000       50
Radio Transceiver            1        6,ooo        6,000       -                     6,0o0      75
Fire Arms                   20           600       12,000      -                    12,000       85
Furniture Class II                    2,880        2,880       -                     2,880      72
Mules, Saddles & Bridles  10             310        3,100      -                     3,100       -
Miscellaneous                          6,ooo        6,000      -                     6,000       -
Subtotal                             132,420                           132,420
Incremental Working Capital-/                      260,000   160,017                424,017        105
Total                                867,020   160,017              1,047,037        27%
1/ Incremental working capital is defined as 1007% of steer purchase and other operating costs in year 1
and 38% in year 2.
Year 1      Year 2
Steer Purchase       172,800      288,000
Operating Cost        91,200      136,017
Total          264,000     L26,017
Incremental
Working Capital    264,000       1c0,017
July 10, 1975



ANNEX 15
TabTe 6
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Model   Fattening and Backgrounding Ranch (25,000 ha)
Income and Operating Costs
(Eth$)
---------------------- Years ----------------__-________
Category                  Unit Cost    1           2          3          4          5        6-20
TOTAL SALES
Sale of Steers-/                                   -      396,750    662,400   662,400   729,600   729,600
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries and Wages
Ranch Manager                          9,600      9,600     9,600       9,600      9,600     9,600      9,600
Assistant Ranch Manager                6,000     6,000      6,000       6,000.    6,000      6,000      6,000
Accountant/Clerk                       4,200     4,200      4,200       4,200     4,200      4,200      4,200
Drivers                                2,400     4,800      4,800       4,800     4,800      4,800      4,800
Foremen                                1,200      3,600     3,600       3,600      3,600     3,600      3,600
Herdsmen                                 720      3,600     7,200      14,400    14,400    14,400    14,400
Guards                                   720      2,160     2,160       2,160     2,160      2,160      2,160
Borehole Attendant                     1,440      1,440     1,440       1,440      1,440     1,440      1,440
Allowances                           3,000     3,000      3,000       3,000     3,000      3,000      3,000
Subtotal                            38,400    42,000      49,200    49,200    49,200    49,200
Vehicle and Other Running Costs
Pick Ups                               8,640    17,280    17,280       17,280    17,280    17,280    17,280
Tractor                                7,200      7,200     7,200       7,200      7,200     7,200      7,200
Boreholes                              1,440        720     1,440       1,440     1,440      1,440      1,440
Dip                                   14,400    13,200 2/ 28,800       28,800    28,800    28,800    28,800
Office                                 1,440      1,440     1,440       1,440     1,440      1,440      1,440
Vet. Drugs + Vacc.                     9,600      5,760     9,600       9,600      9,600     9,600      9,600
Minerals                              12,000      7,200    12,000      12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000
Miscellaneous                          6,000      6,000     6,000       6,000      6,000     6,000      6,000
Subtotal                            52,800    77,760      77,760    77.760    77.760    77.760
Maintenance 3/
Buildings                                          -        2,860       2,860      2,860     2,860      2,860
Other Facilities                                   -       11,180      11,180    11,180    11,180    11,420
Vehicles and Equipment                             _        2,217       2,217      2,217     2,217      2,217
Subtotal                                      16,257      16,257    16,257    16,257    16,257
Replacements (vehicles and other
equipment)                          21,000    26,583      26,583    26,583    26,583    26,583
Steer Purchases -/                                172,800   288,ooo    288,000   288,000   318,000   318,000
Total Operating Costs              285,000   450,600    457,800   457,800   487,800   487,800
Net Income                        L255,000)  (53,850)   204,600   204,600   241,800   2141,800
1/  2,300 head in year 1 and 3,840 head in years 2 and 3 would be sold at a price of
Eth$0.69/kg liveweight; 3,840 head in years 4 and 5 and thereafter would be sold at Eth$0.76/kg
liveweight.
2/  Dips will be used only part of the first year.
3/  2.5% of total cost of buildings, other infrastructure and 5% for vehicles and equipment
starting year 2.
4/  See Annex 7, Table 1.
July 10, 1975



ANNEX 15
Table 7
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVEL0OPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Feedlot Unit
Investment Costs
(Eth$)
No. of                                                                     < Foreign
Investment Category            Units      Unit Cost      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3     Total Cost      Exchange
Bui-Ldings
Houses - Manager                   1          35,000      35,000       -           -           35,000           28
Assistant Manager        1          13,500       13,500       -          -           13,500           30
Subtotal                                     48,500       -           -           48,500           28
Infrastructure
Perimeter Fencing                  1.6 km     2,000        3,200       -           -            3,200           50
Water Reservoir                    1          20,000      20,000       -           -           20,000           50
Cattle Yard                       12           5,000      20,000    40,000         -           60,000           20
Pit Silos                          4           3,000       6,000      6,000                    12,000           50
Handling Yards & Loading
Ramp                1           5,000          -       5,000        -            5,000           20
Access Roads                      4.5 km       6,000      27,000       -           -           27,000           -
Machinery Store                    1           5,OCO       5,000       -           -            5,000           40
Feed Mixing Plant                  1          20,0C0          -      20,000        -           20,000           50
Molasses Tank (60,000 Lit)         1          30,000         -       30,000        -           30,000           66
Office                             1         24,000       24,000       -           -           24,000           30
Elect. & Tel. Installation         1          10,000      10,000       -           -           10,000           40
Subtotal              -            -         115,200   101,000        -          216,200           34
Equipmlent and Vehicles
Platform Scale                     1         25,003       25,000       -           -          25,000            50
Cattle Scale                       1           3,000       3,000       -           -            3,000           50
Hay Mill                           1           5,000       5,000       -           -            5,000           7L
Roller Mill                        1           5,000       5,000       -           -            5,000
Manure Handling Equipment                    30,000         -        30,000        -          30,000           75
Tractor 95 H.P.                    3         31,00o       93,000       -           -           93,000           80
Tractor 66 H.P.                    2          17,000         -       34,000        -           34,000           65
Forage Harvester                   6         19,000       57,000    57,000         -         114,000            75
Forage Wagon                       9           6,000         -       54,000        -           54,000           66
Feeder Wagon                       2          19,00(l        -       38,000        -           38,000           75
ii Wheel Loader                    1         40,000i        -        40,000        -          40,000            75
Molasses Tanker                    1          85,000C        -       85,000        -           85,000           75
Lorry 5 Ton                        1          52,000      52,000                   -           52,000           87
Baler                              1           7,OOC         -        7,000        -            7,000           50
4 + 4 L.W.B. Pick-up               1         23,50C       23,500       -           -           23,500           75
Garage & Workshop                  1          15,00C      15,000       -           -           15,000           30
Subtotal                                     278,500   345,000        -          623,500           73
Investment Operating Costs I/                                 115,413   389,588                   505,000            9
Working Capital 2/                                               -          -       767,000       767,000            9
Total Cost                               557,613   835588    767000    2,160,200                30
1/ Investment Operating Costs are defined as those necessary to establish the income earning capacity of the feedlot.
These costs are therefore considered investment 2osts.
2/  Working capital is defined as 33% of operating costs and steer purchase in year 3.  (purchase of steer Eth$455,400,
operating costs Eth$311,600).
July 3, 1975



ELlIOPIA
ANNEX 15
RANGEIANDS DEVEWPMENT POJECT                                                         Table  8
Southern Rangelands
Feedlot Unit
Income and Operating Costs
(Eth$)
------------------------------- Years --------------------------------
Unit Cost       1           2              3            4            5            6-20
TOTAL SALES
Sale of Steers                                                          _           _          1,735,560   2,620,010   2,868,320    2,868,320
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries and Wages
Manager                                               12,000        12,000      12,000          12,000       12,000       12,000       12,000
Assistant Manager                                      9,000         9,000       9,000           9,000        9,000        9,000        9,000
Clerk                                                  4,200        4,200        4,200           4,200        4,200       4,200         4,200
Rerdsman                                               3,000         3,000       3,000           3,000        3,000        3,000        3,000
Store Keeper                                           4,200        4,200        4,200           4,200        4,200       4,200         4,200
Drivers                                                2,400-      14,400       24,000          24,000       24,000      24,000        24,000
Laborers                                                 720        5,040        5,040           5,040        5,040       5,040         5,040
Animal Health Assistant                                5,900        5,900        5,900           5,900        5,900       5,900         5,900
Senior Mechanic                                        7,000        7,000        7,000           7,000        7,000        7,000        7,000
Junior Mechanic                                       4,800         4,801)       4800            480          480         4,800         4,800
Subtotal                                  -         69,540      79,140          79,140        9,140       79,140       79,140
Social Security Contribution (6, of Salaries)              -          4,172       4,748           4,748        4,748        4,748         4,748
General Running Costs
Accounting Charges                                        -         10,000      20,000          40,000       40,000      40,000         40,000
Purchase of Maize                                         -                    233,000         233,000      233,000     233,000        233,000
Purchase of Other Feeds                                   -            -           -           188,700      188,700     188,700        188,700
Drugs and Vaccines                                        -            -           -            16,000       16,000       16,000        16,000
Water and Electricity                                                1,000       2.000          10,000       10,000       10.000         10.000
Subtotal                                  -        11,000       255,000        487,700      487,700     487,700        487,700
Vehicle Running Costs
4 a 4 L.W.B. Pick-Up                                  8,600         8,600        8,600          8,600         8,600       8,600          8,600
5 + Lorry                                            13,000         6,500        6,500         13,000        13,000      13,000         13,000
Molasses Tanker                                       28,800           -           -           28,800        28,000      28,800         28,000
Transport Services                                      -             -            -          251,250      228,100      228,100        228,100
Tractor (Feedlot Operations)                            -           5,600       10,000         10,000        10,000      10,000         10,000
Repairs                                                 -          10,000       10,000         40,000       40A 000      40,000         40.000
Subtotal                                -          30,700       35,100        351,650      328,500      328,500        328,500
Maintenance2/
Installations                                          -             -           6,600          6,600        6,600        6,600          6,600
Equipment                                               -            _           9,000         16,800        16,800      16,800         16,800
Subtotal                                -            -          15,600         23,400       23,400       23,400         23,400
Replacements (Equipment and Feedlot Vehicles)             -          49,300       89,620        122,142       122,442     122,442        122,442
Steer Purchases -1,380,000    1,380,000   1,520,000                                                                                    1,520,000
Total Operating Costs                   -         164,712      479,208      2,448, 780    2,425,930   2,565,930      2,565,930
Income                                                   -          (164,712)   (479,208)      (713,220)     194,170      302,390        302,390
1/  5,520 head of cattle would be sold at Eth50.95/kg liveweight in year  3 and 7,880 in year 4.  Thereafter they
wuld be sold at Eth$1.04/kg liveweight.
2/  2.5% p.a. of the total cost of installation and 57 of the cost of equipment starting year 2.
3/ See Annex 8, Table 1, prices have been increased from Eth$0.69/kg in years 3 and 4 to Eth$0.76 in year 5 and thereafter.
July 3, 1975



ANNEX 15
ETHIOPIA                                 Table  9
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Smallholder Fattening - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost            Year 1                  Year 1-5
Investment Category      Unit    Total         FE    No.   Total        FE       Total      FE
Housing and Office
Head of Department      No.    50,000    15,000    1   50,000    15,000
Office                  m2         240         72  200   48,000    14,400
Subtotal                                            98,000    29,400    98,000    29,400
Vehicles
4x4 LWB Station Wagon   No.    28,000    21,000    1   28,000    21,000
4 Cattle Transporter    No.   110,000    94,000    4  440,000   376,000
Subtotal                                          468,000   397,000   468,000   397,000
Equipment and Furniture
Office                   Set     5,000     3,500    1    5,000      3,500
Miscellaneous                    2,000                    2,000
Subtotal                                             7,000     3,500     7,000      3,500
Total                                              573,000   429,900   573,000   429,900
FE 75%
April 25, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Southern R.ngelandd
Smallholder Fattenin-g Rec--rent Cotos and Working CaPital Requirements
Unit                                  Year 1                              Yeno  2                              Year 3                              Year 4                              Year 5                      Year 1-5
Category            Coat              FE        No.       Total          FF         o          Total          FE       No.         Total          FE        No.         Total         FE       No.         Total          FE        Total          FE
Wages and Salaries
HNad of Dept.         70,000        49,000        1          70,000    49,000        1           70,000    49,000         1          70,000    49,000         1           70,000   49,000         1          70,000    49,000
Clark (Anat.)          4,200                      2           8,400       -          2            8,400       -          2            8,400       -           2            8,400    -             2           8,400       -
Driver                 2,400                      2           4,800       -          2            4,800       -          2            4,800       -           2            4,800    -             2           4,800
Total                                                   83,200    49,000                     83,200    49,000                    83,200    49,000                     83,200   49,000                    83,200    49,000        416,000   245,000
Pension Fond & PFot                                          4.992                                4,992                               4,992                                4.992                              4,992                   24.960
Allow-ance 1/
Vehicle Running Coat
Station Wagon          8,640         '.,560       1           8,640     6,560        1            8,640      6,560                    8,640      6,560                     e,640    6p,ad                     e,6no      o.56C
C1ttl  Transpo-ttrs                                         19,390    14,542                    23,030    17,272                    26,670    20,000                     30,310   22,732                     33,950    25,462
Subtotal                                                28,030    21,102                     31,670    23,832                    35,310    26,560                    38,950   29,292                     42,590    32,022        176,550   132,808
Othor Running Coat
Office                 2,000                                  2,000                               2,000                               2,.000                               2,000                               2,000                  10,000
Maintenance2/
Ho... ond OWfic-                                                                                  2,450        612                    2,450        612                     2,450       612                    2,450        612         9,800      2,448
Incre,ental Wnrking Capi-l 3-                                245,000                               70,000                              70,000                               70,000                             70,000                  525,000
Grand Total                                            363,222    70,102                   194,312    73,444                    197,952     76,172                  201,592   78,904                    205,232    81,634    11 2L0   380,216
1/ A sun of 67, 0  total salaries and wagon wut takon to cover futuro  pension.commtm-ente and hard.hip pant allowanes for certain categonies of staff.
2/  Honora and boilding. 2.57, of original invest-nt  -ost st-ting your 2.
3/ Working capital required for providing tredit to smallhold-r.
July 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RAN0ELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Eouthers Rasselends
RoadtI - GaPitaI C06t"
Colt  Cost                      ToYt 1                              YDor 2                              Year 3                              Year 4                               year 5                              Year 1-5
I-nLvest=t Cotogory         Unit      Total              FE      No.      TtFotal                                               F N.  Total  F5 N..  Total          PR        )ia.      TatE al          P0       j         TJal             FE         Total               FE
Eqoip-ent
Doap Trook (4x4)          No.        52.0           42.0         1       52.0           42.0
Traitor (.5 0.P.)
Trai..r                 No.        24.0           15.6        6       144.0          93.6
Piokop Vehicle (4o4)    No.          23.5           17.5         5      117.5          87.5
Wtor Tr-ilor
(0,000 loiers)         No.         2.2             1.8        5        11.0           9.0
BOlldoa-r 75 H.P.
with tipper             No.       100.0           83.0         1      100.0          83.0
Motor Grader 125 0.P.   No.         142.0          125.0         1      142.0          125.0
Eolne - Rubber
tirod-tos-d            No.        48.0            38.0        1        48.0          38.0
Roller - Grid - Too..d   No.         4t.0           30.0         0       41.0          30.0
Lobritatitn Uitt
(Treil-r ooo.Ld)        No.         10.0            8.0        1        10.0           8.0
Pimps 1N Do.                          1.6            1.0        2         3.2           2.0
Subtotal                                                         668.7          518.1                                                                                                                                                          668.7            518.1
Hierllooeoos
Survey Equipmeot          Srt         8.5            6.0        1         8.5           6.0
Water/FPol Dross          No.         0.02           0.015    70          1.4            1.0
CGmp Equipment           S8u           -              -            -    163.6         114.5
Whoee                     No.         0.07           0.04      50         3.5           2.0
CGoh Bot                 N..          0.5            0.4        4         2.0           1.6
Adding MthiOnes           No.         0.95           0.8        6         5.7           4.8
Hood Tools 2/             Yeotr      10.0            1.0                 10.0            7.0                 10.0            7.0                  10.0           7.0                  10.0           7.0                  10.0            7.0
Erpandahble               K.toslsN  Em  0.2          0.1      200        40.0          20.0        450       95.0          45.0         450       90.0          45.0        450       90.0          45.0        450       90.0           45,0
Mis.ellaseI os            -            -               -                 28.0           19.6
SLbhitol                                                         262.7          176.5                 100.0          52.0                 100.0          52.0                 100.0          52.0                  100.0          52.0         662.7            384.5
Grand Tota1                                                       931.4         694.6                 100.0          52.0                 100.0          52.0                 100.0          52.0                  100.0          52.0       1,331.0            902.6 FE 67.8%
1/  To Gill wota  tirilora.
2/  At Eth$16.0 par  -0  y-o.
3/  Isilodos itnist, te9ofotioniot, 7ibitt,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6
July' 3, 1905-



ANNEX 15
Table 12
23
to                                          I            4141
C                           .'4CCCC'                    551
'nInCa'  itton  itt       .oIa'  .01
o a  aCa'CICCI  a'  a'    a'400444a'CI  In              oNE  NE
aO   a' .0cfloOa'CIa'a'    a'InVt 440Ni0In1  .0         C41  a'I tO
0.4-    0t4In.."0j                   a'  Inoll  -       4.01  'CI  Ct
044                             a'      Oh         a'
a'                          a'40a'a'a'a'a'I  a'
a'                                         *1
212
0 a  'aCa'OJCC   C   ItO    a'a'C444a'CI  ItO            Ca'  a'
a.'                                           I
frEo    In4tIt.0'a   a'a'0I4.0.0I0Ina'lIn                a'a'  C   -
ti  4                           a'             -   a'
0  -a'a''aa'C               - 'aa'--a'                                           Ia
0                           04000tOCa''ttl  0           InlIni
a'                                                        414
a'a'a'Ca'a'a'a'1 a'
a'                                 00
.0Ina'CInC              - .0In.,,0a'                                          0
a
a'                                          I.           tla'.J
l.a  .0Oa'OOOC   C   tO    a'a'0444a'C   at                   a']  a'1
a.'              I                            I
00   a' 'att.0a'CIa'a'a',flt14.'0a'.OIni..,                   ''I
0.10    In4000CI  a'a'-44.-I.-Ia'a',.-.                       OtI Cm
4                           a'              * '                a
0  .0a'a'aa'O              a'.aa'.0.0a'                                         a
-                           a'a'044a'ttOa'  -                    '1
l.a   a'C.aCCC    Ca'    -'0'0In01a'4.0I01   a'                            0       a'
00   4C0Ina'D   a'a'    '0a'a'a'Ca'  '0
COIn          -
*                          In CInInCIna'                                0        4,
0                                                                                a
-   a'a'ana'C               COOa'CCa'CC                                  Li      I
-   C                                                          0       0  0
C                             CCOCO
41
-I  -                                    0         4-1
40  CO      0                        0             0
an        0                     l.a   oo         4,'ol.    l.a'I  0  .00  .0  'a  co. 4,  a a  -0' 00.    00   000    004,0   nO    0   0   00   0  0.  a'
CaCco,                I    4,004   00..'   00    I.
o.4,a--         4    000       4,   '0   a   am.'  ,0
4,  Oa.ol.0              I    000000000            U  .00
00   C4,'0.CCO'CC           0  AC
'000000                   l.,-OOOOaO           0   a
'a                        Cit..!



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Training and Information - Capital Costs
(Eth$ )
Unit Coat                Year I                       Year 2          _            Year 3                        Year 4                            Year 1-5
Investment Category                   Units         Total       FE       No.    Total        FE        No.    Total       FE       No.    Total        FE        No.    Total        FE                Total       FE
Housing and other Buildings
Head of Department                   No.          50,000    15,000      1      50,000    15,000
Senior Staff                                      35,000    10,000      2      35,000    10,000
Subordinate Staff                    "             1,900        600     2       3,800      1,200
Training Center                      a               180         60   120      21,600      7,200
Store Office                         "             4,000      1,200     1       4,000      1,200
Subtotal                                                                 114,400    34,600                                                                                                      114,400    34,600
Infrastructure
Fencing                             Km.            1,200        840    20      24,000    16,800
Borehole w/pump                     No.          100,000    80,000      1    100,000    80,000
Fire breaks                          Km.             120               10       1,200
Night Enclosures                    No.              150                6         900
Gates                                "3n                        252     8       2,880      2,0an
Crush                                              1,920        576     1       1,920        576
Loading Ramp                                         600        -       1         600        -
Dip                                                9,600      2,880     1       9,600      2,880
Subtotal                                                                 141,100   102,272                                                                                                     141,100   102,272
Vehicles
Mobile Center Lorry                  No.          57,000    45,600      1                             1     57,200    45,600
4x4 LWB Station Wagon                             28,000    21,000      1      28,000    21,000
4x4 LWB Pickup                                    23,500    17,500      1      23,500    17,500
Tractor & Implements                "             27,000    18,900      1      27,000    18,900
Subtotal                                                                  78,500    57,400             57,000    45,600                                                                        135,500   103,000
Equipment and Furniture
Mobile Center                       No.           21,600    14,400      1      21,600    14,400
Training Center                     "             28,800    20,400      1      28,800    20,400
Camping Class I                     Set            1,350     1,010      1       1,350     1,010
Camping Class II                                     700       500      4      2,800      2,000
Furniture Office Class I                           1,000       700      1      1,000        700
Furniture Office Class II                            350       250      1         350       250
Furniture Training Center                         1,440      1,008      1      1,440      1,008
Furniture Mobile Center                            1,800     1,260      1      1,800      1,260
Subtotal                                                                  59.140    41,028                                                                                                     59,140    41,028
Fellowships & Training                                                        57,000    51,000             57,00    51,000              57,000    51,000             30,000    28,000             201,000   181,000
Purchase of Livestock                 No.             200                                            200     40,000                                                                                  40,000
Total                                                                    4501140   286,300             1     54,2 00   96,600       57,000    51,000             300    28,000                           461,900
FE 67%
j/ Training and demonstration herd - 200 head.
June 30, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOFMIET PROJECT
Southern Ranaglande
Training and Inforrtion Ra- R.urre    Caste
(Eth$)
Unit                              Year 1                             Year 2                            Yara 3                             Year 4                             Year 5                          Year 1-5
catagary                       Cant             E                Tain1            FE        Na.     Tatal            FE       Na.      Tatal EN. TOat1                                    FE        Na.     Total            FE _aTotl                   FE
Wagna and Sala-ina
Hand of Depa-taent                     10,800                     1      10,800                     1       10,800                     1      10,800                      1      10,800                      1      10,800
Sectiaon  esd                           7,200                     1       7,200                     1        7,200                     1       7,200                      1       7,200                      1       7,200
R-nch Manager                          9,600                      1       9,600                     1        9,600                     1       9,600                      1       9,600                      1       9,600
Drivae-                                 2,400                     2       4,800                     3        7,200                     3       7,200                      3       7,200                      3       7,200
NH-demen/G-ards                           720                     5       3,600                     5        3,600                     5       3,600                      5       3,600                      5       3,600
Cle-k/An-t-nt                           4,200                     1       4,200                     1        4,200                     1       4,200                      1       4,200                      1       4,200
Mobils Cente- ARA                       5,900                     1       5,900                     1        5,900                     1       5,900                      1       5,900                      1       5,900
Subtatel                                                             46 100                            48,500                             48,500                             48,500                             48,500                   240,100
Per Dim1                       2/      8,650                              8,650                             8,650                              8,650                              8,650                              8,650
Psnsiaa Fand & Post Alla.gan..-                                           2,760                              2,910                             2,910                              2,910                              2,910
Sabtatal                                                             11,410                            11,560                             11,560                             11,560                             11,560                    5765'0
Vehicle Ranning Caetn
4x4 Lorry S Ton                       12,960        9,720                                           1       12,960       9,720                12,960        9,720                12,960        9,720                12,960        9,720
4x4 LWB Statian Wagan &
4a4 LWB Pickap                         8,640        6,480         2      17,280       12,960        2       17,280      12,960                17,280       12,960                17,280       12,960                17,280       12,960
Gneretor HabilG Centn                   1,200         900                                           1        1,200         900                 1,200          900                 1,200          900                 1,200          900
Trectar                                 7,200       5,400         1       7,200        5,400        1        7,200       5,400                 7,200        5,400                 7,200        5,400                 7,200        5,400
Snbiala1                                                             24,480      18,360                38,640       2S,980                38,640      28,960                 3e0.40      20,980                 3e,e9e      2e,980       179,040       134,280
Other Ran.nig Costa
Ladginog fan Trainne.                   7,200                             7,200                              7,200                             7,200                              7,200                              7,200
Field Dayn                              6,000                             6,000                             6,000                              6,000                              6,000                              6,000
Tapes, Slidea, Films                    1,200         840                 1,200          840                 1,200         840                 1,200          840                 1,200          840                 1,200          840
Banahale                                1,440         720                 1,440          720                 1,440         720                 1,440          720                 1.440          720                 1,440          720
Dipping                                   720         600                   720          600                   720         600                   720          600                   720          600                   720          600
Veterin-ry Servicaa                       720         600                   720          600                   720         600                   720          600                   720          600                   720          600
biscellaneous                          12,000       8,400                12,000        8,400                12,000       8,400                12,000        8,400                12,000        8,400                12,000        8,400
Sabtatal                                                             23,880      11,160                23,880       11,160                23,880       11,160                23,880      11,160                 23,880      11,160       119,400        55,800
Haintenanne 3/
Hoaes., Building and
Infres-rat-t-                                                                                             6,375        1,594                 6,375        1,594                 6,375        1,594                 6,375        1,594
Equipmnt. and F-nit-re                                                                                       2,957         739                 2,957          739                 2,957          739                 2,957          739
Sbtatel                                                                                                9,332        2,333                 9,332        2,333                 9.332        2,333                 9,332        2,333       37.328         9,332
r.tam                                                               l05870       29,520               131,912       42,473               131,912      42,473                131,912      42,473                131,912      42,473       633,318       199,412 312
8elna                                                                     3,000                             4,800                             18,500                             14,750                             18,000                    59,050
Ttal                                                                102,870                           127112                             113,412                            1196162                            113,912                   574,468
1/ Hand of Depart-nt  100 dayn at Eth$ 20 pet day = Eth$2,000
Sentian HaNd          50            , 16  "       =  "    800
ARA                  250               I9      " -      2,230
3 Dnivarn           200   "'"           6  "      =     3,600
8,650
2/ A sun of 6% of total euluries and wagee wee taken        -- raven fntern pensian commitnenta and hardahip pFst allfa-nae   n tent rain categari-s af staff
3/ foines and baildinga 2.5% of ariginel invest-nt stunting yeer 2. Funit-re and eqaip-ent 5E of ariginal invesatent -tt starting y-er 2.
Jaly 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Trials and Studies - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Investment                               Unit Cost                       Year 1                              Year 2                              Year 3                                Year 1-5
Category                   Unit      Total            FE        No.      Total            FE        No.      Total             FE       No.      Total             FE        No.       Total              FE
Housing
Senior Staff              No.     35,000        10,000         1       35,000       10,000
Junior Staff              No.      13,500        4,000         2       94,500       28,000
Subtotal                                                         129,500       38,000                                                                                          129,500         38,000
Vehicles
4x4 Lorry 5 Ton           No.      52,000       42,000         1       52,000       42,000
4x4 LWB Pickups           No.      23,500       17,500         2       47,000       35,000
Trailer                   No.       6,000        4,000         2       12,000        8,000
Subtotal                                                         111,000       85,000                                                                                          111,000         85,000
Equipment and Furniture
Calculator                No.         950          800         2        1,900        1,800
Livestock Scales          No.       3,000        1,500         1        3,000        1,500
Pumping Equipment         No.       1,600        1,000         1        1,600        1,000
Camping Class I           Set       1,350        1,010         1        1,350        1,010
Camping Class II          Set         700          500         7        4,900        3,500
Fencing Trials            Km       1,200           360                                            2        2,400           720
Furniture Off. Class I              1,000          700         1        1,000          700
Furniture Off. Class II               350          250         3        1,050          750
Miscellaneous                       1,200          840                  1,200          840
Subtotal                                                          16,000       11,100                   2,400          720                                                      18,400         11,820
Other Items
Aerial Census                      64,800       64,800                                                                                         64,800       64,800                   64,800        64,800
Total                                                            256,500      134,100                   2,400          720                 64,800       64,800                 323,700        199,620 62%
April 25, 1975
UM,



MTHOPlA
RANRGLANDS DOYEIIOFMET PROJECT
Southern Ranelands
Trials and Studios - Recurrent Costs
(Eth$)
Unit                                ye.t I                             your 2Year 3                                                         Year 4                             Ys
Ceatg.ry                       Coot               FE       No.     Total            FE       No.      Total            FE       No.      Total           FE        No.     Totel            FE        F0.     Total            FE        T.W              F
Wagoe and Suluri.e
Dep-rttsent Read                     10,800                       1       10,800                     1       10,800                     1      10,800                     1       10,800                     1      10,800
Sucinlogiut                           7,900                       1       7,900                     1         7,900                     1       7,900                     1       7,900                      1       7,900
3eni.u  Teoholoi-ns                   G,600                       2      13,200                      2       13,200                     2      13,200                     2       13,200                     2      13,200
Permanent Assi.tants                  3,600                       4      14,400                     4        14,400                     4      14,400                     4       14,400                     4      14,400
Driv-rs                               2,400                       3        7,200                    3         7,200                     3       7,200                     3        7,200                     3       7,200
Guards                                  900           1/          3        2,700                     3        2,700                     3       2,700                     3        2,700                     3       2,700
Tvmpo-aty Ean-er.to.-                   350 m/.h-               120      42,000                   120        42,000                   120      42,000                   120       42,000                   120      42,000
Subtntal                                                             98_20                              98,200                             98.200                            98,200                             98,200                    491,000
For Dim-                                                                 12,900                              12,900                            12,900                             12.900                            122900
Pen.ioo Food d P70t Allovn-es3/                                         52892                                5,892                             5,892                            53892                               5,892
Sniutlu1                                                             13,792                              18_792                            18,792                            18.792                             18,792                     93,960
Vohicle Running C-sts 4                30,240         22,860                30,242      22,665                 30,240      22,665                30,240       22,6G5                30.242      27,66;                 ;0,240      i2,66,                      i3.Sh  ud,05
Other Rurnfns Costs
Test Pumping                          2,400          1,200                 2,400       1,200                  2,400       1,200                 2,400        1,200                 2,400       1,200                 2,400        1,200
Trensport/Eu.-eratur-                    75                     120        9,000                              9,000                             9,00G                              9,000                             9,000
subtotal                                                             11,400        1,200                11,400        1,200                11,400       1,200                 11,400       1,200                11.400        1,200        57,000        6.000
Maintenan-e 5/
Hunning                                                                                                       3,237         809                 3,237          009                 3.237         809                 3,237          809
Equipeout and Fur-iture                                                                                         800         200                   800          200                   800         200                   800          200
Soiubtol                                                                                                 4,037        1,009                 4,037       1,009                 4.037        1,009                 4,037        1,009        16.148        4,036
Tot01                                                               158,632       23,865                162,669      24,874               162,669      24,874                162,669      24,874               162,669       24,874       809,308      123,361
FE 100
I/  (i-Oindiag field .l1o1-o.e.).
/ Senior E-oeneist            100 days at Eth$20 per day   Eth$2,000
Agriculture  -conoeist     100              16               1,600
2 Senior Technicians      100               9                1,8000
4 Permanen.t Assistant3    10               8          =     4,800
3 Drives                  150               6                2= 700
3/ A s.- of 6% of ttotal slries ond weges veo  Luken to rover future pension  o=.itntnis and                                                                                                                                                                     n
hardship Postal ov.anc.s for certain categories of  otaff.
4/ 1 4 u 4 Lorry 5 tee 12,960
2 4 X 4 LIW         17,260
5/ Hoosing and other buildigny  2.57, of original ievest-ent startieg yor 2. Furniture erd eqoip-n-
5% Of orlftoal inveetnentout otarieg  year 2.
July 1, 1972



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Project Administration - Capital Costs
_Eth.
Investment                                   Unit Cost                    Year 1                              Year 2                           Year 1- '
Category                  Unit         Total            FE        No.      Total            FE       No.      Total            FE         Total            FE
Housing and Other
Buildin.g
Project Manager and
Head of Departments      No.         50,000       15,000          3    150,000       45,000
Senior Staff             No.         35,000       10,000          4    140,000       40,000
Office Block             m2             240           72      1,100    264,000       79,200
Garage                   m2             120           36        125     15,000        4,500
Guest and Club House                 72,000       24,000                72,000       24,000
Stores                   m2             156           48        400     62,400       19,200
Subtotal                                                           703,400      211,900                                           703,400      211,900
Architect Fees (10%)-                                                   70,340       21,190                                             70,340      .21,190
Infrastructure
Perimeter Fencing        Ian          2,000        1,000          4      8,000        4,000
Installation of
Utilities                          30,000       15,000                30,000       15,000
Access rmads             Km          iu,o0o        3,:00          2     20,000        6,600
Subtotal                                                            58,uoO       25,600                                            58,000       25,600
Vehicles
4x4 LWB Station Wagon   No.          28,000       21,000          2     56,000       42,000
4x4 LWB Pickup           No.         23,500       17,500          1     23,500       17,500
4x4 Lorry 5 Ton          No.         52,000       42,000          1     52,000       42,000
Breakdown Lorry          No.         62,000       49,000          1     62,000       49,000
Subtotal                                                           193,500      150,500                                           193,300      150,500
Equipment
Tools for Garage         Set         18,000       12,600          1     18,000       12,000
Radio Transceiver        No.          6,000        4,500          2     12,000        9,000
Office Equipment         Set         22,000       15,400          1     22,000       15,400
Shelving for Store       Set         12,000        8,400          1     12,000        8,400
Furniture Class I        Set          1,000          700          2      2,000        1,400
Office Furniture C. I   Set           1,000          700          3      3,000        2,100
Off. Furniture C. II    Set             350          250          6      2,100        1,500
Camp Equip. C. I         Set          1,350        1,010          3      4,050        3,030
Camp Equip. C. II        Set            700          500          5      3,500        2,500
Stock and Spare parts   Set          10,000       9,000                 10,000        9,000
Subtotal                                                            88,650       64,330                                            88,650       64,330
Total                                                            1,113,890                                                                     4735520   FE 42.
1/ This sum can also be used for employing LMB's own design staff.
July 3, 1975



0    K'    1010                0            0   0                              0
N    o      <o                 N            N                                  N
0 -    0400a0 0 0'   NI"N    000000NN000 '0
N 0    ,ONOO N -    NON    aNN  NON 0000400  0
-   0     <N'            NN  a    NOONO  1                NNN.NN'NONNONO
NJ 0  ONIN  -                  4    ON'," NOCON'  NO.0'-"
Na oo 0000000 NN'NNONNO
'000    N oNNONO  C    N N ONNON  ONON NO  NON  NO
N'  N N-ON'  ONON   NON   003  g       NCONNa40NfloN
ON   ON   ON  ONNONI N                         40 NOO
F                               L
NaN' 000000  N'              0 ONON
NO     N          N  NN' ION  N'00 '0 N             N N '1
NaN.      NNN  N 40              0 ON   N NOON'. N N    O'  N  ONOON'
NC                N               N  0      ON o;g  o o  o3  oo  K
N                                             0
0,40 NONO0N
0NN
NON  N'N 00.
3      3                        aNN'    40
NO 0' 'NON          40          .000040                04000404004000040    00
IN    ON           40 0        00000          0N'0   00040N 400000N4 000    Na
aN     N             0 0        004000    0    000    00000000000000
0<       N           0 0        00000    0    @00    00000000000000
33
a 40! 0 - N
a 0100000           0 0'                  0                                  '0
*              I             10              I       I                        HO
'o'-o40   40 [" 000    .0404000.040000040    ON
LLNLL    : c VOL K. LVO0OOVOLVONOUO    NON
00000    000N'40004000N0 4004000000    N'!
00000    0 0 000 Ia 00000000000000           40
I
4000000000000400   I?
LI00          o"40        4010      4040    040o40400    HO          >     ON
1010400          '0040040    40L000000404000000 40000040    ON        o     40
0 000 F. 000000000.00000
,o,40400         00 00    0'0N0000  040040004004000000    NO          3.    N
00000    L                                   aN
0    0                0                                  N'
0 0                   0                                  0
O     0
3     '0
I   4004000000  00
000040      lo      0 040400000.040000040    ON
OLWO          0 000 10 00000000000000    40
00000    000000040040004004000000            NO
00000  0-ON
0   0   0               0                                  NI
0   0   0   0             0                                  ON
00400000000404000   I?
404040    40 0     Oooo'-oooo               00
'NOOOO    40 0 000 0 N0'4000O0'N 00NJ0040    ON
Io K        K gggg   Ig L gg    00000000000000    40
NOOONN    00040400  04000000000'oOOO    Nfl
I                        00
[N 00000    04000000  00000000 O0NJNNNNN'   NS
OCO   :  JO : JOLLLLZLLZ
00 00    000000000 00NJ0000000 00    *O
00 00    0 0 000 0 00000000000000
j
glajqNL      jN                        [SO
SIXSNY    NO



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
LMB Headquarters Staff - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost                      Year 1                              Year 2                             Year 1-5
Investment Category             Unit         Total             FE       No.      Total             FE       No.      Total             FE         Total             FE
Vehicles
4x4 LWB Station Wagon             No.          28,000       21,000         2      56,000       42,000
4x4 Lorry 5 Ton                   No.          52,000      42,000          1       52,000      42,000
Runabout                          No.           9,500        5,500         1        9,500        5,500
Subtotal                                                                     117,500       89,500                                             117,500       89,500
Equipment and Furniture
Furniture Class I                 Set           1,000          200        10      10,000         7,000
Furniture Class II                 Set            350          250         7        2,450        1,750
Camp Equipment Class I            Set           1,350        1,010         6       8,100        6,060
Camp Equipment Class II           Set             700          500         4        2,800        2,000
Office Equipment                   Set         10,000        7,000         1       10,000        7,000
Radio Transceiver I!              Set          12,000        9,000         1       12,000        9,000
Audio-visual Equipment 2/          Set         10,000        7,000         1       10,000        7,000
Subtotal                                                                      55,350       39,810                                              55,300       39,810
Diagnostic Laboratory                         700,000      210,000                700,000      210,000                                            700,000       210,000
at Debre Zeit
Livestock Project Preparation                100,000        30,000                100,000       30,000                                            100,000       30,000
Total                                                                        972,850      369,310                                             972,850      369.310
Costs Attributable to the       3/                                               321,040      121,872                                             321,040      121,872
Southern Rangelands Project -
1/  Central Station for Project network.
2/  Film equipment was provided by the IBRD 4th Education Project.  Funds included in the Project would cover supply of films and                     
production costs as well as other audio-visual meterial.                                                                                                            t 
3/  One third of the capital costs are being charged to each of the three sub-projects.
July 3, 1975



o ~          ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ esl 20 e 
o                              ,,,0 
01    LI                                  g            
00                                  0                     000    0           00   0           0.     S.   0
0000.4   o.                                                                  00   0o_o
4~ ~<. 00                         0
00                                 0 S'                           
008  80OSo                                               a                  O   ...               
-~-~ 
000         00 00 00                _    0_    0  t>w  
880  008                                 0SS 0 0                        0         00     0a     8 8   8
.4,4~~~~~~~e  0d                                  .4 __                                        0 .
o o0 0 0 004,,                          o0   ,4      0         04    _            00    0 o        4 o      
r0    0  0   0    0    0     0    0            e       i        0        0         0 0   0          0o<r 
1.    Io  o oo]f                                    f                o                  oo             e e 
.4 |s0.          0 0 0 0           <                                      0  .4 1r   00  01     oo    Rr .je
00                                                        00                 00;.    b ano H'ov
00                                                       .40,                00    He                           
0~   ~        '                                                        0                            4RR < H 1   ~
oN0      > S       0                              O                                          0  4       40f
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W p v                        .
01    44 888        888    88 8             84 81                                                      4 8     8 | 1  10
1 >    R _<  o     Z 0^ w       <   N_      l       . 00      0   0       .  R          N        0  0           C       0
814 080                                       0 0          01-     0          8)                                     V 4     0
.4R               4.4                             'R                                                                   <H    0 . ~
V   1  8 08 8 o8 8 08 8 8 8N N8 ~~~~~~   ~         ~       ~~~~~         ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~00 N8 8  8       880 f
O                                                       Io                                                    VI   
ol       00 c  o044   e a                                 zj               <       n 0        Iv        >    .y          n  
-         0         Cno+:SI~    0.<00  4.4      c      .44            .4   0ov<>       0   0            wo
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                            0104



I_~~~~0    o   aa  40,0,a0-  ,  0 0,0n0e,                                0,0,          0         -   -   0)   o             ANE  15
0        ,      )O     4')0,        -'Y      s 0,0   _0")oW.ove UO0,0             O           WI-           oot 
.0           -              0_                    0,          _c  _,s   4      -                         A   W,0,
>       -   0, N W.N0.,                    0,0 4 O.    ,0,O0,.0 )   l _   __IN  1:        0,             4 _       N t O    1   0,
00040,,,0            4'        ON    0,,,,,,,0                      N00 I,  0,               0,  O,   4    
0,             0,        0,, 000   0, 0,  N                       0,  0,  0,          0 4      0,   0,o
0,      ON        0,0,40,440,0,                   0,  0,  0,          0,  0,  0,   N O 4   o   O 
0                                      0,           0,   ON   00                  0   N   0,         N    0,  0,   0,2
Hol~~~                               N    00               0,         0,,,00 0WN   a  -     e P44S4            OO,                            NO
-    aoo       N0,            0         0,0       0,0,0,,0000                      ,   0,  4          0,  0,  0    0,
0       _         0,0 ND                    00, w,4,40 _, O,  0,                                         0, 4s _,   0,lwrNm 
0  N       0,           0,       0,           0,0          I             0,        0~~,    ,   0   _,
I,         0,       4    >         0,        0,o 00,0,,0,0            0           a,    ,  I  11          0,   0,  0
_,                             4 _orRo.'     0,    0a,o wo  , R g , ,             0,  4    0,         0,       o
0                                                                          0,                       0,a<Q  0__< < ,-,   0,   0
O ~   ~    ~     o            0,0,      00,0,D       4          40,       0,,,00                     00, a      ,01           0,   020      0, I
<  0f  0   0,                                      0, o  I              -IX                       0,                         0,Q
a:00,      0P>P0           0,        0,40k,0,0,0,0,0,0                     0,0,0,40,                00, 



ETHIOPIA
RA'dGEIANDS DEVELOPwMET PROJECT
Southern eangelends
9 -o- - t,(.f TPret Costs 1/
Invectment Category                                 Local       FE        Ttal       Locl        PR        Total      Local                   tF Local                                    ocal       E        ToteE       Loilcal  l-S  -    --
Capital Costs
Range Yanagenent                                             68         86        154        154        123        277         87         38       125                    -           -           -          -         -         309        247         556
Veterinary Services                                         031        174        305        236       300        536         Ill        140        251                   -           -           -          -         -         478        614       1,092
Ranches                                                     191        120        311       303        240        623         383       '40        621        383         240       623         192        120        312      1,332        860       2,482
Feedlot                                                      83        124        219       2'1        414        665           -        -           -           -       -            -                      -         -         346        538         884
8mallholder FPttaning                                        72        215        287        72        215        287           -        -          -                       -        -            -          .         -         143        430         573
Soads                                                      018         348        466       142        374        516          72        78        150          48         52       100          48         52        100        428        904       1,332
Training                                                     82        143        225        140       239        379           6        51          57          2         28        30           -          -         -         230        461         891
Ttials  and StCdieo                                          61         67        128         62         69       131           -        65         65           -       . .          -           -                    -         123        201         324
Project Adniniatr-tioa                                      320        237        557       320        237        557           -           -          -       -          -:         -                       -         -          4         474       1,114
LY8 Ileadqsarlere Staff                                     100         61        161       100         61    _161                      _         _  -                            _                          _ -200                         122         322
Sub-total                                           1.238      1.575      2,813      1,860      2,272      4,132        658        :12      1,270        433        320        733        240        172        412      4,429      4,951       9,380
Investnent operatiag Casts
Ranga lleaag8erent                                           71         52        123        133         85        218        147         87        234        152         87        239        152         87        239        655        398      1,053
Veterinary Services                                         109         54        163        358        142        500        464        165        629       466         170        636        456        121        577      1,853        652      2,505
Ranches                                                       -          -
Feedlot                                                      58         12         70        363         26        389          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -        421          38       459
Smliholder Fatte=ing                                        2         43         72        5S          73        124         52         76        128         53         79        132         53         82        135        238        353        391
Roads                                                       166         49        215        607        160        767        680        163        843        754        166        920        827        169        996      3,034         707     3,741
Treining                                                     45         18         63         85         42        127         71         42        113         77         42        119         72         42        114        350         186       536
Ttials and Studies                                           83         15         98        138         25        163        138         25        163        138         25        163        138         25        163        635         115        750
Ero3ecc Adtinictratlon                                      166         21        187        287         40        327        287         40        327        287         40        327        287         40        327      1,314        181      1,495
06 HRadqna,rter.  Staff                                      44         28         72         72         46        118         72         46        118         72         46        128         72         46        118        332        212        544
Water Dewlopma=t                                         _          _          _             275        300        575        275        300        575        275        300        372        273        300        575      1,100      1200       2.300
Sob-total                                             771        293      1 064      2.369        939      3.308      2,186        944      3.130      2.274        95       3229       2.332        912      3,244      9.932      4042    13.974
Wsrkin Canital
8mallholder Fattning                                          -          -          -        245          -        245        140          -        140         70                    70         70                    70        523           -        525
F..dlot                             -          -                                                   69~~~~~~~~~-    49  68  767        -          --                     -          -          -        699         68        767
8aachcs                                                      80         11         21        385         39        424        385         39        424        385         39        424        305         34        339      1.534         162     1.696
bub-total                                               80         11         91        630         39        669     1_224        107      1.331        455          39       494         375         34        403      2.758        230      2,988
Total (B..c Coot)                                         2,089      1,879      3,918      4,859      3,250      8,109      4,068      1,663      5,731      3,162      1,314      4,476      2,947      1,118      4,068     17,119       9,223     26,342
Olsyscnal Contingencies (107.)                              209        104         l72    _'-86 6        735       911        4f7        166         73        311        131    _  448         295        112        406        1.712       927     7.634
Rub-tOtal                                           2.298       2.067     4.365      5,345      3.575      8.920      4_475      1.829      6.304      3_47S      1.443    4.924        3.242       1.230      4_472    18,831      10.145    28.976
Price Contingencecn (107)                                   229        207        436      1,149        768      1.917      1.5 1        621      2.142      1,635        679      2,313      1,977        750      2,727      6.518    3.,026        9.544
GRANDp TOTAL                                   _527    2_.274    =401           6 494      4.343    10.837       5,996      2.450      8 44      5.,113      2.124      7.237      5.219      1.982       7.199    25,349    13.171       30.520
1/  On the .s...ptioc that it would cot be  .ossible fie Project  -anogooc-t to carry out the I ere o  progr-  -schodled  -or year I as show-  to the Total Inve-t-eet Coast Table, a nodified ipl-entatio-
hednle has beee prepared and Total Coste revised accordingly.  In effect, arc half  f thc opadlt-s scheduled to he cede ir Year 1 have been eos-d to year 2, and siiler adjusteeta made for
years 2, 3 and 4.  It is as.eond that aey delays iC  -eplecodtfoe cacli be eado  p ie year 9 and that the Project  -old be co-pletad on sehedols.
November 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JijiRga
Range ManaRement - Capital Coats
(Eth$)
I-e.t-t cat.g-y                     ~~~~~Unit Cost                   Year 1                             Year 2                              Year 3                             Year 4                             Year 1-5
Investment Category               Unit        Total             FE       No.      Total            FE       N        Total            FE        No.     Total             FE       Lo.      Total            FE         Total        -5
Hou s ing
Read of Department                   No.          50,000       15,OEO         1      50 000       15,000
Senio- Staff                                      35 000       20,000         2      70,000       20,000
Subordinates                         "             1 900          600        4        7,600        2,400        12      22,800        7,200         3        5,700        1,800
Slbtotal                                                                        127,600       37,400                22.800        7,200                 5.700         1,800                                           156,100       46,400
Vehicles
4x4 *o SL.Li- W.go-                  NO.          28,000       21,000         1      28,000       21,000
4a4 LWB Pickups                                   23,500       17,500         3      70,500       52,500
4x4 Lorry 5 Ton                      "            52,000       42 000         1      52,000       42 O00
Subtotal                                                                        150,500      115,500                                                                                                                  150,500      115,500
Eqgipment and Furniture
Survey                               lot           8,500        6,040         1       8,500        6,040
Range Studies                                      3 5,600      2,520                                            1       3,600        2,520
Camping Clans I                                    1,350        1,010        4        5,400        4,040
Camping Clasn II"                                    700          500         7       4,900        3,500         2       1,400        0,000
Fodd-r Bank darvestin8g                              600          420                                                                                                                   2       1,200          840
Furniture Head of Deportment         "             3,000        2,100         1       3,000        2,100
Office Class I                       "             1,000          700        3        3,000        2,100
Office Class It                                      350          250         2         700          500
Subtotal                                                                         25,500       18,280                 5,000        3,520                                                     1,200          840         31.700       22,640
Other Items (Fodder Hanks)
Fenning Enclosures                   Km            1,200          360                                          135     162,000       48,600
Planting laterial                    Ton           3,000        2,700         5      15,000       13,500
Nursery (2 ha)                                                                        6,000                                 130                                 15
FPnning Fodder Banka                 Ku            1,200          360                                                                               4.7      5,640        1,690
Plant out and G-roing                                                                                                                                       15,680                              2,220
Sbtotal                                                                         21,000       13 500               162,130       48,600                21,335        1,690                  2.220                     206,685       63,790
Grand Total                                                                       1,084,680                                      59,320                27.035        3,490                    420          840         44,985     248,330
FE 451 9
June 18. 1975



ANNLX I5
8                             0         0                    40 i         Thbl,o23
o                             0a        0                l 
g                                       -'                   0    
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  o l 0
1l       88,8          8         8       |    or                      |       80         004q 
5414      oI o4oNaO.            WN       >        / R                  41       1a        W -    4'    I
1~~~~~~~ 10
4         O 00      000         00       00 004
0.0       40          004
01   88   8                                                                                        0  loew o       r  
0    41.                                               -              -  r                               I     lw_mt
410        0--    040          .00        41 4 0                  0               1          0    0 ol41
I1  O 41        0     -     0        ' ''                  01                                                                   041u
,-    0 e8                                                   00 00           0         0.0 00 0 8           a       | 8       lo
ei >I                                                                                 0     -0   Y>ZG40                2         
| S  0                 0                                                                                0                    0          
0 ~   ~    ~     0 b                                 0                              _ g    .0        _ 00.a
0 X?            808       08o                                          00 08 0to  0g                                              410l 8   a> O    r1 8U
0.       0                              0                       0 0    4     R              '                              00  |<-   
? o        o0oo0oo1                                .  41s   .0 ao l o0a 1                              ot4        ~<il       .   |q0*
014        0        00. _10.0                                           1          I 4       xI oI_ 
VI                                                              00ggg g g  0o   g                              f           00
el   oooooooooov7<                                          doo             a                                            '
P 41                       R0   1sb~n^>va 
O0  1                               41 b                                       oo                   411.0
41 z                c0                                                                  00      C  v   i oa    :v  
2~~~~~~0                         0       1    41    a  :           D        S       b       =       0:I_041lu  q      Q Ywoe 
41100l           --      -40 0>                                                                             0     54D10e 0a        v e  le t z        '   
0.    0.  4          --         0      0                                                        r      ##'0  .0  41  0    D  33 00c-.=
?   0   0.                                         > 0  41- .0                                        -I 0li 0   10   41 - 0 0



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ji jigga
Veterinary Services - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
___________________         Year 1                              Year 2                               Year 3                             year 1-5
Investment Category            Unit         Total            FE         No.      Total            FE        No.     Total             FE        No.      Total             FE         Total            FE
Houses and Other Buildings
Departtent Head                    No.         50,000       15,000           1      50,000       15,000
Senior Staff                       "           35,000       10,00D           1      35,000       11,000
Junior Staff                       "           13,500        4,000          3       40,500       12,000         2       27,000        8,000
Subordinate Staff                  "            1,900           600         6       11,400        3,600         4        7,600        2,400
Laboratory                         "           35,000       10,500          1       35,000       10,500
Field Stations                     "            6,600        2,000          2       13,200        4,000         4       26,400        8,000
Drug Supply Store                  "            14,400       4,800          1       14,400        4,800
Subtotal                                                                      199,500        60,900                61,000       18,400                                             .26Q0500       79,300
Vehicles
4x4 LWB Station Wagon              No.         28,000       21,000          1       28,000       21,000
4x4 LWB Pickup                     "           23,500       17,500          4       94,000       70,000         3       70,500       52,500
4x4 Lorry 5-Ton                                52,000       42,000          2      104,000       84,000         1       52,000       42,000
Trailers                                        6,000        4,000          5       30,000       20,000         3       18,000       12,000
Subtotal                                                                      256, 000      11S,000               i40,U00      106,500                                              396,500      301,500
Equipment
Laboratory                         Set         25,000       17,500          1       25,000       17,500
Field Station                      Set         11,280        7,896          3       33,840       23,688         3       33,840       23,688
Cattle Dips                        No.          9,720        6,720          1        9,720        6,720         1        9,720        6,720         2        19,440       13,440
DrSg Supply Unit                   Set          6,000        4,200          1        6,000        4,200
Veterinary Scouts                  "               312          216        25        7,800        5,400        50       15,600       10,800        25         7,800        5,400
Radio Transceiver                  No.          6,000        4,500          6       36,000       27,000         3       18,000       13,500
Subtotal                                                                       118,360       84,508                77,160       54,708                  27,240       18,840         222,760      158,056
Furniture
Departaent Head                    Set          3,000        2,100          1        3,000        2,100
Veterinary Officer                               1,000          700         2        2,000        1,400
Field Station                                     350          240          3        1,050          720         3        1,050          720
Laboratory                                      1,200          840          1        1,200          840
Trading Store                                   2,400        1,680          1        2,400        1,680
Subtotal                                                                         9,6k5        6,740                  1,05           720                                              10,700        7,460
Camp Eguipment
Veterinary Officer                 Set          1,350        1,010          2        2,700        2,020
Animal Health Assistant                            700         500          4        2,800        2,000         3        2,100        1,500
Vaccinators                                        700         500          8        5,600        4,000
Drivers                                           700          500          7        4,900        3,500         4        2,800        2,000
Subtotal                                                                        16,000       11,520                 4,900        3,500                                               20,900       15,020
Start-up Stocks                                                                      175,000      131,250                                                                                 175,000      131,250
Grand Total                                                                   774,510      489,918                284,610      183,828                  27,240       18,840      1,086,360      692,598
FE 637,
1/  Drugs & Chemicals 125,000
Dips, Hand sprayers, dosing gun, etc. 50,000
June 16, 1975
A-



RANGEIANDS DEVE1FMENT PROJECT
JiiigSa
(Eth$ )
Vnit                               Year I         :                   year 2                             Year 3                             Year 4                             Year 5                             Year 1-5
Ctlegors                       eet           F FE       No.      Total            FE        Na.     Tota             FE        N0 Toa                   FE                Total            FE         I.ot                     FE        TotE1            FE
Waaea and Salaries
Seajor Veterinary SEfitor            10,000       49,000         1      7t,000        49,000        1       70,000      49,000         1       70,000      49,000         1      15,000         -            1       15,000
Verte-iary Officer                   13,680                      1      13,680                      1       13,680                     1       13,680                     1      13,680                       1      13,680
Animal   ailkth A--Letents            5,900                      4      23,600                      7       41,300                     7       41,300                     7      41,300                      7       41,300
Varaieatare                           1,500                      8      12,000                      8       12,000                     8       12,000                     8      12,000                      8       12,000
telb Tenolalani                       5,900                                                         2       11,800                     2       11,ao                             ns 01,0
Lace  Clerhnkicis                     5,900                      1       5,900                      72  1   5,9900                     1        1,900                     1       5,900                      1        5,900
llrirern                              2,400                      7      168000                     11       26,400                    11       26,400                   11       26,400                     11       26,400
stern Keeper                          4,800                      1       400  1  4 0                1        4 0                       1        4,800                     1       4,800                      1        4,800
Store A.i.stent                       2,400                      1       20400                      3        7 200                     5       12,000                             3 02,000                   5       12,000
Cleanrs540                                                       4         ,160                     6        3,2400                    6        3,040                     6       3,046                               320
c7eaDers  900          02        1,8000                    6        5,400                     66       5,4200                    0       5,400                      6        5, 400
Veterinary Steele V                    1,440                    25       36,000                    75      1080000                            144,000                  100      144,000                    100      144,000
SobtorCa                                                           189,140       49,000               309,720       49,000               350,520       49,000               295,520                            295,520                    1,440,420    147,000
fer Diem 2                                                              19,600                              25,450                             28,150                            28,150                              28,150
argnag  Alloweon1/                                                      6,700                              6,700                              6700                               6,700                              6,700
P nsiOn Fund & PFot All- _ea    4/                                      11,340                              180580                             21 031                            17 731                              17,731
S.bt.t.1                                                            37,640                             50,730                              55,881                            52,581                              52 581                     249,413
Vehinle Running CGnts
4x4 LWB'n                             8,640        6 400         5      43,200       32,400         8       69,120       51,040        8       69,120       51,840        8      69,120       51,840         8       69,120       510840
4x4 Lorry S Ton                      12,960        9,720         2       25,920      19,440         3       38,880       29,160        3       38,880       29,160        3      30,000       29,160         3       30,000       29,160
subtotnl                                                            69,120       51,840               108 000       81.000                108.000      81,000               1080000       81,000                108j000       81,000        501,120   375,840
Other Ru-nini feets
Annal Re-lan-eerts
Labor-tory                             1,200         900                                            1        1,200          900         1       1,200          900        1       1,200           900         1       1,200
Field Station                         2,520        10488                                            6       1, 120       11, 304       6       15,120       11,304        0      13,120       11,304         6       15.120       11,304
Veterioury Soonte                        102          72                                           75        7,650        5 400      100       10,200        7,200      100      10,200        7,200       100       10,200        7,200
sOpplio-
LahereInrY       /                     12,400      1,920         1        2,400       1,920         1        2,400        1,920        1        2,400        1,920        1       2,400        1,920         1        2,400        1,920
Field StatIons 5                      1,000          600         2        2,000       1,700         6        6,000        3,600        6        6 000        3 600        6       6,000        3 600         6        6,000        3,600
Vetzerlnary steele                      252          204        25       6,300        5,100        75       18,900      15,300       100       25/I z       20 400     G10       257200       20 400       100       25,200       20,400
Sobtotal                                                            10,700        e, 2?'               51,270       38,424                60.120       43,324                60 120       45,324 324J60.120                    45,324       242.330    182,616
Mitnne6/
- houses and ether Buildidgs (2.5%)                                                                            5,550        1,307                 8,225        2 056                8,225         2,056                 0,225        2,056
Sqeiptent end  narnitare (5h)                                                                                6 350        1,587                10,300        2,575               11,650        2,912                 11,630        2,912
Sobtrtel                                                                                                11,900       2,974                 10.525       4,631                19.873        4,968                 19.875        4,968         70.175      17,541
Gsand Total                                                        306 600      109,060               531,620      171,389               593_046      179,955               536 096      131.292               5362 096      131,292     2.503,458    722,997
FE 297.
1/  EthS 50 Cotel Allo--nc.
70 salary
EthS120/=onth = rEh$ 1,440/year
2/ Vet. offic    100 doyn en EthS 20 = Eth82 000
AHA            150                9 =     1,300
Drirera        150                6 =       900
Vaccinator    150                 4 =       600
3/  107. snt-r  nlory for an Amhoric apeaker yho leor--soneli or for neaoml       speaker who Onertr    Ah-trto
ctlculated as 10%, of I ret. Off., 7 AHA, 0 v iceootor,telnrte:
4,130
1 200
6,698 = 6,700
4/ A eon af 67 of total relation  nod eagna nun token to toner _   Wtoro pention tonnitoonta and hardship poet oll vancen for cer-tan cotegortes of ateff
5/ ttrfig-eotor Gao Eth$ 300
AhA                    400
V_ritEtor_             300
1,000 y-o/.ttalloo~i.  ...2
6/  HOraing ond other boildloge 2,5/ oi orfiginal ive-t-not startitg y-er 2.  -ornltoo .       no equipment 5h of Orf - nil Onvuetoot rDSr eorrting vent 2.
Jrly 1, 1975



<)   o8                   o8  e E       ~~~~~~Thb1e 26
liM1
~~~~~~~~~~ I
Cl ~     ~        ~        t C   CC        C N
C~~~ o
oC      C   CC C           olf
H~~~~C   C C C
>1~~~~~I
'0                    CC              C C 
C  C       C             CC   CC   CC
b        a-|a    C C
0         C                          C CC C                          '
C                                    C     C C
C~ ~~ ~ 8a  0   0           0         0
a   0  -El  C -   0   0  0  C         0
S 1   00~C C00
8. 08g000                   ' 
00 .  00       000o
* ~  ~~~~~~             o8 .0 0    0C  -  0   0
el ~ ~  ~         ~~~~                  00   0.0      Oo aoN
o~~~~~4                                   CC   
o                                  Coao o



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPLENT PROJECT
Water D-evelopent Program - Recurrent C-sts
(Eth$)
Unit                               Yor1Year 2                                                             Yea  3                             Year 4                              TsYar 5                          Yer i-S
Category            Cost             FE        No.     Total            FE        No.      Total            FE       No.      Totrl            FE         _-      Total            FE        N       Totr1             FE        Total             FE
Wages and Salaries
Borehole Attend-nts    1,440                        1        1,440                     4        5,760                      4       5,760                      4        5,760                      4        5,760
Driver                  2,400                       1        2.400                      1       2,400                      1       2,400                      1        2,400                      1        2,400
Subtotal                                                3,840                               8,160                              8,160                              8,160                               8.160                      36,480
Per Di.e                                                     1,200                              1,200                              1,200                               1,200                               1,200
Pension Fund & Post                                            230                                489                                489                                 489                                 489
Allowancea 1/
Subtotal                                                1,430                               1,689                              1,689                               1,689                              1.689                        8.186
Vehicle Running Coat    12,960          9,720                 12, 96        9 .720               12,960        9,720                 12 960        9,720                12,960        9,720                 12,960        9,720         64,800       48,600
Other Running Co-t
Water Pump              1,600           800         1        1,600          800         1       1,600          800         4        6,400       3,200         4        6,400        3,200         4        6.400        3,200         22,400       11,200
llaintenance 3J'
Housing (2.57.)                                                                                                                       190          47                    190           47                    190           47
Wet-r Pointa (2,/)                                                                                380          150                    380          150                   380          150                    380          150
Enuip-eot (5/.)                                                                                 1,400        1,000                 1 400        1,000                  2,400        1,000                  1,400        1,000
Subtotal                                                                                    1,780        1,150                 1,970        1,197                 1970         1,197                 1,970        1,197           7,690       4,741
Gr-nd Total                                                         10,520                 26 1         1.670                 31,7         14,117                31.179       14,117                 317          14,117        139.556       64,541  FE 46%
1/ A sun of 67, of toitl salarien and wages wa-  taoko to rover ifurtu    pensuio  c-ocitn-ntn and hardship puat allow-ances  urn ertaie categories of staff.
2!  FPr 1 exiating -nd 4 cow boreholes (year 3) -nd for dips.
3/  Housing 2.57, oi original inuastmet st-rting y-r  2.  Equipmn.t 5% and water pofnta 2% uf -riginal investment coat stnrting year 2.
July 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jiiigga
Stocker Feeder Program - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost                        Year 1                                Year 2                              Year 1-5
Investment Category              Unit        Total              FE        No.       Total             FE         No.      Total              FE          Total             FE
Housing
Head of Department                No.          50,000       45,000           1       50,000        15,000
Deputy Head of Department         No.          35,000       10,000           1       35,000        10,000
Subtotal                                                                         85,000        25,000                                                 85,000        25,000
Vehicles
4x4 LWB Pickup                    No.          23,500        17,500         1        23,500        17,500          1        23,500        17,500          47,000        35,000
Equipment and Furniture
Cattle Scale                      No.           3,000         1,500         1         3,000         1,500
Branding Equipment                Set             120            84          2          240           168
Calculating Machine               No.             950           800          1          950           800
Water Pump & Borehole                         100,000        80,000          1      100,000        80,000
Equipment
Furniture Class I                 Set           1,000           700          1        1,000           700
Furniture Class II                "               350           250                                                1           350           250
Subtotal                                                                        105,190        83,168                     350           250          105.540        83,418
Grand Total                                                                     213,690       125,698                  23,850        17,750         237,540        143,448
June 30, 1975
a x
M -
X '4,



ANNEX 15
OIl   ~                                 0         4l          r-        4    S         I e2
000                          0         - 8J0 O  1
4 ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     r 0000  01| 00l 01 0I0    001
.4,1~ ~ ~ ~ 00 0  _1 0    1        0!0                          11
00000e                               e. 00    0n0  1 
00040  OO~~f        ~                        01
_, 00 4              Oe        _           ]        01               w                                 4,
041                    0!                           0   01~~~~~~~~~~~
I"o   g1 h  0         0                                                   4                0n                                     >
0~ 4  ,                                                                                                                     s
4  0  00004    41   000!                              0101011~~~~~~~~~~~~
4,  00004    01   0001                  0101011~~~~~~~~~
08 08  S        I $1                 01 R] o                                                       00l 
0000            00 _00    r                                r    r    
r,  _, -                                                                               4,             04_    _R0 
4,  41                         04,   0~~~~~
_~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ _,                                                                  -0r_0r0
4,                   00               10             4,      0     oS1~~~~~~~
00  4,   f ~~~~~~~~o                                                   0-~~~
txl ~        ~         0    0    <0        4 o,    4    0 _            0 O         4, S  r1 r4,C C      
C3]1   e   > a         r   _ <         0 0    0 _     _     _                          e   r.4 00Q
S  l    W   I I  o             o                     o         4           _         u-~I        0        o041
C1             00      0   0    .                        4,    4,     4,   0   0
g~~     ~       ~                0001       40                  _ j 00                 0  4
o   I *1  8     8  4   tI  r rY   ol  1       81           -| 811                           010411  o  
|~~~~~~~~~~~ o|  _. _..00    4  _r,



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jiiigga
Roads - Capital Costs
(Eth$ '000)
Unit Cost                        Year 1                               Year 2                                Year 3                             Year 1-3
Investment Category   Unit           Total             FE        No.       Total            FE        No.       Total             FE        No.       Total             FE         Total             FE
Equipment
Dump Truck 5 Ton         No.            52.0            42.0       2          104.0           84.0
4x4 LWB Pickups          "               23.5           17.5       3           70.5           52.5
Water Trailers
l,OOO liLers                           2.2             1.8       2            4.4           3.6
Subtotal                                                                  178.9         140.1                                                                                     178.9          140.1
Miscellaneous
Survey Equipment         Set              8.5            6.0       3           25.5           18.0
Water Drums              No.              0.20           0.015   32              0.6           0.5
Camp Equipment                                                                 73.5           51.0
Wheel barrel/            Each             0.02           0.04    50             3.5            2.0
Hand Tools -             Year            10.1            7.0       1           10.1            7.5       1           10.1           7.5       1            10.1           7.5
Black Smiths set         No.             0.5             0.4       1            0.5            0.4
Cash Box                 "                0.5            0.4       3            1.5            1.2
Adding Machine        2/                  0.95           0.80      3            2.8            2.4
Expendable Materials                                                           75.0           45.0       1           75.0          45.0       1            75.0          45.0
Subtotal                                                                  193.0         128.0                   85.1           52.5                   85.1           52.5         363.2          233.0
Grand Total                                                               371.9         268.1                   85.1           52.5                   85.1           52.5         542.1          373.1
FE 69%
1/ At Eth$ 16 per man/year.
2/ Includes cement, reinforcement, etc.
July 2, 1975
o, -



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jijigga
Roads - Recurrent Costs
(Eth$ 'OOO)
Unit                        Year 1                           Year 2                            Year 3                         Year 1-3
Category               Cost       FE      No.       Total          FE      No.       Total         FE        No.      Total          FE         Total              FE
Wages and Salaries
Chief Road Supervisor             9.6                1          9.6                   1          9.6                   1          9.6
Road Supervisor                   7.2                2         14.4                   2         14.4                   2         14.4
Drivers                           2.4                4          9.6                   4          9.6                   4          9.6
Foremen                           1.2                7          8.4                   7          8.4                   7          8.4
Laborers for Class B Roads        1.0 l/           166        166.0                 300        300.0                 300        300.0
Laborers for Class C Roads        0.5 1/           138         69.0                 300        150.0                 300        150.0
Subtotal                                                 277.0                            492.0                            492.0                   1,261.0
Pension Fund & Post Allowance2/                                16.6                             29.5                             29.5
Field Allowance                                                 9.0                             13.8                             13.8
Subtotal                                                  25.6                             43.3                              43.3                     112.2
Running Costs
Dump Truck                       12.9     9.7        2         25.8       19.4        2         25.8       19.4        2         25.8        19.4
4x4 LWB Pickup                    8.6     6.5        3         25.8       19.5        3         25.8       19.5        3         25.8        19.5
Maintenance of Equipment          8.3     5.8        1          8.3         5.8       1          8.3        5.8         1         8.3         5.8
Subtotal                                                  59.9        44.7                 59.9       44.7                   59.9        44.7         179.7          134.1
Road Maintenance during
Construction
Laborers 3/                                                                                     13.8                             43.8
Hand Tools                                                                                       1.0        0.7                   3.0         2.1
Subtotal                                                                                   14.8        0.7                   46.8         2.1          61.6            2.8
Grand Total                                              362.5        44.7                610.0       45.4                  642.0        46.8      1,614.5           136.9
FE 8.4%
1/ Cost per km.
2/ A sum of 6% of total salaries and wages was taken to cover future pension commitments and hardship post allowances for certain
categories of staff.
3/ At 207A of Class C Labor Construction Cost.                                                                                                                                      ax
July 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELA'NDS DEVP1IEW 1NT PROJECT
Trsintng end Information - CoPitnE Coat.
(Eth$)
Invetmen t                    Unit coat                       Y-u  I                               Year 2                               Year 3                               Yos 4Year S                                                                   -
Cto          Onttu T     otUnitCost        FE       No.       Total            FE        No.                         Totr1                               FE No.  Total  EE No.                 Totaa                           FE So Y ar  1-5
Ho.sing bnd Other
Buildings
Head of Dapt.         No.       50,000        15,000         1       50,000        15,000
Senior StIif           2        35,000        10,000         1       35,000        10,000
Training Centar        2           180            60       120       21,600         7,200
Snoud Proofing of
Re-ordf8g Room                                             1        2,400         1,680
Sabt.tl                                                        109.000       33,880                                                                                                                                                            109           ;3,8aG
Vehiclen
Mobile Center
LorrtyNo.                     57,000       45,600                                              1       57,000        45,600
4x4 Li L.orry         "         52,000        42,000         1       52,000        42,000
4x4 LWB St. Wagon               28,000        21,000         1       28,000        21,000
Sobtoti1                                                         80.000       63,000                 57,000        45,600                                                                                                                       137.000      108,600
Epuipment & Furntture
llobile Center        No.       21,600        14,400                                             1        21,600       14,400
TtOining Center                 28,800        20,400         1       28,800        20,400
Off. FurE trit-
Clans I             Sat        1,000           700        2         2,000         1,400
Off. FPrnitore
Clans II                         350           250                                             1           350          250
Furniture for
Training Center                1,440         1,008        1         1,440         1,008
FPrnit-re for Mobile
Center                         1,800         1,260                                             1         1,800        1,260
CaWping Clne  I       "          1,350         1,010        2         2,700         2,020
Camping Cloan II                   700           500        1           700           500        2         1,400        1,000
Snbtotal                                                         35,640       25,328                 25.150        16,910                                                                                                                        60.790       42,238
Fllo-hip. 6
Tra-niig                                                           57,000       51,000                 57,000        51,000                 57.000        51,000                 30,000        28,000                                            Z01.000       181,000
Gr-nd Total                                                     261,640       173,208               139,150       113,510                 57,000        51,000                 30.000        28,000                                             507,790      365,718
FE 7 N.
May 5, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JijigRa
Training and Infor. atio.- R.current Costs
(E th$ )
UnIt                              Yhor 1                               Y.ar 2                               Year 3                               Year 4                               Ye.r 5                            feary.   1-5    F
CeteeerY               Cost            FE       No.      Total             FE       No.       Total             FE       No.       Total            FE        N..       Total             FE         .       Total             FE        Tot      r 1       F
wases and Salaries
Heed of Department         10,800                    1        10,800                      1       10,800                      1        10,800                      1        10,800                      1        10,800
Section Head                7,200                    1         7,200                      1        7,200                      1         7,200                      1         7,200                      1         7,200
ARA Mobila Canter           5,900                    1         5,900                      1        5,900                       1        5,900                      1         5,900                       1        5,900
Drivers                     2,400                    1         2,400                      3        7,200                       3        7,200                      3         7,200                      3         7,200
Laborerr                      900                                                         4        3,600                      4         3,600                      4         3,600                      4         3,600
G-arda/Cleaners         1/    900                    3         2 700                      3        2 700                      3         2 700                      3         2 700                      3         2 700
Somali LonEgooe Teaher-/  2,400                      2        4,800                       2        2,400                      2         2,400                      2         2,400                      2         2400
Sbtrotel                                                 33.80                                39.800                               39.800                               39.800                               39.800                      193.000
Per Die-'/                                                    7,150                                8,350                                8,350                                8,350                                8,350
P-esion Fond 2'                                                2,028                               2,388                                2,388                                2.388                                2,388
Subtot-l                                                  9,178                               10,738                               10,738                               10.738                              I0,738                       52.230
Vehile REsning C.ets
Lorries                    12,960       9,720        1        12,060        9,720         2       23,920        19,440        2        25,9Z0        19,440        2        25,920        29,440        2        25,920        19,440
4.4 LOB St. WMgol           8,640       6,480        I         8,690        6,480         1        8,640         6,480         1        8,640         6,480                                             1         8,640         6,480
Generator Mobile Center    1,200           900                                            1        1,200           900         1        1,200           900        1         1,200           900        1         1,200           900
Snbtot.1                                                 21,600        16,200                 35,760        26,820                 35,760       26,820                  35.760        26,820                 35.760        26,820        164.640      123,480
Other Running Coats
Lodsing for Tr-i..ee        7,200                             14,400                              14,400                               14,400                               14,400                               14,400
Field Deye                 13,800                             13,800                              13,800                               13,800                               13,800                               13,800
Tapee. S1idee & FilP        1,200          840                 1,200          840                  1,200           840                  1,200           840                  1,200           840                  1,200           840
Projent Reports             1,200                               600                                1,200                                1,200                                1,200                                1,200
Sobtotel                                                 30,000           840                 30.600           840                 30.600          840                  30.600           840                 30.600           840        152.400        4,200
Maintenance
Honees and Other   4/
Buildings  2.,)                                                                                  2.725           681                  2756 2,725                                           681                  2,725           881
Equipment and F-rniture
(5%)                                                                                             1,782          445                   3,000          750                  3,000           750                   3,000          750
Sbtotal                                                                                       4.507         1,126                  5,725         1,431                  5.725         1,431                  5.725         1,431         21,682         5,419
Greed Total                                              94,578        17,040                121.405        28,786                122.623       29,091                 122,623        29,091                122.623        29,091        583,852      133,199
PS 23%
1/ Eth$200/month for evening cla..es.
2/  Read of Dep.rttnet        100 daye st Eth20= Eth$ 2,000
Sectt-n Head               50              16 =        800
AhA Mobile Center         250               9        2,250
Driver Mobile Center      250               6        1,500
Dtivere                   1010              6 =        600
3/  A s,Z  of 6% of total salaries rnd wolen  robes to cnver future pension  -omitnents and h-rdship post allownncee for nertrin  -otegories of  taff.
7j/ Ronein8g ed other buildings 2.5% of original investtent etarting year 2. Furnittre and equipment 5% of original investment rs.t taerting y-er 2.
July 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Triala aod stodies - CaPit-l Coast
(Eth$)
lilit  Total     FE              ~~~~Year 1                           Y.ar 2                            Year 3                             Feas 4                            Y..r 5                         Year i-o
Invest=ent Categary             Collt       Total            FE        No.     Total            FE       No       Total           FE        No.      Total           FE        Na      yata 4                    Na      Tatal            FE       at        1      e
Head of Dapart-eot                 No          50,000       15,000        1       50,000      15,000
Asr. Ronaaiat                      "           35,000       10,000        1       35,000      10,000
J.nior StaEf                                   13,500       4,000         1       13,500       4.000
SNbtotal                                                                     980500       29,000                                                                                                                                                98.500      29,000
Vehialsa
4x4 Lorry 5 Ton                     "          52,000      42,000         1       52,000      42,000
4x4 tWB station Wagon"                         28,000       21,000        1       28,000      21,000
4a4 LWB Pi.kap                                 23,500       17,500        1       23,500      17,500
Trailer                             '           6,000       4,000         1          -ng       4
Subtotal                                                                    109,500       84,500                                                                                                                                               109,500      84,300
Eqaipna.t Lnd Fu-nito9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
C-alulator                         N-.            950          800        2        1,900       1,800
Li-eeto-k scalo"                                3,000        1,500        2        6,000       3,000
Pa.ping Equip5e.t                  Sot          1,600        1,000        1        1,600       1,000
Faso Machinery                     sat         38,400      26,800         1       38,400      26.800
Furnit-re Dep. HRod                Sot          3,000        2,100        1        3,000       2,100
Offica Cla a I                     Set          1,000          700        2        2,000       1,400
Offica Class II                    "              350          250        6        2,100       1,500
Capping EquPxeant Class I          "            1,350        1,010        3        4,050       1,010
CasaVio  Equipeant Class TI        "              700          500       10        7,000       5,000
MircellanepuB                                   1,200        1,000        1        1,200       1,000
Subtotal                                                                     67,250       44,610                                                                                                                                                67.250      44,610
Other It-n
Aerial Sorvey                                  64,800       64,800                                                                                                                                                         64,800       64,800
Trial Birk.                                    36,000      12,000         1      36,000       12,000         1      36,000       12,000        1      36,000       12,000                                                  -
Fencing Fodder Trials              K.           1.200         360         1.8      2,160         646
Pl-anting Mateoial                 "            1.000          700        1        1,000         700         0.5       500          350
Subtotal                                                                     39,160       13,346                36,500      12,350                36,000       12,000                                                  64,800       64,800     176,460    102,496
Totai                                                                       314,410      171,456                36,500      12,350                36,000       12,000                                                  64,800       64,800     451.710    260,606
FE 081.
Jose 30, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RA'dGELANDf. DEVELOPM8NT PROJECT
Jii iROn
Trials and Studies - Recurrent Cost
(Eth$)
Unit                                    YEa .                              Ta Yr 2                            Year 3                              Year 4                              Year 5                                  1-5
Cost           FE             so.        Tntal           FE        N.      Total            F        No        oa         .,....        -No.      Totaal                                                                           FE,i. .~.   ....r 
Wages and Ralarina
Senior Agr. Economist -           70,000         49,000           1        70,000       49,000        1       70,000      49,000         1      70,000       49,000         1       15,000         -                    15,000
AUr. Econ-nist                    10,800                          1        10,800                      1      10,800                     1      10,800                      1        10,800                     1        10,S00
Senior Tenhniciasr                 6,600                         2         13,200                     2       13,200                     2      13,200                      2       13,200                      2       13,200
Pesnant Assistants                 3,600                         4         14,400                     4       14,400                     4      14,400                      4       14,400                      4        14,400
Drivers                            2,400                          3         7,200                     3        7,200                     3        7,200                     3         7,200                     3         7,200
Guards                               900            2/            3         1,800                     3        1,800                     3       1,800                      3         1,800                     3         1,800
TemPoarY Entmerators                 350 =no/-onth              120        42,000                   120       42,000                   120      42,000                    120       42,000                    120       42,000
Subtotal                                                              159,400      49,000               159,400       49,000               159,400       49,000                104400                              104400                      687.000     147,000
Per Dim                        3/ 12,000                                   12,000                             12,000                            12,000                               12,000                              12,000
Pension Fund & Post Allovances1                                             9,540                              9,540                             9,540                               6,264                               6,264
Subtotal                                                               21,540                             21,540                            21.540                              1S,264                              18.264                     101.148
Vehicle Running Coat
4x4 Lorry 5 Too                   12,960          9,720           1        12,960        9,720        1       12,960       9,720         1      12,960        9,720         1       12,960        9,720         1        12,960       9,720
4x4 LW8  Station Wagon            80640           6,480           1         8,640        6,480        1        8,640       6,400         1       S,640        6,400         1        6,640        6,400         1         8,640       6,480
4n4 LWB Pickup                     8,640          6,480           1         8,640        6,480        1        8,640       6,480         1       8,640        6,480         1        8,640        6,480         1        8,640        6,480
Subtotal                                                               30,240       22,680               30_240       22,680                30,240       22,680                 30.240       22,680                 30.240       22,680        151,200      113,400
Other Roneing Coot
Fodder Crop Tricle                   500            120        200 ha      10,000        2,500      200 ha   10,000        2,500       200 ha  10,000         2,500       200 ha    10,000        2,500       200 h.    10,000        2,500
Test Ptmping                       2,400          1,200           1         2,400        1,200        1        2,400       1,200         1       2,400        1,200         1         2,400       1.200         1         2,400       1,200
Animal Transport                                                            9,000         -                    9,000         -                   9,000         -                      9000                                9,000        -
Subtot.l                                                               21.400        3,700                21.400       3,700                21,400        3,700                 21,400        3,700                 21.400        3,700        107,000       18,500
Mainteance 4/
Housen & Other Infrastructures
(2.5%)                                                                                                      3,370          042                 3,370          842                  3,370          842                  3,370          842
Equipment -nd Furniture (5%)                                                                                   3,362         840                 3,362          840                   3.362         840                  3,362          840
Oubtota1                                                                                                   6,732       1,682                 6,732        1,682                  6.732        1.682                  6,732        1.682         26.928        6,728
Grand Total                                                           232.580       75,380              239.312       77,062               2 312         77,062                ISI,036       28,000                11S.036       28,062      1.073.276     205 ,20
FE 27%
1/  Senior AUr. Economist Will be stationed it JiOigg  but will deal with simil-r pro.ro iRn 0RLD0 and NERP.
7/ In-luding field allowne-es.
3/ A non cf 6% of total salarics cod wages was taken to rover future pension  -oormtmects and h-rdehi  poot allowances for certain  catego-ies of staff.
4/ Ho00ing an0 other buildings 2.5% of original investnent sterting year 2. F-rniture end equipment 5% of original investment coat stsrting year 2.
July 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jiiigga
Project Administration - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost                        Year 1                             Year 2                              Year 1-5
Investment Category              Unit         Total            FE         No.       Total            FE        No.      Total            FE         Total            FE
Housing and Other Buildings
Head of Departments                No.          50,000       15,000            3     150,000       45,000
Senior Staff                       "            35,000       10,000            6     210,000       60,000
Office                             m2              240           72        1,100     264,000       79,200
Garage                                             120           36          125      15,000        4,500
Guest and Club House                            72,000       24,000                   72,000       24,000
Stores                             m2              156           48         400       62,400       19,200
Subtotal                                                                         773.400      231,900                                            773.400      231,900
Architect Fees (10%)                                                                  77,340       23,190                                             77,340       23,190
Infrastructures
Perimeter  Fencing                 km            2,000        1,000            4       8,000        4,000
Installation of Utilities                       30,000       15,000                   30,000       15,000
Access Roads                                    10,000        3,300            2      20,000        6,600
Subtotal                                                                          58,000       25,600                                             58,000       25,600
Vehicles
4x4 LWB Station Wagon              No.          28,000       21,000            1      28,000       21,000
4x4 LWB Pickup                                  23,500       17,500            1      23,500       17,500
Breakdown Lorry                                 62,000      49,000             1      62,000       49,000
Subtotal                                                                         113,500       87,500                                            113.500       87,500
Equipment and Furniture
Tools for Garage                   Set          18,000       12,600            1      18,000       12,600
Radio Transceiver                  No.           6,000        4,500            2      12,000        9,000
Office Equipment                   Set          22,000       15,400            1      22,000       15,400
Shelving for Stores                             12,000        8,400            1      12,000        8,400
Office Furniture Class I                         1,000          700            9       9,000        6,300
Office Furniture Class IT                          350          250            8       2,800        2,000
Camping Equipment Class I                        1,350        1,010            2       2,700        2,020
Camping Equipment Class II                         700          500            7       4,900        3,500
Stock and Spare Parts                           10,000        9,000            1      10,000        9,000
Subtotal                                                                          93.400       68,220                                            93,400       68,220
Total                                                                          1,115,640      436,410                                         1,115,640      436,410  39% FE
April 26, 1975                                                                                                                                                                   >
m, 



ETHIOPIA
RANGEeINDS DEVETOPNENT PROJECT
Ji I igge
ProJect Administration - Recurrent Costs
(Eth$)
Unit                            Year I                            Year 2                            Year 3                             Year 4T Ycr 5 3Yer 1-5
Cistsory               CRst            FE       No.      Total           FE        No.     Total           FE        No.    Total             FE       Na.    Total             FE        No.    Total             FE         Total           FE
Wages and SOlanies
Projent Director                 24,000                    1      24,000                     1      24,000                     1       24,000                     1      24,000                     1       24,000
Head of Ada. end FiasAcis1 SeIr.12,000                     1      12,000                     1       12,000                     1      12,000                     1      12,000                      1      12,000
Head cf Technical Services       12,000                    1      12,000                     1       12,000
Chief Ac-crntant                  7,200                    1       7,200                     1        7,200                    1        7,200                     1       7,200                     1        7,200
Feracenel officer                 7,000                    1       7,000                     1        7,800                    1        7,800                     1       7,800                     1        7,800
Procurement ORMen                 9,000                    1       9,000                     1       9,000                     1        9,000                     1       9,000                     1        9,000
Accuntnant/Clerk                  4,200                    3      12,600                     3       12,600                    3       12,600                     3      12,600                     3       12,600
Pers 1nnel sacretanies            7,200                    2      14,400                     2      14,400                     2       14,400                     2      14,400                     2       14,400
Typistr                           4,800                    3      14,400                     3      14,400                      3      14,400                     3      14,400                     3       14,400
Mechanics                         4,800                    3      14,400                     3       14,400                     3      14,400                     3      14,400                     3       14,400
Radia Operator                    4,800                    1       4 S00                     l       4,000                     1        4,800                     1       4,800                     1        4,800
Stare Clerks                      4,200                    2       8,400                     2       8,400                     2        8,400                     2       8,400                     2        8,400
Driver-                           2,400                    3       7,200                     3        7,200                    3        7,200                     3       7,200                     3        7,200
Guards sad Meeseneers               900                    4       3,600                     4       3,600                     4        3,600                     4       3,800                     4        3,600
Cleaners                            720                    3       2,160                     3        2,160                    3        2,160                     3       2,160                     3        2,160
Subtotel                                                     153.960                           153.960                           141_960                            141_960                            141,960                     733,800
Per Dins                          9,120                            9,120                             9,120                              9,120                             9,120                              9,120                       9,120
Ltnguage Allwan.e.                3,600                            3,600                             3,600                              3,600                             3,600                              3,600                       3,600
Pension Fund 4 Po.t All--owcej_                                    9,237                             9,237                              8,517                             8,517                              8,517
Subtotal                                                      21,957                            21,957                             21,957                            21,957                             21,957                     109,785
Vehicle Running Casts
4x4 LWB Statisa w0g00             8,640      6,480         1       8,640        6,480        1       8,640        6,480        1        8,640       6,480         1       8,640        6,480        1        8,640       6,480
4u4 LB Pickup                    8,640      6,480         1       8,640        6,480        1       8,640        6,480        2        8,400       6,480         l       8,640        6,480         1       8,640       6,480
Br-eskdon Lorry                   6,000      4,500         1       6,000        4,500        1       6,000        4,500        1        6,000       4,500         1       6,000        4,500        1        6,000      46500
Subtotl                                                      23,280       17,460               23,280       17,460                23,280      17,460                23.280       17,460                23.280      17,460         116,400     87,300
Other Running Clsts
office Expensos                  12,000                           12,000                             12,000                            12,200                            12,000                             12.000
Bank Charges                      1,200                            1,200                              1,200                             1,200                             1,200                              1,200
Insurance                        48,000                           48,000                            48,000                             48,000                            48,000                             48,000
Onif/raq1                         1,200                            1,200                              1,200                             1,200                             1,200                              1,200
Travel-                             180                   48       8,640                    48       8,640                    48        8,640                    48       8,640                    48        8,640
Audinars Free                    18,000                            18,000                            18,000                            18,000                            18,000                             18,000
miscell-oaoue                     2,400                            2,400                              2,400                             2,400                             2,400                              2,400
Sbtotel                                                      91.440                            91.440                            91,440                             91,440                             91.440                     457.200
Maianenaanc 3/
Haueing and Other Builditgs
(2.5%)                                                                                            19,335          483               19,335          483                19,335          483               19,335          483
Equip .. t ..d Yurnture(5%)                                                                          4,670          117                 4,670         117                 4,670          117                 4,670          117
Subt.t.1                                                                                        24,005          600               24.005          600                24,005          600                24,005         600          96,020       2,400
Total                                                        290,637       17,460              314,642       18,060              314,642       18,060               314.642      18,060                314,642      10,060       1.549,205     89,700  FE 6%
1/ A soo of 6% af tatol s-l1r-e- sod wag-s 000 talon to toner fatcre p-cato- commitments and h-rdehip pusntowaces fun  -ertait  csitegors up staff.
2/ tlamly air tr-e- Cu Addid Abahb.
3/  .o.sing snd othr buildings 2.57 uf original i-n-etmn-t est-tine y-ur 2. Furniture -ad equipment 5X of -riginsl icv-st-t.. cost stortiag ye-r 2.
.loy 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jiiigga
LMB Headquarters Staff - Capital Costs
Eth$)
Unit Cost                      Year 1                                Year 2                      Year 1-5
Investment Category              Unit       Total        FE            No.       Total        FE            No.       Total       FE       Total         FE
Vehicles
4 x 4 LWB Station Wagon            No.         28,000        21,000      2          56,ooo        42,000
4 x 4 Lorry 5 Ton                  No.         52,000        42,00o      1          52,000        42,ooo
Runabout                           No.          9,500         5,500      1           9,500         5,500
Subtotal                                                                117,500        89,500                                     117,500        8950
Equipment and Furniture
Furniture Class I                  Set          1,000           200     10          10,000         7,000
Furniture Class II                 Set            350           250      7           2,450         1,750
Camp Equipment Class I             Set          1,350         1,010      6           8,100         6,o60
Camp Equipment Class I             Set            700           500      4           2,800        2,000
Office Equipment                    Set        10,000         7,000      1          10,000         7,000
Radio Transceiver-    2/           Set         12,000         9,000      1          12,000         9,000
Audio-visual Equipment-            Set         10,000         7,000      1          10,000         7,000
Subtotal                                                                 55,350        39,810                                      55,35          9,810
Diagnostic Laboratory                         700,000       210,000                700,000       210,000                                     700,000       210,000
at Debre Zeit
Livestock Project Preparation                 100,000       30,000                 100,000       30,000                                      100,000        30,000
Total                                                                972,850       369,310                                     97 L5         369,310
Costs Attributable to the Jijigga
Rangelands Project3/                                                                321,0o40      121,872                                     321,040       121,872
1/ Central Station for Yroject network.
2/  Film equipment was provided by the TBRD 4th Education Project.  Funds included in the Project would
cover supply of films and production costs as well as other audio-visual material.
July 7, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jijigga
IM  Beadquarters Staff - Recurrent Costs
(Eth$)
Category                Unit                       Year 1                          Year 2                     Year 3                       Year 4                          Year 5                  Yeax 1-5
Cost      FE        No.    Total      FE          No.    Total      FE           o.    Total      FE         No.    Total       FE         No.   Total        FE         Total         FE
Wages end Salaries'/
Director of Livestock Dev. Dept.    70,000    49,0o0     1       70,000     49,000    1        70,000     49,000    1        70,000     49,000    1        70,000     49,000    1        70,000     49,000
Financial Controller                 70,000   49,ooo    1        70,000     49,0o0     1       70,000     49,000    1        70,000     49,000    1       70,000      49,000    1        70,000     49,000
Water Esgineer                       15,000              1       15,000        -       1       15,000        -       1       15,000       -       1        15,000       -        1       15,000
Personnel Assistant                  15,00              1       15,000                1       15,000               1        15,000               1        15,000               1        15,000
S-ciologist                          9,007               1        9,000       -        1        9,000       -       1         9,000       -       1        9,000        -       1         9,000       _
Procurement Officer                   9,000              1        9,000        -       1        9,000       -        1        9,000       -       1         9,000       -       1         9,000
Mans Media Specialist                 9,000              1        9,000        -       1        9,DOO       -        1        9,000       -       1         9,000       -       1         9,000
Internal Additor                      5,000              1        5,000                1        5,000               1         5,000               1        5,000                1         5,000
Assistant Procurement Officer         4,200              1        4,200        -       1        4,2oo               1         4,200       -       1        4,200        -       1         4,200
Accountants                           4,200              2        8,400        -       2        8,4oo       -       2         8,4oo       -       2         8,4oo       -       2         8,4oo
Secretnries                          6,ooo               2       12,000               2        12,000       -       2       12,000        -       2       12,000        -       2        12,000
Clerk                                 4,200              2        8,oo                          8,400       -                 8,ioo               2        8 44o        - 2               8,4oo -
Driver:                               2,400              4        9,600        -       4        9,600        -       4        9,600       -       4         9,600       -       4         9,600
Subtotal                                         244,6oo     98,000           244,600      98,000           244,600     98,000            244,600      98,000    4      244,6o0    98,ooo    1,223,000    49o,ooo
Per Diem                                                         28,4oo                        28,400                        28,400                       28,400                         28,4oo
Pension Fund                                                     14,676                        14,676                        14,676                       14,676                         14,676
Subtotal                                          40,076                        43,o76                       43,076                        43,076                        43,076                  215,380
Vehicle Rosining Costs
4 e 4 LW  Station Wagon             P,6oo      6,48o    0       17,200     10,960    2        17,200     12,960    2        17,200     12,960    2       17,200      12,960    2        17,200     12,960
,  i Lorry 57r12,900                           9,7(20    1      12, 900)    9,700    1        12,900      9,720    1        12,900      9,720    1       12 ,900      9,720    1        12,900      9,720
Runabout                              9,600     6,4o    1 i       8,6oo       6,480    1        8,6oo      6,480    1         8,6oo      6,9So    1         18,oo      6,48o    1          oo8,bQ    i,40o
Subtotal                                          38,700     29,160             3          270  09,160       38,700     29,160             38,700      29,160            38,700      29,160      193,500    i45,80o
Other RFnning Costs
Office                              20,000      5.000            20,000      5,000             20,000      5,000             20,000      5,000            20,000       5,000             20,000      5,000
Audio-Visual Production              10,0O0    6,000             10,000      6,ooo             10,000      6,0oo             10,000      6,ooo             10,000      6,ooo             10,000      6,000
Subtotal                                          30,000     11,000             30,000     11,000            30,000     11,000             30,000      11,000            30,000      11,000      150,000     55,000
Maintena-ce
Equipment and Furniture (5)                                       2,467         617             2,467        617              2,467        617              2,467        617              2,467        617        12,335      3,085
Total                                         358,843    138,777            358,843    138,777           358,843    138,777            358,843    138,777            358,843    138,777    1,794,212    693,885           395
Costs Attributable to the
C ijiggosts A Ri e tProject -118,418    45,796                                               118,418     45,796            118,418    45,796             118,418     45,796            118,418    45,796        592,090   228,980
1!  Other staff neebero of LMVB are e-pected to participate in the implementation of the Project en a part-time basio since  thb time required
for their participation is difficult to estimate, they hars not been included in the above table.
2/  One-third of renurrent .oats nre being nharged to sash of the three shb-projeste.
JOly 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELAINDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jilfeem
Total InvestWent Costs
(Eth$ '000)
Ivet-et                             yerI                                          Year 2                                      Year 3                                       Tear 4                                        Year 3                                      Yea  1.5
caitooRy              Local            FE          Total          Loca             FE           Total          Local            FE           Total          Lo-al            E4           Total          Local            FE            Total          LoCal           FE            Total
Capital Costs
Range Hanage=ent             140           185            325            131            59             190             24              3             27              2              1              3                                                         297            248          .;.i
Veterin-ry Se-i-yeo          285           490            775            101            184            285              E             19             27                                                                                                      394            692           1.016
Wvter Development             30            61             91            242            362            604             28             15             43             22              8             30              8              2              10           330            448             778
Program
Sos1l1holder Fattening        bE           126            214              6             18             24                                                                                                                                                    95            143             238
Roads                        104           268            372             32             53             85             32             53             85                                                                                                      169            373          __w
Training  -nd Inorr.         109            173           282             25            114            139              6             51             57              2            28              30                                                         142            366             Soo
Trials sod Studies           143           171            314             25             12             37             24             12             36                                                                         6 95            65           191            261             4
Project Adm.                 680           436          1,116                                                                                                                                                                                                690            436           1.115
M5 Liveostock Dev.           199           122            321                                                                                                                                                                                                199            122             321
Iepartpneot
Sbtotal             1,778         2,032          3,810            562            802          1.364            122            153            275             26            37              6               :                                         ,             3,09           5.586
7nvestment Onnerfv.tt
Range thMngem=et             176             86           262            194             89            283            234             91            325            234            91             325            221             42             263         1,061            398           1.459
Vmtntmr-y S-roioen           198            109           307            361            171            532            413           100             593            405           131             536            402            131             536         1,780            723           2.503
Water Dev. Program             9             11            20             14             12             26             17            16              30             17                            31             17             14              31            75             65             140
SmallHolder Fattooieg         57            59            116             74            66             140             74            66             140             74            66             140             60             17              77           338            276            614
Roade                        318            45            363            565            45             610            595            47             642                                                                                                    1,470            137           1,1
Tr_lstog and Inforn.          77             17            94             92             29            121             94             29            123             94            29             123             94             29            123            450            133            583
Trioal  aod Studi-s          158             75           233            162             77            239            162             72            239            153            29             191            133             20             181           787            296           10
Project Adiontiet-otio       273            18            291            297             18            315            297            18             315            292            18             315            297             18            315          1,459             90          1_349
LI3 Live-tock Dev.
Depert-rnt                  72            46            110             72            46             118            72             46             118            72             46             118            72             46             118            364           228             592
Subtotal            1,338           466          1 80,          1,831           5S3           9,b4          1 058            568           2,026         1,346            423           1,769         1,319             325          1.644          7,792          2,336         10,128
Working Capital
8S.llholder Fatt-ning         53                           53            205                           205            590                           590            702                           702           630                            650          2.200
Grand Totel         3,169         2,490          3,667          2,598         1,355           3,903         2,670            721           3,391         2,076            460           2,534         1,977             392          2,369         12,489          5425          1794_
(Hase Coitl
Phyatral Conrlegenotoa
(107.)                    317            200           568            260            135            395            267             72            339            207            46             253            197             39             236         1,249            542          1,791
SHbtotel            3,486         2,748          6,235          2,850         1,490          4,3.8          2,937            793           3,730         2,281            506           2,787         2,174             431          2,605         13,738         5,967          19.705
Price Contingont-ee
(107,)                    349            275           624            600            313            912            972            262          1,235          1,058           234           1,293          1,326            263          1,589          4,305          1,347          5,652
Grn  Ttl            3,835         3,023          6,059          3,458         1,803           5,261         3,909          1,055           4,065         3,339            740          4,080          3,500             694          4.194         18,043          7,314         23,357
FE 29%
June 16, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELORMENT PROJECT
Jiiigma
Suovare of ProjeCt Costs 1/
(EthS '000)
________ Year 1                            year 2                  -------- Year 3 -----            ------          4-----                      Year=              Yearl-5 
esnst CategorY                                            Local        FE        Total      Local       FE        Total       Local       FE        Total      Local        F                                                           l        E        Total
Capital Costs
Range MnegEeent                                               70         93        163         135        123        258          90         31        121           2          1          3         -            -         -         297        248         545
Veteroars' Services                                          142        245        387         193        337        530          58        111        169           -          -          -         -            -         -         393        693       1,086
Water Developctsnt Program                                    15         30          45        136        211        347         149        196        345         22           8         30         8            3         11        330        448         778
Osallholder Fattening                                         44         63        107          50         81        131          -          -          -           -           -          -         -            -         -          94        144         238
Roads                                                         52        134         186         68        161        229          49         78        127           -          -          -         _            -         _         169        373         542
Training and ICformation                                      54         87         141         67        144        211          19        109        127          2          27         29         _            -         -         142        366         508
Trials and Stodiso                                            72         85         157         96         98        194          23         13         36          -                                            65         65        191        261         452
Project Administratioc                                       340        218        558         340        218        558          -          -          -           -                                   _  _                          9680       436      1,116
LM8 Heed Quarters Staff                                      100         61        161          99         61        160          -          -          - .  _                             - _  _                           -                    122         321
Sub-total                                               889      1,016      1,905      1.184      1.44       24618         388        537        925          26         36          u         8           68         76      2.495      3.Q01       5.586
Investsent Operatitg Coats
Rage Menagenent                                              123         60         183        194         89        283        234          91        325        234         91        325         221         42        263       1,006        373      1,379
Veterinar-y soricca                                          139         76         215        361        171        532        413         180        593        405        131         536        405        131        536       1,723        689      2,412
Water Developoert                                              6           8         14         14         12         26          17         14         31         17         14          31         17         14          31         71         62         133
10callholdct Fattening                                        40         41          01         74         66        140          74         69        140         74         66         140         60         17          77        322        236        078
RSald                                                        223         31        254         565         45        610        595         47         642          --                     -          -                      -      1,383        123      1,006
Tr-Lolog end Informtion                                       54         12          66         92         29        121         94          29        123         94         29         123         94         29         123        428        128        0558
Trials and Studies                                           510         53         163        162         77        239         162         77        239        153         28         181        153          28        181        740        263      1,003
Project Admini9tratimn                                       191         13        204         297         18        315        297          18        315        297         19        315         297         19        305       1,369         85      1,454
121  lead Quarteec Staff                                      50         32          82         72         46        118          72         46        118         72         46         118         72         46         118        338      _1_6          554
Sub-total                                             9222        .96       1.2I-      1,31         553      2,384       1,958        568      2,52       1.346        423       1.769      1.309        325       1,634      7 380      2.195       9.575
Working Cepital
Smallholder Fattening                                         -          -          -          258        -          258        596         -          590        702         -          702        650          -         650      2,200         -       2,200
459
Total (Bace Cost)                               1,823      1.342      3.167      3-2         1,987      3,260      2,936      1,105      4,041       2.074        49       2.533       1 967        393      2,360    12,075        5,296     17.361'
Physical Contingenico (10%)                                 183        134        317         327        199        526        294         110       404         207         46       22           la          _u        2         1.           2l       1,736
slb-total                                            2.008      1.476       3.484      3,600      2,186      5.786      3,230      1L215       4,445      2.281         505      2.L86      2.164         432      2.I5    13.283        5,915      19.097
Pacc Contitgen.ici  (10%)                                    200        1     48     349       810        491      1,301      1,130        425       1.535      1.095        242      1,337       1.363        272      1,635       4,599      1.578      8,178
GB4N0  TOTAL                                    2_209      1,625      3.834      4,410       2.673      7.087      4.360      L640       6 000      3.376         747      4.123      3.527         704      4,231     17,882       7,393     25,275
1/ On the .asumptio- that it would rot be possible for Prejsct manage-et toamr7y oat the iovetmeflt p-ogr:m  -chodiled for yost I a: shown in the Tt11 Inovestment Cost Table, * modified i.ple...tation
sahedalo hbo  b..e  prepared    sod Total Costs rev-i:d accordingly.  So effect, one half of the empeaditarns  -choduled to he made it  y-e  1 have been moved to year 2, AMd sImilar adju.t.ents  -ade for
years 2, 3 o,d 4. It is assumed that any deloys in ioplomentatLom could be nado up in year 5 sod that the Pcoject .ould bh completod on sbhedule.
Noosber 12, 1975



u >|      8o            o                                       0i4<                      Table 41
01            >1           01                    0N                              -1 n- 
1                             ~~~~~~~o    0                              8
0I                                        0                    ao
I                                                             NI 001
C1       8                          
o ~ ~~~                   o
~' 4)1  0    00)
0     IC          =            e                                              V       
O                 0   000    10       00   0        000 0                                      
0                 0   000    0        00 0          00         0 0                                 
A0                000                                          01           01 4NNIL  DINNN N NN e NNV
0     00a             00             0000                 0> 0      :      00 _nQN   94COxeI
0  80 o 80 ,,                     00NO00al  0                             00n  
0i  U 1  4                                                0 I_0N     
U 0                            ^    00 00   K0  0 N                                0COO   
O  00              00 U0  0    00 )  O                          0)  0        0l _     _N
g ~ ~ ~ ~ O J              0    Ooa                          0        0 C 
0.0000           0           0l  >00000 t               0000S
000 10  00                  .0  0000                0  00.           0  04                 0          
0l             4)           00   1 } u   oQX                   ooo>   
00o  a         0 a a0  0Ix< 2,=2t:                                  ,X



ETHIOPIA
RANGEL&NDS DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT
Northeast RsnRelands
Range Manage-ent - Recurrent Costa
(Eth$)
Unit                               Yeer 1                               year 2                               Yer- 3                               Year 4                               Year 5                           Year 1-5
Caitcorn              Cost            FE        No.      Total             FE       N0.       Total             FE       No.       Total             FE       No.       Tot.l             FE       N.        Tutul             FE       Total            FE
Wages and Salaries
Read of Depentrent            70,000       49,000        1        70,000       49,000         1        70,000       49,000         1       70,000        49,000         1       70,000        49,000         1       15,000
Lund Use Planeing Officer      9,600                     1         9,600
R-ngs Reaerve Officer          6,000                     1         6,000                      1         6,000                      1        6,000                       1        6.000                       1        6,000
Reege Assistanta               6.000                     2        12,000                      2        12,000                      2       12,000                       2       12.000                       2       12,000
R-nge Wardens                  2,400                     5        12,000                     10        24,000                     15       36,000                      15       36,000                      15       36,000
Range Guarda                     900                    35        31,500                     50        45,000                     75       67,500                      75       67,500                      75       67,500
Surveyona                      5,400                     2        10,800
Surneyor Lbo-rer                 900                     8         7,200
Driners                        2,400                     4         9,600                      4         9,600                      4        9,600                       4        9,600                       4        9,600
Subtotel                                                     168,700        49,000                166,600        49,000                201,100       49,000                 201L100       49,000                 146.100                    883.600      196,000
Pe- DiRe                                                          24,730                              11,530                               11,530                               11,530                               11,530
Langoage AlIowance                                                 8,200                               8,200                                8,200                                8,200                                8,200
Penaiou Fund & Post                                                9,798                               9,636                               11,706                               11,706                                8,406
Allowances 1/
Subtotal                                                      42.728                               29.366                               31.436                               31.436                               28.136                     163,102
Vehicle Running Coat
St-tion Wag-o & Pickups        8,640        6,480        3        25.920       19,440         3       25.920        19,440         3       25,920        19,440         3       25,920        19,440         3       25.920                     129,600      97,200
SuPplica                                                             6,240        4,370                  8,640         6,050                  8,640         6,050                  8,640         6,050                  8,640         6,050        40.800       28,570
Mkintnga-ce
HRemin                                                                                                10,487           371                  1,962           490                  1,962           490                  1,962           490
Equlip-nt and Furniture                                                                                1,026           256                  1,026           256                  1,026           256                  1,126           256
Sobthti1                                                                                            2.513           627                  2 988           746                  2.988           746                  2.988           746       11.477        2,865
Gcaud Total                                                  243 588        72,810                233 039        75,117                270,084       75,236                 270.084        75,236                211.784        26,236    1,228.579      324F635
PE 26%
A nop of 6% of total saluries and weges  a. takon to cover fItone pension co-it-nts cud hardship post allow-n-es forc-rtaiu c-tegories of staff.
2/ h ousing 2.52 of original i-evetent etarting year 2.  Frniturn and gqip..nt t57. of or-igial ine-t-ten  cost  ter-ting year 2.                                                                                                                                8
July 7, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Veterinary Service - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost                      Year I                                 Year 2                              Year 3                                 Total 1-5
Investment Category                Unit         Total            FE        No.      Total             FE         No.       Total             FE       No.      Total             FE               Total             FE
Houses and Other Buildings
Senior Veterinary Officer            No.           35,000       10,000         1      35,000        10,000
Veterinary Officer                    "            13,500        4,000                             -                 1       13,500          4,000
Animal Health Assista,t               "            13,500        4.Q,00        2      27,000          8,000          2       27,000          8,000
Vaccinators i/                                      1,900          6!I0        4       7,600          2,400          8       15.200          4,800
Field Stations .                                   18,000        5,400         2      36,000        10,800           2       36,000         10,800
Veterinary Office                     "             4,800        1,440         1       4.800          1,440          1        4 800          1,440
Drug Supply Store                                  14,400        4,800         1      14 400         4,800
Sub-Station Store 2                                 1,200          360         2       2,400            720          2        2,400            720
Subtotal                                                                         127,200        38,160                   98,900        29,760                                                  226.100       67,920
Vehicles
4x4 LWB Station Wagon                No.           28,000       21,000         1      28,000        21,000
4x4 LWB Pickupn                                    23 500       17,500         2      47,000        35               3       /0,300        52,500
Trailers                             "             6,000        4,000          3      18,000        12,000          3        18,000        12 000
Subtotal                                                                          93.000        68,000                   88.500        64,500                                                  181,500      132,500
Eaoipment and Furniture
Field Stations                       Set           11,280        7,896         2      22,560        15,792          2        22,560        15,792
Vaccinators                                         1,164          816         4       4,656         3,264          4         4,656         3,264
Veterinary Scoots                                     312          216        20       6,240         4,320         20         6,240         4,320        20       6,240         4,320
Supply Drugs Unit                                   6,000       4,200          1       6,000         4,200
Furniture Senior Vet. Off.                          3,000        2,100         1       3 000         2,100
Vet. Office                                         1,000          708         1       1,000           708          1         1,000            708
ARA Office                                            342          240         2         684           480          2           684           480
Radio Transceiver                    No.            6,000       4,500          3      18,000        13,500          2        12 000         9,000
Subtotal                                                                          62.140        44,364                   47.140        33,564                6,240         4,320              115.520       -82,248
Camping Equipment
Vet. Officers                        Set            1,350        1,010         1       1,350         1,010          1         1,350         1,010
Animal Health Assistant                               700          500         2       1,400         1,000          2         1,400         1,000
Vaccinators                                           700          500         4       2,800         2,000          8         5,600         4,000
Drivers                                               700          500        3        2,100         1,500          3         2,100         1,500
Subtotal                                                                           7.650         5,510                   10,450         7,510                                                   18,100       13,020
Start Up Stocks                                                                        100,000        79,480                                                                                         100.000       79,480
Grand Total                                                                      389,990       235,514                                135,334                6,240        4,320                            375,168    FE 58%
1/ Vaccinators hosses supplied at field stations and sob-stations.
2/ Sub-station store to be build in conjonction with vaccinators houses at 4 community development centers in project area.
3/  Drugs                            Eth$80,000
Spraying eqsipment, dips, etc. "  20,000 - Eth$100,000
June 24, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGEL4NDS DEVELOPEMNT PROJECT
Northeast Renanland.
Veteni.a"r  Servicea -   ,Rr--t Costs
(Eth$)
Unit                                 Year 1                                Yeer 2                                Year 3                                 Year 4                                Yeor 5                              Tror 1-5
Coat             FE        Eo0       iotal             Ft        No.       Total             FE        No.       Total              FE        No.       Total             FE        No.       Total              FE         T-a1         __ FE
Wages and Ealaries
Senior Vete-in-ry OMppter              70,000       49,000          1       70,000        49,000          1        70,000        49,000         1        70,000        49 000         1        70O000         49,000         1        15,000
Veterin- ry 0fflcer                     13 680                                                            1        13,680                       1        13,680                        1        13 680                       1        13,680
AEn.al Health A.a.it..tt                 5,900                      2        11.800                       4        23,600                       4        23,600                        4        23,600                       4        23,600
Vteator-                                1,500                       4         6,000                       8        12,000                       8        12,000                        8        12,000                       8        12,000
Veterit-ry Scoots 1/                     1,440                     20        28,8000                     40        57,600                      60        68,400                       60       86,400                       60        06,400
DrivorO                                 2,400                       3        7,200                        6        14,400                       6        24,400                       6         14,400                       6        14,400
Sobtotal                                                               123.800        49,000                 191,280        49,000                 220,080        49,000                  220,080        49,000                 165,080                       920,320        196,000
PFr Di.H 2/                                                                 18,250                                 36,500                                36,500                                36,500                                 36,500
Lang9age AllooHt      /                                                       1,180                                 3,710                                 3,710                                  3,710                                 3,710
Pe-sion Fund (6%)-                                                           7,428                                 11,476                                13,204                                13,204                                  9,04
Subtot.l                                                                26,858                                51,686                                53,414                                 53.414                                50,114                       235,486
Vehicle Running Costs
Stetion Wagon and Fickops               8,640        6,480          3       25 920         19,440         6       51,840         38,880        6         51 840        38,880         6        51,840         38,880         6        51,840        38,880         233,280       174,960
Other Euonnin Costa
AnnuaH Nerlsane=ets
Fitld Stati.o.                          2,520         1,884                                               2         5,040         3,768         4        10,080         7,536         4         10,080         7,536         4        1000          7,536
Va.cioOtors                               360           240                                               8         2,880         1,920         a         2,880         1,920         8         2,880          1,920         0         2,880         1,920
Veterinary Scooro                         102            72                                              20         2,040         1,440        40         4,080         2,880        60         6,120          4,320        60         6,120         4,320
Supplies
Aninal NH-lth As.iatarte                  384           300         2           768           600         4         1,536         1,200         4         1,536         1,200         4          1,536         1,200         4         1,536          1,200
V .. EOto.S                               300           240        4         1,200            960         8         2,400         1,920         8         2,400         1,920         8         2,400          1,920         8         2,400         1,920
Field 8tatro.                             300           240         2          600            480         4         1,200           960         4         1 200           960         4         1,200            960         4         1,200            960
Veterin-ry 8coats                         252           204       20         5,040         4,080         40        10,080         8,160        60        15,120        12,240        60        15,120         12,240        60        15 120        12,240
Subtotal                                                                 7,608         6,120                  25,176        19,368                  37,296        28,656                   39.336        30,096                 39 36           30 096        148,754        114,336
Naitennance 5/
Hoaees .ad Other B.IldiEge                                                                                          3,180           715                   5,652         1,413                   5,652          1,413                   5,652         1,413
Equipmn.t 0nd Furait-re                                                                                             3,489           872                   6,229         1,557                   6,229          1,557                   6,229         1,557
Subtotal                                                                                                       6,669         1,587                  11,881          2,970                  11,881         2,970                  11.881          2,970         42,312         10,497
Grand Totol                                                            184,186        74,560                   65          108,835                 374_516       119,506                  306,551       120,946                 318,251         71,946      1,580,155        495,793
Ft 310,
1/  Veter-in-y tou-ts nalaoy includes Eth$50 Camel Allanoce.
2/  Vet-ritary Offi0cr          100 days nt Eth$ 28 - Eth$ 2,800
Animal H-1th A.seitatts  150                   13 -       1,950
V-i_ nator                  I50                 6 =         900
Driver-                     150                 9 =       1,350
3/  Lanuang. All-.anEe 107, of S-lary of Vetetlnt ry Offiter.
4/  A ear of 6, of total nalHrioa and  age-  -aa taken to rover futare pen-lon -oeoitOOots and hardship pott  alloan. os for certaia nategoties of  t-ff.
H -ousing aad uth-r buildioge 2,5', of original in-eetent etarting year 2.  Furaiture end eqaipmeat 5% of origina.tl Ee=t-et -coet etertiag your 2.
July 1, 1975



RANOELAtJO  DE000000N0  P601J0
IlaleProgra  - Ca1tala  Costa
Igneatmeet            OrEtOnat                          TearS~~~~~~~~~Y.                        Yea2                                    Ieat 3                                       4                                  Tet                              ot-ol-5
CaSan        t            Fta.l              FE        tO.       Total               FEp        No.        ote               FE         o.       Total               FEFE oa                                  T        N.          oa                 T       TtlF
tens  n  COttat It-      5O.            0,000         15,000          1        30.000         05,000
tes  oked Eat.
Ageet.                               33,000         10,000          1        355000         10,000
Mans Site F.,..
AetS-                                 1,900            000          1         1.900            000          3         5,000          1.000          3         5,700          1.000          3         5SlOE          1,8000
tote B.ildiega                          1,900            600          2         3.000          1.200          0        11.400          3,600          6        11,400         3.600          6         01,400          3.600
tabt-tl                                                                    90.10~0       26,600                  J.1710           5,400                   17.100          5,400                   Z7,100          5,400                                               140.000    45.000
anIldne-  0-4            too10,00                     03,000          0       200.0          16,0
ldrrTraln  50-I1,000                                7,000         I         10,0           7,00
OttTalr1,00-.2.0                                 0,000          1         2.600          1,000          1         2,600          1,600          0         5.000          3,600
Oater Pn,a                              1,600          1.000          0         3,000          2, 000         6         96,00          6.000         6          9,600         6,000          6          9,400          0,000
ST-ot-  06 ..P.                        10.000         11,000          I        01,000         11.000
4e4 10WB Piakapa                       23,500         00,500          3        00,500        32,500                                                  3        70,500         52,500          0        41,000          35,000          3        10,500         10,100
4e4 t1,t1  5 rae                       02,000         42,000          1        52,000        40,000                                                  0       101,000         64,011
SnbtneI                                                                  355.300        202,300                  1.2_20           1.000                  18,0           146,100                   50.400         41,000                   70,500         52,500       68_0    529,700
tE,,lria- nod Sattloe-
0oC.  E                   to               0                                                                10          1,000
OnoyjgOraE.g..                          2,000          2,030          3         8.200          0,090
Sa-oeple  S-t  Onpt-.                   1,200            040         4          4,8000         3,300
Oa-dtnnl  fa-neta  t                    1,500                                                                 09,0                                               ,000                        6          9,000                        0          9.000
-tP,  T3otp -lz                          1,300         1,010                                                  4         5,400         4,040
CanP.  qair. Class  to                    '000           500                                                 10         7,000         5,011
Enpatdablt Eqaipeo-                     4.500          2,2502                                                          900             4,500         0        20,000         13,500          6        11,000         13,500          6         21,000         13,500
Tape-debla Snppllee                    14,000          7,000                                                  2        20,0          14000           0         84.000        41,000          0        04,000         42,000          0         04,000         42,011
20 TM-                   Month             90                                                               24          2,100          -            12         6,480           -            12         6,400            -           12          6,4800
teleySta-te-Pet   Sea             3,200          1,000                                                            3,000          1,000                    3,200          1,000                    3,000          1,600                    3,200          1,600
SnbtetI                                                                   11.000          9,450                   5976           20,140                  1.29n680       S7TI00                  1129,a&          571,00                  1i29,6l         51,110       462,3G0   209,890
Pr btilito stadice
Cotante-   toot          -a/Mn-h   10,000             10,000                                                45       450.000        450,000         36       340,000        360,000
OOTS: 4 toeeoohi-ts. h/MootO              900            360                                                45        40,500         16.200         36        32,400         12,900
Otinpa   on          nttr                                                                                      115.500         03,300                   59,300         35,100
R-tk Drilli.g                         190,000         00,000                                                         150,000         00,000                  150,000         90,000
S.bi.1.1                                                                            7~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~40,Q 00 619,500    601L90l        490,060                                                                                     IJ7,0   1,110,000
Ctnr TrOela   tat note/Sent  010                                                                             1,530                                   6,090                                 10,590                                   15,060
Tareare aegee-               10~~~~,000                                                                      23,000                                 00,800                                  70,000                                  10,8000
Sobte-I                                                                                                           025.130                                 76.090                                 00 390                                   85.890                     269.300
Moagr ogoc-          Mo/teb           000                                                                3         2,400                         9         1,200                         9         7,200                         9          7,200
Irrlgntior EgloTana           ~~~800                                                             12          9,600                       36        08,800                        36        20,000                        36         20,000
n-oe..or.                                 450                                                                6         0,100                       18          0,100                       10          0,100                         0         0,100
Soptoolenre                    ~~~~~~~200                                                        10          3,000                       40         9,600                        40         9,600                        48          9600
loranto       Moo/Day           ~~~~~2.                                                      3,000          9,000                   10,000         01,000                   00,000         21,000                   10,00          21,00
t.-Ole    lon                          21.2                                                      460,000        200,000                 400,000        600,000                  480,000        600,000                   400,000        6001,001
00 Otaloete       00~t~/M-nh        125                                                                4           500                       12          1,500                       12          1,500                        Il         1,00
I.r-oot-tr              Mao/Year       0,300                                                                 4        6,000                        12         10,000                       12         10,000                        12        10,00
toorotl                                                                                                         233.400                                 700-200                                 100.200                                 1200200                    l.Y3_4,000
Onlldotare  Onor            25             1~~~~~~~~0 2,100                                             05,000        20,000    3,000          15,000         60,000     3,000         15,000         00,000      3,000        15,000         6,1
YataT Ponpa      ~Year              36               00.                                                            8 03Y                      .5          00             130         0.           1035                        13600                      210'
Y-a            1,0           5,400                                                  0.2       3,000          0,10            .3       300             ,0 0.5                  3,00 2,100                    1         1:,2100.0
4.a4 Lorr  I ro                        0340          10,00                                                            13,400         1000            3        40,200         30,000          3        40,200         3000            3         020            0,0
Oo-4 400 Oto                            8000          6,450                                                  0         9,00           0450           4        34,400         25,8D00        1         60,200         45,000         to        16,0000        04,500
SAtot-I5 102A                                                                                                                  099,200537j330                          118,635                 _119104         137,905                  ?208760        100,210       592_100    4 56 41 75
Orotl Totol                                          459,500~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  310,550        2 240.310        141,125               1 683 25,0901 6415                                       241,4051,95o~3    6,770o  5.031 000 2,356,621
Ct 40%.
1/   Pod  -oil fintoo  otY b ntototl-            n  Ih,a rateoh$00  p50 000/lap, 118 retdo-  reeld  hrO, th-otor  ta"Ile 0180000   11',00   tnllono  CO.
1.t1, 7, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E



ID  G I,     A]N~EX 15
01                          ~~      ~~~~1 IOr  T0ble 46
D]  ~    011i
1       *lil o-0
-4.1     0000   01  00008  'I         CI  1  0
l     80      08                            0      0
 000          e 000 1       0101l01
I              II.j0I 
1 m-
1 _      8S ESoW                      18s 
000                    0 sNQz<        
Z 2                 o     0    r>r
l    'i ~~~~~~~~4          c1
s./ ~ ~      ~      10 I           .00    -                    10
n~~~~~~00   0 I01 0o
(   P   eogs- 4 4e ~~~~~~loo      -1c



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Marketing and Crazier Scheme - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost                      Year 1                              Year 2                            Year 1-5
Investment Category               Unit        Total             FE       No.      Total            FE        No.      Total             FE        Total             FE
Houses
Project Marketing Officer           No.         35,000        10,000         1      35,000       10,000
Livestock Purchasing Officer        "           13,500         4,000         1      13,500        4,000
Subtotal                                                                        48.500       14,000                                             48,500        14,000
District MarketinR Centers -/
Office                              No.          4,800         1,400         1       4,800        1,400          1       4,800         1,400
Holding Pens                                        630          190         1         630           190         1         630           190
Crushes                                           1,600          480         1       1,600          480          1       1,600           480
Fencing of Pens                                   1,800          540         1       1,800          540          1       1,ROO           540
Subtotal                                                                         8.830        2,610                  8.830        2,610         17,660        5,220
Primary Markets
Market Fencing.                      No.          1,800          540         5       9,000        2,700          3       5,400         1,620
Grain Stores                         "           12,000        3,450         2      24,000        6,900         2       24,000        6,900
Subtotal                                                                        33.000        9,600                 29,400        8,520         62.400       18,120
Vehicles
4x4 LWB Pickups                     No.         23,500        17,500         2      47,000       35,000                                             47,000        35,000
Equipment
Refrigerators 2/                    No.             600          420         1         600          420          1         600          420
Office Class II                     Set             350          250         1         350          250         1          350           250
Camping Class I                                   1,350        1,010         1       1,350        1,010
Camping Class II                                    700          500         1         700          500
Miscellaneous                                       200          140         1         200          140          1         200           140
Subtotal                                                                         3,200        2,320                  1,150          810          4,350        3,130
Grand Total                                                                    140,530       63,530                 39,380       11,940        179,910       75,470
FE 24%/
1/ District marketing centers located at Shiket and Mille
2/  For storing of drugs at two district marketing centers.
June 24, 1975                                                                                                                                                             .r-



ETHIOPIA
RAHaELAND8 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
North ..at RanReland,
Marketin, and Grazier Schema - Recurrent Cost. and Working C.pital ReQuire-ents
(EthS)
Unit                       N        Yr I                                  Y  ear 2                              Ye-r 3                               YF Nc 4                              Year 5                             Year 1-5
catmaee'                 Cast              FE       No.,      Total             FE        N.        TtlFE                       N..      Total             FE        N.         oa               FE        o.       Total              FE         Total             FE
Waas and Salaries
frejeat Mhrketing Officer       12,000                      1        12,000                       1        12,000                      1        12,000                      1        12,000                       1        12,000
Livestetk Prchasiag Off.         5,900                      1         5,900                       1        5,900                       1         5,900                      1         5.900                       1         5,900
Fere_n                           1,500                      1         1,500                       2         3,000                      2         3,000                      2         3,000                       2         3,000
Holdieg Grcund tabur               540                      2           ,080                     4         2,160                      4         2,160                      4         2,160                       4         2,160
Drirer-                          2,400                      2         4,800                       2        4,800                       2         4,800                      2         4,800                       2         4.800
wards                              720                      2         1,440                       4         2,880                      4         2,880                      4         2,880                       4         2.880
S.btota1                                                        26,720                                30.740                                30.740                              30 740                                30.740                       149.680          -
Per Dim V/                       4,550                                4.550                                4,550                                 4,550                                4,550                                 4,550
Language Alleovnce             2/  600                                  600                                  600                                   600                                  600                                   600
Pasenti  Fund 6 PFet All_       2/ne-                                1,603                                 1,844                                1,844                                1,844                                 1,844
Subtota1                                                         6,753                                 6,994                6,994                                                6,994                                 6,994                        34.729
Vehiale RuEsins Caste              8,640        6,480         2        17,280        12,960         2        17,280        12,960        2        17.280       12,960         2        17.280        12,960         2        17.280        12,960         86.400         64,800
Nainta snc1
H-ouing                                                                                                    1,212           300                   1,212          300                   1,212           300                   1,212           300
District Marketing Centers                                                                                   441           110                     882          220                     882           220                     882           220
Prim" Market                                                                                               1,650           412                   3,120          780                   3,120           780                   3,120           780
Equip-nt                                                                                                      160           40                     217           54                     217            54                     217            54
Subtota1                                                                                               3.463           862                  5,431        1,354                   5,431         1,354                   5.431          1,354         19.756         4,924
W-oking Cosital
Gra.ier 8ch_m  4/                                                  135,000                                                                     270,000
brain PFr.hase                                                       24,000                                                                     24,000
Subtota1                                                       159.000                                                                    294,000                                                                                                 453,000
Grged Total                                                    209.753        12,960                  58.477        13,822                354 445       14,314                  60.445        14,314                  60.445         14,314        743.565        69,724
FE 9%
1/  PHO     100 days at EthS20 per day    Eths$2,000
LPO     150               9                 1 ,350
Drivear 2m150             6  "              1_800
Ethb4 550
2/ A am of 6% of totAl qSlarias sad  ages va  taken to goyer future pei.on comnitmants and hurdahip post alloema...  for nertai  categories of staff.
/ Housing 2.57. of original ievestneot starting year 2. District marketing nentere, primary markets sod equipmeot 5% of original I-nsetmant cost starting year 2.
4/ Fur purnhaae of nattle.
July 10, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Roads - Capital Costs
(Eth$ '000)
Unit Cost                     Year 1                             Year 2                             Year 3                             Year 1-3
Investment Category          Unit       Total             FE      No.      Total             FE      No.      Total             FE      No.      Total             FE        Total             FE
Equipment
Dump Truck 5 Ton               No.        52.0         ta 0           !      52.0         42.0
4x4 Pickup                     "          23.5          17.5          2      47.0         35.0
Water Trailer 1,000 lit.       "           2.2           1.8          2       4.4           3.6
Subtotal                                                                103.4         80.6                                                                                103.4         80.6
Miscellaneous
Survey Equipment               Set         8.5           6.0          2      17.0          12.0
Water drums                    No.         0.02          0.015       20       0.4           0.3
Camp Equipment                 Set                                           22.0         15.5
Wheel                          No.         0.07          0.04         8       0.6           0.3
Hand tools 1/                                                                 2.8           2.0                  2.5           1.8                   2.5          1.8
Black Smith Set                "           0.5           0.4          1       0.5           0.4
Cash Box                       "           0.5           0.4          2       1.0          0.8
Adding Machine                 "           0.95          0.8          2        1.9          1.6
Expendable Materials 2/                                               2      35.0         20.0                  35.0         20.0                   35.0         20.0
Radio Transceiver              "           6.0           4.5          5      30.0         22.5           2      12.0          9.0           3       18.0         13.5
Subtotal                                                                111.2         75.5                  49.5         30.8                  55.5         35.3          215.9        141.3
Grand Total                                                             214.6        156.1                  49.5         30.8                  55.5         35.3          319.6        222.6
FE 69b
1/ Eth$16 per man/year for road and airstrip construction.
2/  Includes cement, reinforcement, etc.
June 13, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                         X



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Roads - Recurrent Costs
(Eth$ '000)
Unit                          Year 1                                 Year 2                                 Year 3                               Year 1-3
Category                    Cost        FE        No.      Total              FE        No.       Total             FE        No.        Total              FE         Total              FE
Wages and Salaries
Chief Road Supervisor            9.6                   1        9.6                         1         9.6                          1         9.6
Road Supervisor                  7.2                   1        7.2                         1         7.2                          1         7.2
Drivers                          2.3                   3        7.2                         3         7.2                          3         7.2
Foremen                          1.2                   4        4.8                         4         4.8                          4         4.8
Laborers                         1.0 1/              145     145.0                        200       200.0                        200       200.0
Subtotal                                                 173.8                                  228.8                                 228.8                          631.4
Pension Fund & Post Allowances2                                10.4                                  13.7                                   13.7                          37.8
Running Costs
Dump Truck                      12.9        9.7        1      12.9            9.7           1        12.9           9.7            1        12.9           9.7
Pickup                           8.6        6.5        2       17.2          13.0           2        17.2          13.0            2        17.2          13.0
Maintenance of Equipment 3/                                    16.6          10.9                    16.6           10.9                    16.6           10.9
Subtotal                                                  46.7          33.6                     46.7          33.6                    46.7           33.6           140.1         100.8
Air Strip Construction
Labor Cost                                                      8.0                                                                                                        8.0
Road Maintenance during
Construction
Laborers 4/                                                                                          29.0                                   69.0
Hand Tools                                                                                            2.0            1.4                     4.0            2.8
Subtotal                                                                                         31.0           1.4                    63.0            2.8            94.0           4.2
Grand Total                                              238.9          33.6                    320.2          35.0                   352.2           36.4           911.3         105.0
FE 11.5%
1/ Cost per km.
2/  A sum of 6% of total salaries and wages was taken to cover future pension commitments and hardship post allowances for certain categories of staff.
3/ At 10/ per annum of original investment in equipment.
4/  At 20% per annum of labor construction cost.
July 1, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVEL0PHENT PROJECT
Northea6t Rateelands
Trainino and Information- Capicl Costs
(EthS)
UIt Cost                       y-a  I                               Year 2                                Yea  3                                Yar 4-                             Year 1-5
Inoen-N- ot Cateor-y          Unit        ToCtal            FE        No.       Total            PE         No.      Total             FE        No.       Total            FE         N_.       Total             FE         Total             FE
Hoo.ses .nd Other Buildings
Head of DePartment                No.        13,500         4,000          1       13,500        4,000
Training Cetsre'                             12,000         2.400          1       2.,DDD        4_BOG
T-ac-ettencoaarooo                            2,400           690          2        4,800        1 380
Farmer Trainers                               1,900           600          2        3,800        1,200
Subtotal                                                                       46,100       11,380                                                                                                                           46.100        11,380
Vehirle-
4n4 L11W Stti.on Wagons           No.        28,000        21,000          2       56.000       42,000                                                                                                                           56,000        42,000
Esoipenrt and Foreiture
Oxno                              Pair           350                       3        1,050
Cxen Implssemte                   Set            880                       1          880
Hand Tools                                      480                        1          480
TriigCenter-                                150            50         2        -300            100
Traini- g Canter Forniture                    1,800         1,260          2        3,600        2,520
Teacher At-oo,odatioo                            342          240          2          604           480
Sobhotal                                                                        6,994        3,100                                                                                                                            6,994         3,100
FellovehiP5 and Trening                                                            57,000       51,000                  57.000        51,000                  57,000       51,000                   30.000       28,000         201.000       181,000
Grand Total                                                                   166.094      107,480                  5             51,000         >     XX000           51,002                  30.000        28,000         310.094       237.480  FE 76.
May 3, 1975



ETHIOPA
RAN'EIANDS DOEVEIOP14NT PROJECT
Northeast tanoslands
Training and rnfsrr.anon-Rerorre--t CoSta
(Eth$)
C.teg."                                                                                                                        yg~~~~~~~~~er    Ca  2FaC 3             Yasr 4                                 Fear 3                                er  .
Cateaors                  Coot                FE        No.       Tteli             FE         No.       T    2Tl           FE        No.       Tt                 FO        No.        Total              FE        N..       Total              FE         Total               FE
Wases sad Salaries
He-d of Dop-rtrs.t                    9,60D                        1         9,600                        1         9,600                        1         9,600                         1         9,600                        1         9,600
Sup.rviso-e                           1,500                        2         3,000                        2         3,000                        2         3,000                         2         3,000                        2         3,000
F-rrer Trainer-                       1,500                        2         3,000                        2         3,000                        2         3,000                        3          3,000                        3         3,000
Drivers                               2.400                        2         4,800                        2         4,800                        2         4,800                         2         4,000                        2         4,800
hoards                                  720                        4         2,880                        4         2,880                        4         2,880                        4          2,880                        4         2,880
Sobtotal                                                               23,280                                 23_280                                 23,280                                  23.280                                  23 280                       116,400
Fer Dit1                                                                     1,600                                  1,600                                  1,600                                   1,600                                  1,600
Feinstn Fund6 Post Al1lo-.nn-'           3                                   1,397                                  1,397                                  1,397                                   1,397                                  1,397
S.bt.t.17                                                                                                       g 2,997                                2,997 2971,8
VeREtte 5(055555 Casts
4.4 1.kB Ststito  Wagon               8,640         6,480          2        17,280        12,960          2        17 280         12,960         2        17,280         12,960         2         17.280        12,960          2        17 280         12,960         86.400         64,800
Other R.-inrD Coats
Tr.isi.g A11Oe-s.  MKalak               180                       30         5,400                       45         8,100                       45         8,100                       60         10,800                       60        10,800
Oraisi.g Allosa..e:
Cq= sity Dev.  Officer                10                         4          720                        4           720                        4           720                        4            720                        4           720
ssppliss Irrigstion                     995                                    9 55                                   955                                    955                                     955                                    955
Subtotal                                                                7.075                                 9.,7 75                                  9,775                                 12,12 475                                                             51.575
EqoPes atd Building-                                                                                                1,152            288                   1,152            288                    1,152           288                    1,152            288
Eqssip.esst cad Furniture                                                                                             349             87                     349             87                      349             87                     349             87
Subtotel                                                                                                       31,501           375                    1.501           375                    ]501             375                    1,501            375          6.004          1,500
Gr-d Total                                                             50 632         12,960                  54,833                                  54,833        13,335                   57,533         13,335                  57_533         13,335         275.364        66,300
Ft 24%
1/  A sue of 67 of total salaries sad ngou sos   t.k-s to rover foture passion cositnents and hardship post allowastes for  -ertain cot. ories f staff.
2/  Housing and other boildings 2.37 of ori-inal inve..te-t starting ye-r 2.  F-rnit-re ssd rq.ip-not 5T of origi-al invest e                  -t rot st-rting year 2.
July 10, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            III



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Trials and Studies - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost                     Year I                             Year 5                           Year 1-5
Investment Category          Unit         Total           FE        No.     Total            FE        No.     Total            FE         Total            FE
Housing
Agr. Economist's House           No.          13,500        4.000         1      13,500      ':,000
Subtotal                                                                     13.500       4,000                                            13,500        4,000
Vehicles
4x4 LWB Station Wagon            No.          28,000       21,000        1       28,000      21,000
Subtotal                                                                    28,000       21,000                                            28.000       21,000
EquiPment
Camping Class I                  Set           1,350        1,010        2        2,700       2,020
Camping Class II                 "               700          500        3        2,100       1,500
Subtotal                                                                     4,800        3,520                                             4.800        3,520
Aerial Survey                                                                                                        136.884     136,884        136,884      136,884
Grand Total                                                                 46,300       28,520               136.884      136,884        183.184      165,404
FE 90%
May 7, 1975                                                                                                                                                         i



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Ranzelands
Trials and Studies - Recurrent Co=ts
(Eth$)
Unit                              Year I                             Year 2                             Year 3                             Year 4                              Yeer 5                           Year 1-3
Category                            Cost             FE       No.      Total            FE       No.     Totel             FE       No.     Tote1             FE       No.      Total            FE       N..      Total             FE        Total            FE
Wares eod Salaries
Ag,E-.Icnoot                            9,600                      0       9.600                      1       9,600                     1        9,600                     1        9.600                      0        9.600
Driver                                  2,400                     1        2,400                     1        2,400                     1        2,400                     1        2.400                     1        2,400
E.umerato.s                             1,800                     3        5,400                     3        5,400                     3        5,400                     3        5,400                     3        5,400
Subtotal                                                              17,400                             17,400                             17.400                             17.400                             17,400                      87,000
Pee Dieu                        1/      1,600                              1,600                              1,600                              1,600                              1,600                              1,600
Pension F-nd& Foot Allow-ces                                              1,044                              1,044                              1,044                              1,044                              1,044
Subtotal                                                               2,644                              2.644                              2.644                              2.644                              2.644                      13,220
Vehicle Running Coats                     8,640         6,480                8.640        6,480                 8.640        6,480                 8.640        6,480                 8.640        6,480                  8.640        6,480        43.200       32,400
Other RunninR Costs
Field Expeuses                             208                               864                                864                                864                                864                                 864                      4,320
Maintenance 3
Nouses                                                                                                          435          108                   435          108                   435           108                   435          108
Equipment                                                                                                       240           60                   240           60                   240            60                   240           60
Subtotal                                                                                                    675          168                   675          160                   675          168                   675           168         2,700          672
Grand Total                                                           29.548        6,480               30,223         6,648                30.223        6,648               30.223         6,648                30.223         6,648       150,440       33,072
FE 22X
1/  A sum of 6X of total s-laries and wogos one taken to cover future pension co-mmirtnts and hardship poot allowances fo-  -ertain categories of staff.
2/  Eth$ 24/month/eonuerator.
3/  Noosing 2.5% of original i-vestment starting year 2.  Fur-iture and equipment 5X of origi-al in-est-nt coot sta-ting year 2.
July 2, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Northeast Rangelands
Services and Supplies Program - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost                       Year 1                               Year 2                              Year 1-5
Investment Category                Unit          Total            FE         No.     Total             FE        No.      Total             FE          Total             FE
Houses and Buildings
Head of Program                      No.           13,500        4,000          1       13,500        4,000
Manager Central Depot                 "            13,500        4,000          1       13,500        4,000
Storemen                              "             1,900           600         5        9,500        3,000          3        5,700        1,800
Central Store                         "            14,400        4,320          1       14,400        4,320
Community Center Stores               "             1,200           360         5        6,000        1,800          3        3,600        1,080
Subtotal                                                                           562900        17 120                  9 3no         2,880         66,200        20,000
Vehicles
4x4 Lorry 5 Ton                       No.          52,000       42,000          1       52,000       42,000
4x4 LWB Pickup                        "            23,500       17,500          1       23,500       17,500
Subtotal                                                                           75,500       59,500                                               75,500        59,500
Equipment
Central Depot                         Set          20,400       14,280          1       20,400       14,280          -
Community Stores                                    1,200           360         5        6,000        1,800          3        3,600        1,080
Subtotal                                                                           26,400        16,080                  3,600         1,080         30,000        17,160
Startup Stocks
Medical Stocks                                     36,000       28,800                  36,000       28,800
Fuel                                                  936           660                    936          660                   3,900        2,750
Agr. Supplies                                      81,552       14,880                  81,552       14,880
Subtotal                                                                          118,488       44,340                   3,900         2,750        122,388        47,090
Grand Total                                                                       277,288       137,040                 16,800         6,710        294.088       143,750
FE 48%
May 7, 1975
5 R
m M
U, -
U, L.



ETHIOPIA
RANGEILANDS DEVE1LOPOIENT PROJECT
Northeastt RenRelands
Services and Supplies Program - Recurrent Costs
(Eth$)
Voit                             Yot    1                          Yoar  2                           Year  3                           Year  4                            Year  5                          Year  1-5
Categorv                      Cost            FE      No.      ToteS            FE      No.      Total            FE      NH.      Tote             FE       No      Total             FE      No.      Tstal            FE        Total            FE
Wslaet cod Salariee
Heed of Program                       9,000                     1       9,000                     1       9,000                     1        9,000                    1        9,000                     1        9,000
M-aager Coettal Dopot                 6,000                     1       6,000                     1        6,000                    1        6,000                     1       6,000                     1        6,000
St.ree._                              2,400                     5      12,000                     8      19,200                     8       19,200                    8       19,200                     8       19,200
Drivers                               2,400                     2       4,800                     2       4,800                     2       4,800                     2        4,800                     2       4,800
Store A_sictoetr                        720                     1          720                    2        1,440                    2        1,440                    2        1,440                     2        1,440
Guards                                  720                     5       3,600                     8       5,760                     8       5,760                     8        5,760                     8        5,760
Sbtotal                                                           36.120                            460200                            46,200                             46.200                            46.200                    220.920
Per Ditemsl                      2/                                     1,500                             1,500                              1.50n                             l.son                              1,500
Pension Food  & Feat Allooaceee-                                        2,167                             2,772                              2,772                             2,772                              2,772
S8btotal                                                            3.667                             4 272                           4.272                                4,272                             4.272                      20,755
Vehicle Ruseing Ca-te
4x4-LWB Pickhp                        8,640        6,480        1        8,640       6,480        1       8,640        6,480        1        8,640       6,480         1       8,640        6,480        1        8,640        6,480
4x4 Lorry 5 Toe                      12,960        9,720        1      12,960        9,920        1       12,960       9,920        1       12,960       9,920         1      12,960        9,920        1       12,960        9,920
subtotal                                                           21.600       16,200               21.600       16,200               21,600       16,200                21,600       16,200               21.600       16,200       108,000       81,000
Mainctenance -/
Hoseos and Stores                                                                                         1 422          355                 1,655         413                 1,655          413                 1,655          413
Equipment                                                                                                  1,320          330                1,500          375                1,500          375                10500           375
Subtotal                                                                                              2.742          685                3,155          788                 3,155          788                3.155          788        12,207        3,049
Greed Total                                                        61.387       16,200               74 814       16,885               75.227       16,988                75,227       16,980               75.227       16,988       3             84,049
FE 23/.
1/ Head of PFrogra  100 days at Eth$9 - Eth$  900
Dri-er           100 doys at Eth$6 = Ech$  600
Eth$1,5DO
2/ A sum of 67. of totol solsties ad cages woe token to covec fotoro p-enionctommit-entt and hardship past allowances for certain  -otogt-its of staff,                                                                                                         OFt
3/ Hoase- .nd st-en   2.5% of originol ince.t-ent C-tfrrfg year 2   Fareiture and equipment 57. of original icnvstment test sltting y-e  2.
July 2, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Project Administration - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost                     Year 1                             Year 2                         Year 1-5
Category                                Unit      Total         FE        No.      Total        FE           No.      Total        FE            Total          FE
Souse and Buildings
Hlead of Departments                          No,    50,000       15,Coo        3      150,000    45,000
Senior Staff                                  No.    35,000       10,000        5      175,000    50,000
Office Block                                  m2         240           72   1,100      264,o0o     79,200
Garage                                        m2         120           36     125       15,0oo      4,500
Guest and Club House                                 72,000       24,o0o        1       72,000    24,ooo
Project Development Officer                   No.      1,900          600       5        9,500      3,000          3      5,700      1,800
Rest Houses                                   No.      1,900          600       5        9.500      3,000          3      5,700      1,800
Subtotal                                                                            695,ooo   208,700                  11.4o0      3,600            706.400   212,300
Architect Fees 'i0o)                                                                    69,500                            1,140                        70.640
infrastructure
Perimeter Fencing                             km       2,000       1,COOO       4        8,OQO      4,000
Installation of' "tilities                           30,000       15,000                30,000    15,000
Access Roads                                  Ins    10,000        3,300        2       20,000     6,601
Subtotal                                                                             58,0oo     25,600                                               58,ooo    25,600
Vehicles
4 x 4 LWB Station Wagon                       No.    28,000       21,000        1       28,000    21,000
4 x 4 LWE  Pick-up                            No.    23,500       17,500        1      23,500    17,501
Breakdown Lorry                               Nu.    62,oono      49,000        1      62,000    49,001
Subtotal                                                                            113,500    87,501                                               113o500    87,500
Equipment
Tools for Carage                              Set    18,000       12,600        I       18,000    12,600
Radio Transceiver                             No.     6,0oo        4,500        2       12,000     9,000
Office Equipment                              Set    22,000       io,Loo        1       22,000    15,4OO
Office Furniture Class i                      Set      1,000          700       9        9,000     6,301
Office F rniture Class II                     Set        350         250        8        2,800     2,001
Camp Equipment Class I                        Set     1,350        1,010        3        14,05O     3,030
Camp 7Fquipment Class IT                      Set        701         500        7        4,900     3,500
Spare Parts                                   Set    10,000        9,000               10, 000     9, 000
Subtotal                                      82,750    60,830                                                                                       82,750    60,830
Grand Total                                                                       1018,750   382,630                   12,540     3,600          1,031,290   386,2X0         FF 35
May 8, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast oagolsods
Project Adsinostratios - Recurrent Cost
(Rth$ )-
loit                        Year 1                           YPea 2                            YTar 3                          Yesr 4                           Year 5                        Yesr 1-5
OstE0Orp                      CooL       FP           Ho.     Total        PE         No.     Tott         PB          No.     Ootsl        FE          No.     Total        FE          No.     Total        FE         TPLal           FE
Wages sad Salsries
Project Director                             24,000                 1        A4,ooo                  1       ',000 144,oo                                            1        24,000                  1        24,000
Head of Fisancial sod Admi. S-eri 1ces        2,000                 1        12,000                  1       32,000                   1        2,t00                   0       12,000                   1       12,000
Head of Tochaical Services                   12,000                 1            0S,o0               1        12,000                  1       12,C00                   1       12,000                   1       12,000
Chtef IA-oontann                              7,200                 1            H2                  1        '(,20)                  1        7,200                   1        7,200                  1         7,200
Personnel Offirer                             78oo 800                                               1        '7,800                  1        7,800                   1        7,800                  1         7,800
Accoutat Clerk                                4200                  1         4 200                  1        4,200                   1        4,000                   1        4,200                  1         4,200
SHect_e._                                     7,200                 2        1400                    2       14,4oo                  ?        o4,4oo                  2        1i, 4o                  2        14,400
O5spiote                                      l,40:                 3        14 400                          i o4,4oo                 3       14,400o                                                  3        14,400
Mechasius                                     4,800                 2         9,6o3                  P        9,602                  2         9,600                   2        9,6oo                  2         9,600
Radio Ooprator                                4,800                 1         4,i)o                  1        4,8Oo)                  1        4,eOo                   1        4,8o0                  1         4,880
Drivoro                                       2,400                 30                               3        7,200                   3        7,200                   3        7,200                  3         7,200
I:uards sad Messengers                          720                 3        22160                            0,160                  3        2,160                   3        2   0                   3        2,160
COosncr5                                       540                           122 0,620                                               3        1 b                     3          ' -                   3        1,620
Telephone OPerator                            2,400                            02                              2,100                  1        2,400                            2,400                  1           40
Project Doe. Ceter OM-floor                    0,400                5        120000                  8       09,200                  8        19,200)                 H        19,200                  8        19,200
0,A)utsl                                                     132,780                          i&4,8o0                         142,980                          i42,98o                          142,980                     707,700
Poe Dies                                      3,46o                           8,46D                           3,46o                            8,46o                            8,460o                           8,46o
Lasg-gse Ailonoce-                             3,600 3,200                                                    3,600                            3,6oo                            3,6oo                            3,600
loosios PFsd & Pose All w50-e5                                                d,L46                           i,>{8                            8,s7B                            8,578                            8,570
Camel All-.a..e                                 tO'5                5         3,003                  8        4,8oo                  8         4,800                  8         L,800                  8         4,800
Sobtotal                                                      23,200 5,436                                                     oL,4o6                           25,438                           o5,430                     024,958
Vehitle Hoooig Coot
Station Wagons                                8,64o       6,48o     2        17,280      12,960      2       17,280       12,960     2        17,280       12,960     2        17,280       12,960     2        17,280       12,460
Break-doyn Lorry                              6,ooo       4,000     1         6,3o0       4,5oo      1        6,o0o        4,500      1        6,ooo        4,500      1        6,000        4,500     1         6,ooo        4,500
00btotsb                                                      23,280      17,460              23,280       17,46c              23,28R       17,oi6              23,280       17,460              23,280       17,460        116,400      87,300
Other Roo_iag Coot
Office Fpepses                               12,000 o                         2,00                            12,000                          12,000                           12,000                           12,000
Bask Chsgoeo                                  1,200                           1,203                           1,200                            1,200                            1,200                            1,200
Tosurasce                                    48,ooo                          48,oo0                          48,ooo                           48,0oo                           48,ooo                           48,ooo
Unifor-s                                      1,200                           1,200                           1,203,                           1,2'0)                           1,200                            1,200
Ter1el                                          I00                48         8,64o)                48        it640                 48         8,64o                 48         8,64o                 48         8,64o
Audito-s foes                                18,000                          10,001                         1i3,ooo                           oi,oo 118,000                                                     i,ooo
Hsseollsneooo                                 2,400                           2,4o)                           ?,,o2,404 2 hi400                                                                                  2.4oo
Soubotal                                                      01.440                          31,440                           31,440                           31,440                           91,440                     457,200
Rousing oaf Bildings                                                                                         17,375       4,343              17,600        ',,411             17,r60        4,415              17,66o        4,L15
0qpipe-lt -s,I FP nittre                                                                                      4,137        1,03L               4,137        1,o04               4,03'        1,034
,lubtotl                                                                                      21,532       5,377              11,737        s,44q              20,797        5,449              21,797        5,L49         86,903       21,724
Orooad Total                                                               17.460o            30,60o       22,837             304,93L5      12,909             304,935      20,973c             304,935       22,909                     100 oFo
1/ A som of 05 of total sali-s, sad  asgos was  otaest no corer future pess-on -cosit-ets sod lordship post sllswansos foe  -ertain  at-egories of seaff.
2/ H.osing sod buildings 2.50  of o-igi-sl i-nestment starting yeoo  2. Furnitore cod eqoipooe- 5% of origialO i-ve.stmnt -ost starting year 2.
July 2, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
LMB Headquarters Staff - Capital Costs
(Eth$)
Unit Cost                     Year 1                             Year 2                     Year 1_5
Investment Category             Unit       Total        FE            No.      Total        FE            No.      Total        FE      Total        FE
Vehicles
4 x 4 LWB Station Wagon            No,        28,000       21,000       2         56,ooo       42,000
4 x 4 Lorry 5 Ton                 No.         52,000       42,000       1         52,000       42,ooo
Runabout                          No.          9,500        5,500       1          9,500        5,500
Subtotal                                                                117,500       89,500                                     117,500       8g.500
Equipment apiO Fxriiture
Furniture Class I                  Set         1,000          200      10         10,000        7,000
Furniture Class II                 Set           350          250       7          2,45o        1,750
Camp Equipment Class I             Set         1,350        1,010       6          8,100        6,o60
Camp Equipment Class TI            Set           700          500       4          2,800        2,000
Office Equipment                   Set        10,000        7,000       1         10,000        7,000
Radio Transceiver!/   2/           Set        12,000        9,000       1         12,000        9,000
Audio-visual Equipment-'           Set        10,000        7,000       1         10,000        7,000
Subtotal                                                                  55,350       39,810                                      55,350       39,810
Diagnostic Laboratory
at Debre Zeit                            700,000      210,000                700,000      210,000                                     700,000      210,000
Livestock Project Preparation                100,000       30,000                100,000       30,000                                     100,000       30,000
Total                                                                972,850       369,310                                     972,850      369,310
Costs Attributable to the     3/                                                                               321,040       121,872
Northeast Rangelands Project-                                                    321,040      121,872                                     321,040      121,872
l/ Central Station for Project network.
2/ Film equipment was provided by the IBRD 4th Education Project. Funds included in the Project would cover
supply of film and production costs as well as other audio visual material.
3/ One-third of the capital costs are being charged to each of the three sub-projects.
July 10, 1975
(D I-
uo H



ANbIEX 15
Table 60
4,1                             -4
j
FI
0000000000000   OH 0'K   C I    000 01                00   OI    1'-
0000000000000   0' 00-  0-I    000 Cl                 00   OH    'K  CCI"'
0000000 OO-40-Oo  'K -4'K  Oj            CICCOIj     00   01      t'K.K
4] J    i''   f"%1        0001         K
41     K '-CKKO'-,00 '-00K-C'  4                 K
00                       0                0000        00   0       0  0    04>
0000000000000   CI 04   0'                0000'       00   Ol      0        0
0000000000000   0' 00   01                0000 I    0001           'C       -
000000 OOOO'K'K4'K0   04CC 04  0004
-Of      Ci                                  04
00 LO COO' C) 4)0-4 'K 0 a) 'K  04 'K 'K  'K  o 4'K CC  0 0  0     CC       2
0-0             K           KK
CCI    0,-,oKOKKK'--, KK K-C
00                       0                0000        00   0       0  0
4                  00                        0                            00   0       -      '8-
K                   00                                                    00   0       C  0    0
04     C                  O'4                      'K               00040)       0'K            'K    0
CC                       -4'K                      'K                     0                      'K

0000000000000   K  0'K                  00001        00   0,      0        0      a
0000000000000   0  00-  0-               0000         0                'KI
1                              '8
00000 OOOK'KO   'K            -4  0      C,CCC'C
,0'KI                                                 I
I    gg4$-'K'K0)4>0'K 4'K'K       OoO          0-K)C'K      COd]
4
0 OK
CC  0  a  A
a I
Co                                                    00   0       '-  0    '8'
Co                       o               &K'K'K       00          c
04 A      :z;1   JIJ   
I    '-,----- -00000 ,KCC                     04K                                        '4
00                       0                0000        00   K       0  C'-  '8    C-,'-,
CC-C '-C
0000000000000   01 0-4                   0000         00   Oj              'K       C C
KI      OOOOOOOOKOOOO   01 00   0                 0000        00   K       >4       4      K a    C
000000000000   'KI KC  0                 KO"K0                       )Cj           0-C    a
'1       1                  71                        -      a
ml                                        I    4A'Kj                              2      A
0        K00u>0)'K'KOKCK)0 'K'KCO'-4CC                                                      C'   a
CI
0)0)                                     'KC'0        CCKC                         4>
4    C'
4
C,                                                                                   a  Ca
KI      CC'         C  C          C       K       C
CI  0-            0)0  4)        44       -C  K         0
100  0,  COO  CC  Ca  0)          C        C  a  o    v  a I
4,1      041'-  C'"-
CI   C  CC  4,  --,-CC'C'       4-'       C'  C        C  -C                   C  CC        0)
CC)  - I         OC-OC           .4      'C  0   CC'  C  a                    C-C  -Ca      C
C'4'K4,        C         C      CC   0  4)1                     CO
t<tt6                             - auo                                        4,
CCOCO'00010  aCa-'                C                   -    IC    4, -4        a       aC   Ca,
C' Ca a 1060041 a C'          4                    0                      06
CC 'CO   CKC'C'CaCCCCC'         C            '-4-C    0  0)1       a  C       a'a      C
a  CC4C'0C CC'a,)CCa            4C41      C  4-1  C    CC                    0)4)      CO    C  0
adaa0CC4C-'-CC'C'C           00       K      C                                     '8
CC  C'OCCC'CCC.C-OCCC4C0        00       C  0-04-C   C'
0) .C.4a0)0C'6CCCOCC-CC'                 4       a    C  1,0       0  0'
4,0     'C  CCC    'C  00         a'  0
4) OC,OC,OKKOO'KOC)0             Ca)     a       C   4-C
OK       0  -C-CO    0                                  I  CCICCI



ETHYOPIL
RAN6ELAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelsods
Total Invs-tnent Costs
(tth$ '099)
Year 1                                   tear 2                                  Year 3                                    Year 4                                   Yosr 5                                   Yrot 1-5
Investgent Categort            Local         FE          Total          ttl            FE          Total         total          FE          Total          Lotal         FE          Total          Lotal          FE          Total          Lotal          FE          Total -
Capital Coats
Rangs Managesent                         83           112          195              7            3            10            26            3            29             2             1            3                                                      118          119           237
Veterinary Servicsa                     154           236          390            109          136          245              2            4             6                                                                                               265          376           641
Irrigation/water Sproading              140          319           459           443           701        1,144         1,G42           825        1.868            923          241         1,164            925          270        1,195          3,475         2,357        5,932
Marketiag sod Grari-t Sthen-             77            64          141             27           12           39                                                                                                                                         104           76           180
Roads                                    59          156           215             19           31           50             20           35           55                                                                                                96           223           319
Tratinig                                 59          107           166              6           51           57              6           51           57              2            26           30                                                       73          237           310
Trials aod Stadiso                       17           29            46                                                                                                                                                     137           137             18          165           183
Servctrs sod Supplits                   140          137           277             10            7           17                                                                                                                                        150           144           294
Projeot Adsioiatratiso                  636          383         1,019              9            4           13                                                                                                                                        64S            g;        i,3
LiM  Livestock Dtn. Dept.               199          122           321                                                                                                                                                                                 199           122           321
Subtota1                         1,564         1,665        3.229            630          945        1,5/5          1,096          919        2,015            927           270        1,197            925          407         1.332         5,143         4,205        9346
Invest=ent Op-rating Costs
Range M.a.agrsent                       167           77           244            153           60          233            190           90          270            190           80           270           181            31           212           882           348        1,229
Veterin-ry  ert-cos                     109           75           184            218          109          327            255          120          375            256          121           377            246           72           318         1,084           497        1,501
Irrigation/Water Spreading               41           49            90            57            50          107             65           50          115             74           50           124            73             1            74           310           200          510
Marketing and Grasi-r Sthens             39            13           51            44            14           58             46           14           60             46            14           60             46           14            60           221            69           289
Roads                                   202            37          239            285           35          320            316           36           352                                                                                              806           108           911
Tr-ainig                                 38            13           51            42            13           55             42           13           55             44           13            57            44            13            57           209            65          275
Trials sod Studies                       24            6            30            23             7           30             23            7           30             23            7            30            Z3             7            30           117            34          150
Servles and Suppli-s                     45           16            61            58            17           75             5R           17           75             58           12            75             58           17            75           278            84          362
Projeot Adsiiont-atioo                  257           17           274           282            23          305            282           23          305            282           23           305           282            23          305          1,384           109        1,493
LIL8 Live-toock De. DOpartsent           77           46           118            72            46          118             72           46          119             72           46           118            72            46          116            360           230          590
Sbtotal                           993           349        1,342         1,234           394        1,628          1,349          406         1,755         1,045          371         1,416         1,025           224         1,249         5,651         1,744        7.389
Workias Capital
Gra-ier Schosa and Grain
P-rrh.se                              159                        159                                                    294                        294                                                                                               453         -              453
Ir-igation  s.he=                                                                 12                         12             36                        36             36                         36            36                         36            120                        120
Subtotal                           159                        159             12                         12           330                        330            36                         36             36                         36           573                         573
Total (Bass Cont)                2,716        2,014         4,730         1,876         1,339        3,215          2,775        1.325        4.100          2,008          641         2 649          1,986          631        2617          11,367         5.949       17 -.J
Phynioal Cootignotgeni  (lI0/)          272          201           473           187           134          321            277          132          410            200           64           265           199            63          262          1,137          .594        1,731
Subtotal                         2,988        2,215         5,203         2,063         1,473        3,536          3,052        1,457        4,510          2,208          705         2,914         2,185           694        2,879         12,504        6,543        19,041
Ptite Contingenles (10/.)               299          221           520           433           309          742         1 010           407        1,492         1,025           327        1,352          1,333           423        1,756          4,100        1,762         5,862
Grand Total                      3,287        2,436         5.723         2,496         1.782        4 278         4.062         1,939        6,002          3 233        1,032         4.266         3,518         1,117        4.635         166094         8.305       24.903
FE 33F.
I/  Totals dot't add  op because 0f tounding.
Jose 19, 1979



XiA11ELANIDS 723VEtOP2NET PRLL3KiT
NorthaeaLs RLIgWelLaIda2
___.yeI-~- ~~-- Yeart                oca-2 --              __-                                --=    --- Y-e 4                                                -- ------       Y    L-5 
Inveetlbeal Categeey                                   Local        FE        Total       Local       7B01                 7^pco1      tB Total LocaFEl  00  Total  L-a   FE            t          cal        FE        rotal       L            1         Total
Carital 0Cost
kLOa.e lldanLgeroant                                            41          56         97          49         58         127         i'6          4         30           2                      3           -           -           -        118         119         237
Oetnrtiand   Soaviaca                                           77         119        195         131        186        317          57          72        129           -           -          -           _           _          -         265         376        641
Ir.igatto-/Watar Spreadtag                                      7d         160        230        292         510         8D2        744         762      1,506         983         533      1,906       1,3dS       3'9        1,777       i,473      2,357       5.832
M-rketIng and 6s.aier Seb=.                                    39          32          71         6L         43         1D9                                                         - -  -                                                  105          75         180
Reada                                                           29          78        107          44        109         157         20          35          55           -          -           -          -           -           -         97         222         319
r-L.a$ig                                                        29          54         93          35         L05        140           6         51          57          3          27          30           -          -           -         73         237         31D
TiLal  And Stdiaa                                                9          15         23           0          15         2-                      -                       -          -            .          -        137         L17          1I        167    I     83
Saro- en  and LaPpAlaa                                          70          68        13d          80         76         156           -          -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -        150         144        294
Pnajelt Adfaidatnntito.                                        318         191        509         327         LqS        522           -          -           -           -          -           -          -                                645         386      1,031
1B21 lnadqunart-a Staff                                        100          61        161    _Y     9      __  -L _0-                                                                                                                        199         122         321
Svb-total                                                 781        832      1,614       1,L35      1,339       2,493         953        9241      1,777        988         561      1,549       1,385         529       1,914      5,143       4,205       9,348
Iaveat,ae,ot tanratino L'oata
Rcnga llacagmag nt                                             102          49        156         153         90         233        190          ao        270         190          80        270         181          31        212         821         320      1,141
Veterinary 6erviLe:                                             70          48        lid         218        109         J27        255         120        375         256         121        377         246          72        318       1,q4S         470      1,515
Irligntia/W.atna 8preadtng                                      26          31         57          '7         5D         107         65          S0        118          74          SO        124          73           1         74         295         182        477
Marketing and GC..i-e  Su1nta                                  24           8         32          44          14         58         46          14          60         46          in         no         4q           t4          nu        486          44        270
Manda                                                          129          24        153         265         35         320        316          36        352           -           -           -          -           -           -        730          95        825
T-iaing                                                         24           9         32          42         13          55         42          13         55          44          13         37          44          13          57        196          60        256
dtSal        tdLndS tsdie                                       15           4         19          23          7          30         23           7         30          23           7         30          23           7         30         107          32         139
Seryiren aDd 8rppliea                                           29          10         39          59         17          75         58          17         73          Su          17         73          58          17          73        261          78        339
Projeat adauinfItratioa                                        164          11        175         282         23         303        282          23        305         282          23        305         292          23        30s       1,292         103      1,395
LZdS lleadqtxanler  StaEf                                       49          28         75       , 72          46         119la       72          46        119          72          46        L3           72.z        46        118         3374        2136       547
Sub-InCaS                                                634         222        856       17234        394       1,628      1,349         406      1,755       1.045         371      1,416       1,025         224      1,249       5,287       1,617      6,904
LJoerking LaPital
Oracles schemeg end Grain Prnhn.e                                 -          -                    159           -        159           -           -          -        Zy4           - -                     -5-                    -        453            -        4S3
Irrigation Set3mte 12                                                                                       _             12          36          6                      3I_                    3                                   6         1           36 120
Iamigatienbuhttte                      -          -           -                     ~~~~~~- _L2 __                   _         _j_         _-6_                   __2_                      _         -    ____              __ _0
Sub-tal                                                                                     171           -         172         36          _          36         350           -        33926 -3                            36         373           -        573
Ttal (Bane CLat)                                        14'5      1_235        _47 72.1540          1_752       4,292       2 236      1430        3.568      2 Jm 9         32       3 295      2.         4 4b1153                       3,299  _5, L    32 16.d25
Phyninal CqatingenLtqa (l0%)                                   142         16          2472       254         175        429         224        833         357        236          93        330         245          72         320      jQ            280      1.693
Sub-total                                               i_s5       1.161       2,I   <2.794           0,927      4.721                  1.463       3.92       2_f99       j_.45      3_625       26_9           828    3_529    12.103    6_404    19.57
Caine Oontinaoenlee (lOh)                                       156        117         074    _507            41         _902        912        403      1_295       1,22          12        173        1,641          05       2 146       4 418     1_992       6_409
G0R2ND ToTAL                                      1,713        .278    , 991        3.381       2 3I          1,93                    46       .20        3,821      1.507    5332b           .332       1.333     5_1         16.521        1.396    24917
1/   tt the  -enoaptio.  that it  nould cat be pa-aihle  ot-    eL not eoagnanflt to tarry uut tie .oonstntmt praer  nohedolad tor yan12 I an                e    rth  Toal   nv--t                Tuble, a modifoed .npdotatLoe
nobedalo haa been                I'eparot   and Total Canta re-lee   a-ondio6Oy   23 effart, o.n  halO of the       .npeedttt,n ,  rhduIlnd to he made ia year I ha.r bean movad to       .ean 0  .nd nOad en ad anecer. node foe
yeLa 0  3 and 6   11 is cooaed clst any deleyn in Loplenmet atian cid ha mantI  0  in year S end that In Project coal4 h; romplL ted on ,cndtlo .                                                                                                                                t - t
No-eebe- 12, 1975



ANNEX 16
ETHIOPIA
RANMELANIlS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suggested List of Items Eligible for
Retroactivre Financing
(Eth$)
Total        Total
Unit       Cost         F.E.
Salaries                                 Cost  No. 1 Year        Cost
Head Livestock Development Department        70,000   1      52,500     37,000
Financial Controller                         70,000   1      52,500     37,000
Project Managers                             70,000   2    105,000      74,000
Head of Range Department(exp)                70,000   1      52,500     37,000
Range Management Specialist                  15,000   1      11,250
Senior Veterinary Officer(exp)               70,000   2    105,000      74,000
Heads of Training Department                 10,800   3      24,300
Design Engineer                              15,000          11,250
Vetwrinary Scouts 2/                                         27,000
Sub-Total                                              1441,300    259,000
Vehicles & Equipment
4 x 4 LWB Pick-Ups 3/                        23,500 .10   235,ooo    175,000
4 X 4 Lorry 5-ton                            52,000   1      52,000     42,000
Camping Equipment Class I                      1,350   5      6,750      5,050
F       "     Class II                       700   6      4,200      3,000
Veterinary Equipment 4/                       9,400   6     56,400
Sub-Total                                              354,350    225,050
Other Expenditures
Rented Accomodation                                         10,000
Training Material                                           20,000
Overseas Training                                           32,000
Sub-Total                                              62,000
Constructions                                              150,000      45,000
GRAND TOTAL                                         1,007,650      530,000
US,$ Equivalent                                   us$ 489,150      256,000
1/  Staff is only costed for 9 months which is assumed to be an average of staff- time
needed is 12 months prior to project implementation.
2/ 60 scouts (20 for each Project) 3 months subsistence = 5.400
Total 39,000              3 months salary plus allowance 120$/week = 21.600
3/ Including 6 Pick-Ups for Animal Health Assistance
4/ For 6 Field Stations



ANNEX 17
Table I
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$'000)
Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter End                   Quarterly         Cumulative
Year 1976
September
December
March 2/
June
Year 1977
September                                           250               250
December                                            500               750
March June                                          800             1,550
1,000             2,550
Year 1978
September                                         1,300             3,850
December                                          1,800             5,650
March                                             1,800             7,450
June                                              1,800             9,250
Year 1979
September                                         1,800            11,050
December                                          1,500            12,550
March                                             1,500            14,050
June                                              1,500            15,550
Year 1980
September                                         1,500            17,050
December                                          1,300            18,550
March                                             1,300            19,650
June                                              1,300            20,950
Year 1981
September                                         1,300            22,250
December                                          1,200            23,450
March                                             1,200            24,650
June                                              1,200            25,050
Year 1982
September                                         1,150            27,000
1/Expected date of signing January 1976.
2/Expected date of effectiveness
October 30, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ALTERNATIVE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
RESPONSIBLE                                                                 CALENDAR YEAR
AUTHORITY                          0               1               2               3               4               5              6-20
REORGANIZATION OF LIVESTOCK AND                     MIN OF AGRICULTURE/MBI
MEAT BOARD ILME)
RECRUITMENT OF KEY STAFF                                      LMB
PROCUREMENT INITIAt EQUIPMENT                                 LMB
CONSTRUCTION OF HOUSES & ADMINISTRATION                       LMB
FACILITIES
RECRUITMENT OF PROJECT STAFF                                  LMB
PROCUREMENT OF TRANSPORT                                      LMS
& EQUIPMENT
ESTABLISHING PROJECT HEADQUARTERS &                           LMR
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
GOVERNMENT BUDGET AND PROJECT ACCOUNTS              LM8/MIN. OF AGRICUtTURE
FIRST PROVISION OF WORKING CAPITAL
ESTABLISH REPORTING PROCEDURES                                LMB
NEGOTIATIONS WITH LIVESTOCK OWNERS              LMS LATER WITH SORPUIHIRDU/NERDU
SOUTHERN RANGELANDS                          SOUTHERN RANGELANOR DEVELOPMENT UNIT
CONSTRUCTION
HOUSING. PROJECT HEADOUARTERS
VETERINARY FACILITIES
RANCHES(HOUSING, FENCING, WATERI                                                                                   i    _          
WATER DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                   __      a__  _
FEED LOT & SMALEHOLDER FATTENING
ROADS
PROCUREMENT EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES                                                                              _            -             - _-_
TRAINING, TRIALS AND STUDIES                                                                                         .......... ........ I.........i .* ......     7135 *tu F  w ".I....
EXTENSION SERVICES (RANGE & VETERINARY)                                                                              ......  ...*5555... *460.I- ----fiSS. E .*.............. ... I  .......*..
FEEDLOT OPERATION                                                          _                                         I              _        I     *               * - _ _ . _ - . _ . _ . _    
SMALLHOLDER FATTENING                                                                                                ..  . ._ *. . . . .. .                -        .. -. . . . . .
JIJIGGA RANGELANDS                             JIJIGGA RANGELANOS DEVELOPMENT UNIT
CONSTRUCTION
HOUSING, PROJECT HEADQUARTERS
VETERINARY FACILITIES S__                                                                                              f    f__
WATER DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                          __u
ROADS                                                                                                         _                                      - -_  
PROCUREMENT EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES                                                                              - - _  _  _
TRAINING & INFORMATION. TRIALS & STUDIES                                                                             .....I...III ........i.56..5...... 6I...*  ............... go..
EXEENSION SERVICES (RANGE S & VETERINARY)                                                                             .0 ... I.....55   i55....5"5*l*. ..... .........a... .......a.... ..
SMALLHOLDER FATTENING                                                                                        I                      N      I. ..... ._In                      M. _
NORTHEAST RANGELANDS                         NORTHEAST RANGELANOS DEVELOPMENT UNIT
(NER DVI
CONSTRUCTION:
HOUSINGA PRONECT HEADQUAINTERS                                                                             L__                      a
MARKEESSSERVICES & SUPPLY UNIT                                                                              _                  al          '
IR R IGATlIONIWATER SPR EADI NG                                                                             _ w_ _ _ oi _ _ sb                            _       __      _    _
ROADS                                                                                                                               -- ______    - - - --
PROCUREMENT EOUIPMENT & SUPPLIES                                                                              -    --     - m
TRAINING TRIALS & STUDIES                                                                                            ...a... I ..1 ............. ..s....S.Si.ES.. A.............-..
EXTENSION SERVICES (RANGE & VETERINARYI                                                                               ............ I.....i........   ....   ss - ...a...s.. ..-................
CRAZCER SCHEME                                                                                                                                           . ..    . .. a I           I
- U,nde,eoaCtieL--im,, (A-.e 161       LEGEND         _      d-n                            F                                               -i,roc,ew,n  , _ acEsroT,GVgan aPDeng
.fl. Coessalelue               *55.- -  Servc..s                                                                                   Word Bank-15118(RI



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Requirements
Senior Staff          Interna-                               Low Level
(University &        tionally          Middle Level          Skilled Labor          Unskilled                 Temporary                 Total
Diploma Graduates)  Recruited                                Semi-skilled              Labor                     Labor
Southern Rangelands
Project Manager                                 1                   (1)                                                                                                            1
Range Management                                4                   (1)              4                       6                   34                                               48
Veterinary Services                             2                   (1)               9                     25                  155                                              191
Ranches                                         4                                    8                     20                   96                                              128
Feedlot                                         2                                     5                     11                    7                                               25
Smallholder Fattening                           1                   (1)               2                      2                                                                     5
Roads                                           1                                     5                     43                                            1,520                1,569
Training and InTormation                        1                                    4                       3                    5                                               13
Trials and Studies                              2                                    6                       3                    3                         120                  134
Project Administration                          2                                    4                      17                    3                         _                     26
Total                20                                   47                    130                  303                        1640                2.140
Jijiiga
Project Manager                                 1                   (1)                                                                                                            1
Range Management                                3                   (1)              4                       5                  115                           10                 137
Veterinary Services                             2                   (1)               5                     17                  114                                              136
Water Development                                                                                            5                                                                     5
Stocker Feeder Program                          2                                    4                       3                                                                     9
Roads                                           1                                     2                     11                                            1,315               1,329
Training and Information                        1                                     2                      5                    7                                               15
Trials and Studies                              2                                    6                       3                    3                          120                 134
Project Administration                          2                                    5                     15                     7                                               29
Total                14                                   28                     64                  244                        1,445               1,795
Northeast Rangelands
Project Manager                                 1                   (1)                                                                                                            1
Range Management                                1                   (1)               2                      4                   90                                               97
Veterinary Services                             2                   (1)              4                      14                   60                                               80
Irrigation Program                              5                                    8                     34                1,320                                            1,367
Marketing Program                               1                                     1                     4                     8                                               14
Roads                                           1                                     1                      7                                               775                 784
Training and Information                        1                                                            7                    4                                               12
Trials and Studies                              1                                                            1                    3                                                5
Services and Supplies                           1                                    1                     12                     8                                              22
Project Admini.strat. on                        2                                    4                     19                     6                         _                    31
Total                16                                   21                    102                1,499                          775               2,413
LMB Headquarters                                7                   (2)              8                      4
Total                 7                                    8                      4
19
Grand Total          57                                  104                    300                2.046                        3 960               6,367
m1
8m



ANNEX 19
Page 1
ETHIOP:IA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Beniefits
1.        Benefits from the Project would be derived from:
(a)  increased value of meat from range cattle due to increased
offtake together with an increase in weight for all animals
marketed;
(b)  increased production of milk from range cattle;
(c)  increased value of meat production attributable to cattle
marketed from the ranches, the smallholder fattening pro-
grams and the feedlot;
(d)  increased numbers (Northeast Rangelands only) and value
of meat production from sheep and goats and increased value
of meat from camels;
(e)  incremental value of crops grown as part of the water
spreading program.
These increases are demonstrated in the table below, and detailed supporting
data are available in Tables 11-29.
Value of Incremental Production
At Full Development (Year 7)
Eth$ Million
(a)  Range Cattle                                          13.6
(b)  Sheep and Goats                                        1.9
(c)  Camels                                                 1.2
(d)  Milk Production                                        1.2
(e)  Backgrounding and Fattening Ranches                    1.6
(f)  Smallholder Fattening Program                          1.8
(g)  Feedlot                                                1.3
(h)  Crop Production                                        0.9
23.6



ANNEX 19
Page 2
Range Cattle, Shoats -  and Camels
2.        The value of increased meat production from range cattle has been
assumed to be derived from increased offtake and an increase in weight for
each animal in the existing herd. In addition, however, as a result of
improved water, range management and veterinary services, etc., the Project
would also allow an increased carrying capacity on the ranges, and hence
increased total stock numbers. There are, however, no reliable data which
would allow this increase to be measured. Therefore, in the calculation of
Project benefits only the increased meat production attributable to increased
offtake and liveweight gains has been allowed for.
3.        The value of increased offtake and weight of cattle from the
ranges in the three sub-project areas (see Tables 11, 18 and 24) was derived
using available data as to:
(a) existing herd sizes and composition (Tables 1-9); and
(b)  marketed offtake (Table 10).
There are no reliable statistics on which detailed projections of herd
numbers, stocking rates, etc., can be accurately measured, but during
Project preparation various surveys were carried out to try and obtain
some indications of the appropriate parameters. The most accurate figures
available are derived from surveys using small airplanes doing visual counts
and photographing random samples (Tables 1-4). These figures were fairly
accurate for the day the survey was carried out, but consecutive surveys at
different times of the year made it clear that due to migration, great
variations would be noted in the livestock numbers in any particular area
depending on the time of year, rainfall and the condition of the pasture.
However, within the boundaries of a given zone which has little or no move-
ment of stock into neighboring areas, it is evident that although livestock
numbers fluctuate, they do so around a static norm. Thus, for purposes of
Project calculations static herd numbers have been assumed for both "With"
and "Without" Project situations. These estimates are given below:
Estimated Normal Traditional Herd Numbers (in '000)
----------N.E.R.----------    Project
S.R.    Jijigga            (After drought)  Full Herd       Totals
Cattle   1,000        500                  (134)           500         2,000
Shoats     300        970                  (750)           800         2,070
Camels      90        160                  (130)           200           450
1/   This term has been used to indicate sheep and goats.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
4.        The Northeast Rangelands estimate presented a special problem,
for as a result of the recent drought the existing herd sizes are at present
substantially below normal levels. In general, it can be estimated that
prior to Project implementation herd numbers would be roughly at 50% of the
static herd size prior to the drought (see Table 4). However, Tables 5 and
6 demonstrate that in either a "With" or "Without" Project situation, these
herds are expected to regenerate themselves and to reach the static norm over
a period of between 7-10 years. 1/ Some of the factors which make such a
drastic recovery possible are:
(a) After a bad drought the surviving cattle almost exclusively
consist of adult females, since calves and yearlings tend
to die first from exposure and mature males and unproductive
cows will have been consumed or sold;
(b) When the drought breaks and grasses recover, the stocking
rate will be very low and the surving cattle will reach a
very high nutritional level and a consequent high level of
fertility; calf mortality will be low and growth rates high;
(c) Herd increase will slow down when numbers again outstrip
the available grazing, at which point low nutrition, lower
fertility and high mortality rates will combine to bring
about the static herd of the standard model.
The benefits from the Northeast Rangelands sub-project have therefore
been expressed as in the other sub-projects, that is, using the normal
static herd as a baseline figure. It should be noted that an increase in
the Northeast Rangeland shoat flock of 25% has been credited to the Project,
as the water spreading program would, through the provision of additional
pasture, allow the flocks to increase beyond the static norm.
5.        The static herd estimates were used as the basis from which the
liveweight gains and the incremental offtake attributable to the Project
were computed. These are shown below:
1/   The assumptions underlying this model of the recovery of the herd after
a drought are confirmed by an example from Kenya, where the Masai cattle
herd suffered losses estimated at 50% in 1963 and again in 1972 and in
the interval still managed to recover to the limit of the capacity of
the ranges.



ANNEX 19
Page 4
Liveweight Gains
Incremental
Gain Attributable
Numbers             Average Weight              to Project
(million)               (kg/head)                (kg/head)
Cattle          2.0                      180                        15
Shoats          2.27                      18                        3
Camels          0.45                     300                       10
Offtake
Incremental
Without Project       With Project            Offtake
Cattle                6% /1              11%                    6%
Shoats               13%                 15%                    2%
Camels                5%                  6%                    1%
/1   The impact of the JP-15 Rinderpest Control Program has been allowed for
in Southern Rangelands and Jijigga by crediting an initial increase in
offtake of 3% for three years to JP-15 and thereafter any further
increase to the Project on the assumption that if the Project were not
implemented and the follow-up vaccinations not carried out, herds would
then revert to their pre-vaccination situations. For the Northeast
Rangelands it is assumed that the campaign would be carried out by the
Project veterinary service and consequently all increase in offtake
accrues to the Project.
The offtake rates depend on birth, death and calving rates together with
the owners' preference for sale. The composition of the traditional cattle
herd and sheep flock are shown in Tables 7 and 9 for both "With" and "Without"
the Project.
Milk Production
6.        It has also been assumed that from year three onward, the same
factors which contributed to liveweight gains for range cattle would also
result in an increased production of milk per lactation. Using the standard
model (Table 7), it has been assumed that 43% of the cattle population would
be cows, and that these would have a 60% calving rate; it was then assumed



ANNEX 19
Page 5
that each of these cows would show an incremental milk production of 15 kg
of milk annually (10% of the estimated body weight increase of 15 kg expressed
as milk). Although this milk would be consumed by calves or by the nomadic
livestock owners, it has been valued as if sold on the market. 1/
Fattening Schemes
7.        The incremental liveweight gains and the value of the incremental
meat production attributable to the ranches, the feedlot and the smallholder
fattening programs are easily quantifiable; these figures are found in Tables
13, 14, 15, 16, 21, 22 and 27.
Crop Production
8.        The main crops grown on land irrigated by water spreading would
be cotton, wheat and sorghum. The total value of this incremental crop
production attributable to the Project is shown in Table 28.
July 20, 1975
1/   The price used was that prevailing in similar rural areas in Ethiopia
and neighboring states (That is, Eth$ 0.15 per liter).



ANNEX 19
table 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Number and Classes of Livestock
Estimated
Normal Herd Numbers V
Cattle                        1,000,000
Shoats                          300,000
Camels                            90,000
1/ Herd numbers have been estimated from the AGROTEC survey for the
investment area carried out for the preparation report.
May 6, 1975



ANNEX 19
Table 2
ETIIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jijisga
Numbers and Classes of Livestock
1st Round  /       2nd Roung            3rd Rbund        Estimated
September 1972    February 1972         January 1973        Normal
(Kerenta Rains)  (Earky Gu Rains)   (Jilaa. Dry Season)   Number
Cattle                     450,000          670,000                395,000         500,000
Sheep                     785,000           880,000                500,000         750,000
Goats                     190,000           420,000                135,000         250,000
Camels                    220,000           190,000                 80,000         16C,OOO
Biomass total in kg
kg x 106                    166               204                    108
Biomass in kg per
km2 surveyed               8,091            6,12a                  3,257
Area surveyed (km2)         20,564            3,310                 33,310
1/ The difference in the total area surveyed between the first and other
rounds of the survey should be noted.
2/ Aerial surveys carried out in the Project area during 1972 and 1973
show the wide variations between numbers according to whether the area
was surveyed in the rainy or the dry season - up to 60% for cattle and
sheep and 100% for camels and goats.
Source: Project Application Report. - Watson Ltd. Animal Surveys
May 6, 1975



ANNEX 19
Table 3
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Surveyed Area:
Numbers and Classes of Livestock
September 1972 January 1973 May 1973
Cattle (head)                                   355,000       255,000       50,000
Sheep (head)                                    270,000       305,000       65,000
Goats (head)                                    315,000       350,000      175,000
Camels (head)                                   100,000        75,000       35,000
Humans (head)                                   113,000        70,000       47,000
Families 1/                                      22,600        14,000        9,4oo
Livestock units (l.u.) of 250 kg 2/and 3/       425,000        329,000     103,000
Implied actual stocking rate (ha/l.u.)            6.84          8.84        28.22
Implied holding in l.u.s. per family             18.81         23.50        10.96
1/ Suggested on the basis of house numbers.
2/ Assumed average weights for different types of livestock and hence l.u.s.
are:
Cattle:           180 kg - 0.72 l.u.
Sheep and Goats:   18 kg - 0.07 l.u.
Camels:           304 kg - 1.22 l.u.
3/ Exclusive of equines and wild herbivores in project area.
Source: Aerial surveys carried out for-LMB by Dr. Watson in 1972 and 1973
in a zone within a smaller than the Project area.  Toti area covered
was 29,100 ki2, which was identical to NERP-1, the Project Area of
the Northeast Rangeland Component of the Drought Rehab-litation Project.
May 6, 1975



ANNEX 19
Table e
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Total Project Area: Number and Caasses
of Livestock 1/
Estimates Extrapolated from                Mission
Aerial Survey Estimates 2/              Estimate
September 1972     January 1974     Estimate of Normal Herd
Cattle                 734,000            134,000             500,000
Sheep                  556,o00             279,000        )
)   800,000
Goats                  655,o0o            469,ooo         )
Camels                 206,000            132,000             200,000
Carrying Capacity
(ha/L.U.)              8.7                24.0                11.1
1/ Area = 44,200 km2.
2/ See Annex 19, Table 3.
May 6, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Hs. ' Projection Without Project Follorwt   Drught Conditions
Year O         Year I          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5          Year 6          Year 7          Year 8          Year 9          Year 10          Year 11
1973            1974           1975            1976            1977            1978            1979            1980            1981            1982            1983            1984             1985
(Last Drought Year)
(Good raina)
Co-s                                100,000         131,000         124,450         118,200         153,100         172,900        194,300         204,400          215,400        215,400          215,400         215,400         215,400
Calves                                           104 000          99,600          98, 700       107, 200        112, 400        116,600         102, 200        107, 700        107, 700         107, 700       107, 700         107, 700
Steers  1 - 2                         -                              46,800          44, 80          39, 900        47, 700         49, 500         50 700          43,400          45, 800          45,800          45, 800         45,800
2 -3                                                         -              45.000          43,000          35,500          44,800          46,000          46,600          34,700          42,100          42,100          42,100
3   4                                -                       -               -              43, 200         40, 800         34, 000         41, 700         42, 300         42, 900         31, 900         38, 700         38, 700
Heifers 1 - 2                                                        46,800          44,800          39,900          47,700         49,500           50,700         43,400          45,800           45,800          45,800          45,800
2 3 _                                                                       45,000          43,000          35,500          44,800          46,000          46,600          34,700          42t,100         42,100          42,100
3   4 b31,000                                -               -               -               -               -               -               -              10,004          av,7u.          2b,300          30,300          36,300
Bulls -                               3.000           3,000           3,000           3,000           3,300           3,400          4,000           4,100           4,300            6,500           6,500           6,500           6,500
TOTALS                              134,000         134,000         221,000         300,000         365,400         383,600        420,900         443,600         452,000         445,500         445,900         472,700          472,700
Sold Old Cows                      2,000           2,600           2,500           2,200           3,000
Sold (3-4 year-old rales)          -               -               -               -               -             40,400          38,300          31,600          38,400          24,400          24,400           24,400          24,400
Sold (3-4 year-old fe-aleo)        -               -               -               -               - -  -                         -                               -               -               -                2,400           2,400
No-al Year Parameters
Calving rtte                    - 50%                 80/.            80/.            75%             707,           65%             60%             501%            50%
Cow death or replarce=nt rote - 157.                   5%              5%              7%              9%             11%            12%             15%              15%
Calf death rote                - 15%                  10%             10%             10%             11%             12%            13%             157.             15%
Adult death rote               _  8%                   4%              4%              4%              5%              6%             7%              87.             8%
Heifers calve in 3-4 years
Offtake %                      27,                 2%              2%              2%              2%             11%              9%              7%             8.5%           5.5%            5.5%             6%              6%
1/ Heifers calve it year 3 to 4 it  good ..nditions after dro-ght until year 7:  then they begin to calve later ia year 4 to 5.
2/ Bulls at 2% of herd until year 8 then 3%'
April 10, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIA15DS DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Northeast Range3Mnds
Herd Projection With Project Folltfing Drought Conditions
-1                0                1                2                3                4                5               6                 7                8                9               10
1974             1975            1976              1977             1978            1979             1980              1981             1982             1983             1984
Com,                                                                                      18,200          053,100          185,600          206,300          220,000          220,000          220,000           220,000          220,000
Calves                                                                                 88,700          114,800          129,900          134,000          132,000          132,000          132,000          132,000          132.000
Steers  I - 2                                                                             44, 800          39, 900          51, 700          57, 800          59 onn           56, ,105          .c,lG            56,ioo           56,100
2 -3                                                                             4,% G0G          43, ouu          38, 300          49,100           54, 300          55, 500          52, 700           52, 700          52, 700
3   4 b-                                                                                          43,200           41,300           36,400           46,200           51,000           52,200           49,500           49,500
Hetfers I - 2                                                                             44,800           39,900           51,700           57,800           59,000           56,100           56,100            56,100           56,100
2 -3                                                                             45, 000          43, 000          38,300           49,100           54,300           55,500           52,700           52, 700          52,700
Bu11  2                                                                                    3,000            3,000            3,700            6,000            6,500            6,500            6,500             6,500            6,500
TOTALS                                                                                   300,000          365,100          410,600          462,600          499,300          500,700          496,300          493,600          493,600
Sold
Old Com.                                                                                2,200            3,000            -
3-4 year-old   sles                                                                     -                -               40,700           36,200           33,700          43,400            47,900           49,900           46,500
3-4 year-old fe-ales                                                                    -                -                -                -                8,200           19,500           20,700           18,000           18,000
Proiect Maturity Para.eter.
Calving rate                      -     80%              80%              80%7             757,             75%              707,             65%              60%              60%              607,
Com death or repla-esent rats -          5% 5                       7        % 57,7,        7%               7%              107              11%              I57,             157,             157%
Calf death rate                  -      10%              107%             1007             10%              10%              11%              12%              13%7             15%              137
Adult death rate                  -      4%               4%               4%               4%               4%               5%               67O              6%               6%                6%
Offtake %                                                                                2%               27%             107,             80/               9%              12%              13%              13%              13%
I/  Heifers salve in year 3 - 4.
2/  Bu11s at 3% from year 4.
April 10, 1975



ETHIuPIA                                 AMNEX 19
Table 7
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traditional Nomadic Cattle Herd Composition 1V(100 Head)
Withiout            Witn
Project             Project
Herd number                                     100 head             100 head
Cows                                              36                  43
Calves                                            ld                  26
Bulls                                              3                   1
Unproductive Cows                                  7                    -
Immatures:
Heifers 1-d years                            o                   1D
2-3 years                           7                    9
j-L years                           6                    7
4-5 years                            6                   6
Steers       1-2 years                            8                   10
2-3 years                           7                    9
3-4 years                           6                    5
4-5 years                            6                    -
Total Heifers/Steers                              54                  56
Total                             100                  100
Animals Available as Offtake for
Sale or consumption                      I unproductive cow        5 2-year steers
5 mature males            3 4-year males
4 cull cows/heifers
Cattle Herd Parameters
Calving rate                                     50%                  60%
Calf mortality                                   15%                  15%
Young stock./adult mortality                       8%                  7%
Offtake rate                                       6%                 11%
1/   This nmdee  is confirmed by an FAO survey on Herd Composition carried out in
the Democratic Republic of the Sudan as the FAC Perspective Study for Livestock
Production (FAO ESP/AGA/SUD/7h/9) which yielded the following parameters:
(a) 25% of the herd is composed of males of varying age;
(b) no female culling takes place except for very old cows;
(c) 20% of the cows in the herd are 9 years of age or above;
(d)  reproduction rate is 45-55% and the number of calves per cow
reproductive life is 3 or less;
(e)  average age at first calving is about 4 years of age;
(f) average mortality rates are:
calves       10-15%
young stock   7-8%
adults         5-7%
(g)  most male animals are sold at the age of 4 years or later
May 6, 1975



ANNEX 19
Table 
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Estimated Nomadic Herd Composition
Normal(100 head)                            After Drought-(64 head)
36 cows, 3 bulls                         30 cows + 1 bull + 4 early calving heifers
18 calves                                30 calves
7 unproductive cows
8 l-year-old steers, 8 heifers          Nil
7 2-year-old steers, 7 heifers          Nil
6 3-year-oid steers, 6 heifers          4
6 4-year-old steers, 6 heifers          Nil
Sold or eaten:  5 males, 1 cull cow    None sold
Total:          100 Head                 Total: 64 Head
1/ 1973.Tables 8 and 9 illustrate that either with or without the project,
it is expected that by years 7-10 the herds would have returned to approxi-
mately the normal estimated number. For the Project area as a whole, this number
is estimated at 500,000 (see Table 4)
Source:   Mission estimates and FAO report, "The Improvement of Nomadic
and Transhumantic Animal Production Systems" WS/F6652
May 6, 1975



ETHIOPIA                                 ANNEX 19
T STe 9T
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traditional Nomadic Sheep Flock Corporation (100 Head)
Without        With
Project        Project
Begin Year Flock          Mixed age breeding ewes                    62              62
lyear Replacement ewes                   16              16
1-year males                              14              14
2-year males                               7               7
Breeding rams                              1               1
100            100
Increase During Year      Ram lambs                                  24              27
75% Lambing            Ewe lambs                                  23     85%      26
Breeding ram transfer                      1               1
(148)          (154)
Less Sales                 Breeding ewes (broken mouth)               2               2
Male lambs                                 4               5
l-year males                               2               3
2-year males                               5               6
Breeding rams                              1               1
14             16
Less Death                Breeding ewes  20%                         12     16%      10
Ewe lambs(First year) 30%                 77    25%        6
1-2 year ewes 20%                          3     16%       3
Male lambs (First year) 30%                8     25%       7
1-2 year males  20%                        4     16%       1
End-Year Flock             Mixed age breeding ewes                   61              66
1-year replacement ewes                   13              20
l-year males                              16              15
2-year males                               9              -
Breeding rams                              1               2
TOTAL FLOCK                              100             103
Flock Parameters          Offtake as % Total Flock                   14%             16%
Death as % Total Flock                    34%             2%
Breeding Ewes as % Total Flock            61%             66%
May 6, 1975



ANNEX 19
Tatble 10
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOIPMNT PROJECT
Estimates of Marketed Offtake
---- Field Surveys -----    ---- Mission Estimates ----
Webi Shebelle 1/  Hollyer  Livestock Owner    Without                  With
Survey         Surve-       Survey          Project              Project
Cattle       7.6%            27%          5.9%             6%                  11%
Sheep       14.8%            93%         16.1%         )                    )
) 14%                ) 16%
Goats                                    14.5%         )                    )
Camels       6.3%           18%           5.0%             5%                   6%
jl The surveys were conducted in order to estimate of ftake rates. One was a
a census of trade routes, the second, an interview with traders and market
officials and the third, an incluiry among livestock owners to obtain
figures of livestock sold, bartered or slaughtered from their herds.
Hollyer's figures are much higher as they included animals which passed
through the markets but came from sources outside the Project area, such
as the continguous highlands around Harar. The Livestock Owner Survey is
probably the most accurate beirg based on actual life histories of some
2,500 head of livestock.
May 6, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANCEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Range Cattle - Value of Incremental Meat and Milk Production
Before      -----------------------------------------------------  Years  ---------------------------------------------------
Development          1               2               3               4               5               6              7             8-20
A. Meat Production
Eumber of Animals                         1,000,000       1,000,000       1,000,000       1,000,000       1,000,000       1,000,000        1,000,000      1,000,000      1,000,000
Marketable Offtake Rate -/                         9%4            9'               9b              9%              9.5%           107%            10.5%          11%             11%
Incremental Offtake Rate                                                                           3%              3.5%            4%              4.5%           5%             5%
Numbers Marketed                              90,000         90,000           90,000         90,000          95,000          100,000         105,000        110,000        110,000
Incremental Offtake Marketed                    -               -               -            30,000          35,000          40,000          45,000          50,000         50,000
(of which sold to Ranches) 1/                                                             (10,400)        (14,400)        (16,000)        (16,000)        (16,000)       (16,000)
Incremental Increase in weight kg/head                                                             5.0             7.5            10.0            12.5           15.0           15.0
Total Incremental Production 2
(kg lw)                                                                             7,054,000       8,120,500       9,480,000      11,052,500    12,650,000    12,650,000
Price/kg (Eth$)
Primary Markets                                                                                    0.45            0.45            0.50            U.5IU          0.50           0.50
Ranches                                                                                            0.48            0.48            0.53            0.53           0.53           0.53
Value of Incremental Production (Eth$)                                                      3,221,100       3,718,800       4,812,000        5,598,250      6,397,000      6,397.000
B.  Milk Production
Number of Cows                              258,000          258,000         258,000        258,000         258,000          258,000         258,000        258,000        258,000
Incremental Production (kg/head                                                                    5               5              10              10             15             15
Total Incremental Production (liter)              -               -               -         1,290,000       1,290,000       2,580,000        2,580,000      3,870,000      3,870,000
Price/liter (Eth$)                                                                                 0.15            0.15            0.15            0.15           0.15           0.15
Value of Incremental Milk Production                                                           193,500        193,500         387,000          387,000        580,500        580,500
Total Value of Incremental Meat and
Milk Production (Eth$)                                                                    3,414,600       3,912,300       5,199,000       5,985,250       6,977,500      6,977,500
1/  The original offtake rate was estimated at 6%.  As a result of the JP-15 campaign, the offtake rate increased to 9%.  From year 3 onwards the fn'1 ' f t^
will be financed by the Project, so that the incremental offtake will be fully credited to the Project.
2/ The average weight of animals-marketed is estimated at 260 kg lw.  The average weight of animals sold to ranches is estimated at 150 kg lw.                                          b >
June 25, 1975                                                                                                                                                                           m x
'0



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Shoats - Value of Incremental Meat Production
Before          ---------------------------- Years ----------------------------
Development        1           2           3           4           5          6-20
Number of Animals              300,000         300,000    300,000      300,000    300,000    300,000    300,000
Marketable Offtake Rate          12%             12%         12%        12.5         137/        14%         14%
Incremental Offtake Rate                                                 0.5          1%          2%          2%
Numbers Marketed                36,000          36,000     36,000       37,500      39,000      42,000      42,000
Incremental Offtake              -               -          -            1,500       3,000       6,000       6,000
Incremental Production/Head                                                  1           2           3           3
(kg Lw)
Total Incremental 1!
Production (kg)                                                   75 000    153,000    264,000    264,000
Price/kg (Eth$)                                                          0.90        0.90        0.96       0.96
Value of Total
Production (Eth$)                                                     67,500    137,700    253,440    253.440
1/ The average weight of an animal marketed is estimated at 25 kg lw.
May 7, 1975
M >X



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Cattle   Fattening and Backgrounding Ranches - Value of Incrementa) Meat Production
----- Years -------_-____________________------
1             2              3              4              5             6-20
Number of Animals Purchased           2,400         6,400         10,400         14,400         16,000         16,000
Average weight/head                     150            150           150            150            150            150
(kg Lw)
Price/kg (Eth$)                           0.48           0.48          0.48           0.48           0.53           0.53
Total Value of Animals         172,800        460,800        748,800      1,036,800      1,272,000      1,272,000
Purchased
Number of Animals Sold 1/                           2,300          6,140          9,980         13,820         15,360
Average weight/head (kg Lw)                            250           250            250            250            250
Price/kg (Eth$)                                          0.69           0.69          0.69            0.76           0.76
Total Value of Sales (Eth$)       -           396,750      1,059,150      1,721,550     2,625,800       2,918,400
Value of Incremental Meat
Production-(Eth~)                (172,800)      (645)          310,350        684,750      1,353,800      1,646,000
/  Mortality 4% annually.
ke 25, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Cattle - Smallholder Fattening Awassa - Value of Incremental Meat Production
- ------------------------------ Years -------------------------------
1              2           3           4            5          6-20
Number of Animals
Purchased                        400            800       1,200        1,600       2,000       2,000
Average weight/head              250            250          250         250         250          250
(kg Lw)
Price/kg (Eth$)                    0.66           0.69        0.69         0.69        0.76        0.76
Total Value of Animals
Purchased (Eth$)          66,000        138,000     207,000      276,000     380 000     380 000
Number of Animals Sold             384            768        1,152       1,536       1,920        1,920
Average weight/head kg Lw        350            350          350         350         350          350
Price/kg (Eth$)                    0.75           0.75        0.75         0.75        0.83         0.83
Total Value of Sales(Eth$) 100,800        201,600      302,400     403,200     557,760     557,760
Value of Incremental
Meat Production (Eth$)        34,800         63,600       95,400     127,200     177,760      177,760
April 25, 1975
r  x



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Cattle - Stover Grazing Program - Value of Incremental Meat Production
------------------------------  Years -----------------------------____
1            2             3             4             5            6-20
Number of Animals Purchased            1,000         1,000         1,000         1,000         1,000         1,000
Average weight/head  (kg lw)             250           250           250           250           250           250
Price/kg (Eth$)                            0.66          0.69          0.69          0.69          0.76         76
Total Value of Animals
Purchased (Eth$)                 165,000       172,500       172,500       172,500       190,000       190,000
Number of Animals Sold                   997           997           997           997           997           997
Average weight/head (kg Lw)              260           260           260           260           260            260
Price/kg (Eth$)                            0.66          0.69          0.69          0.69          0.76           0.76
Total Value of Animals Sold (Eth$)171,085        178,860       178,860       178,860       197,000       197,000
Value of Incremental
Meat Production (Eth$)               6,085         6,_360        6.360         6.360__7                    7,000
June 25, 1975
CDX



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Feedlot Cattle - Value of Incremental Meat Production
_____________Y____________----- years ---------------------------
1            2                3             4              5             6-20
Number of Animals Purchased                                        8,000          8,000          8,000          8,000
Average weight/head (kg Lw)                                           250           250            250            250
Price/kg (Eth$)                                                        0.69           0.69           0.76           0.76
Total Value of Animals
Purchased (Eth$)                                           1,380,000      1,380,000      1,520,000     1,520,000
Number of Animals Sold -                                            5,252         7,880          7,880          7,880
Average weight/head (kg Lw)                                           350           350            350            350
Price/kg (Eth$)                                                        0.95           0.95           1.04           1.04
Total Value of Sales                                         1,746,290      2,620,000      2,868,000      2,868,000
Value of Incremental Meat
Production (Eth$)                                              366,290      1,240,000      1,348,000      1,348,000
1/ Mortality 1.5% Annually.
June 25, 1975
m M4
I. ~-



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangelands
Summary Table -  - Value of Total Incremental Meat and Milk Production
(Eth$)
~---------------------------------------------- Years -------------------------------_------__________
3            4             5             6              7           8-20
Cattle
Cattle from Rangelands                                3,221,100    3,718,800    4,81?,000   5,59R,?50    6,397,000    6,397,000
Feedlot                                                 366,290    1,240,000    1,348,000    1,348,000    1,348,000    1,348,000
Ranches                                                 310,350       684,750    1,353,800    1,646,000    1,646,000    1,646,000
Stover Grazing                6,085         6,360         6,360         6,360         7,000         7,000         7,000         7,000
Smallholder Fattening         34,800       63,600        95,400       127,200       177,760       177,760       177,760       177,760
Shoats                                                     67,500       137,700       253,440       253,440       253,440        253,440
Milk Production                                            193,500      193,500       387,000       387,000       580,500        580,500
Grand Total                40.885        69,960    4,260.50    6.108.310    8.339.000    9.417.450   10.409.700   10.409,700
1/  Summary of Tables 11-16
June 25, 1975
I--.
-J O



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jijigga
Range Cattle - Value of Incremental Meat and Milk Production
Before          ---------    ---------------------------------- Years ---------------------------------------------
Development           1             2             3             4             5              6             7           8-20
A.  Meat Production
Number of Animals                           500,000         500,000       500,000       500,000       500,000       500,000       500,000       500,000        500,000
Marketable Offtake Rate(%)                        g                9n            9 %           9%            9.5%         10%           10.5%         11%           11%
Incremental Offtake Rate (%)                                                                  3%             3.5%          4%            4.5%          5%            5%
Numbers Marketed                             45,000          45,000        45,000        45,000        47,500         5,000        52,500        ,,O0           55,0uo
Incremental Offtake Marketed                                                             15,000        17,500        20,000        22,500        25,000         25,000
Iiicremental Increase in
weight(kg/head)                                                                             5.0            7.5          10.0          12.5          15.0          15.0
Incremental Production 2/ (kg lw)                                                     4,125,000    4,906,250    5,700,000    6,506,250    7,325,000    7,325,000
Price kg lw (Eth$)                                                                            0.45           0.45          0.50          0.50          0.50          0.50
Value of Incremental Meat Prod.(Eth$)                                                 1,856,250    2,207,812    2,850,000    3.253,125    3.662,500    3,662,500
B.  Milk Production
Number of Cows                              129,000         129,000       129,000       129,000       129,000       129,000       129,000       129,000        129,000
Incremental Production (kg/head)                                                              5             5            10            10            15             15
Price/kg (Eth$)                                                                                0.15          0.15          0.15          0.15          0.15          0.15
Total Incremental Production (liter)                                                    645,000       645,000    1,290,000    1,290,000    1,935,000    1,935,000
Value Incremental Milk Production _Eth$)                                                 96,750        96,750       193,500                     290,250        290,250
Total Incremental Milk and
Meat Production (Eth$)                                                              1,953,000    2,304,562    3,043,500    3,446,625    3,952,750    3,952,750
1/  The original offtake rate was estimated at 6%.  As a result of the JP-15 campaign, the offtake rate increased to 9%.  From year 3 onwards                           g Z
the follow-up of this campaign will be financed by the project, so that the incremental offtake will be fully credited to the project.
2/  Average weight of animals marketed is estimated at 260 kg lw.
June 25, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jijigga
Shoats - Value of Incremental Meat Production
Before     --------------------------- Years -----------------------------
Development      1           2           3          4            5        6-20
Number of Animals                   970,000    970,000    970,000    970,000    970,000    970,000    970,000
Marketable Offtake Rate (7%)             12%.       127%        127o        12.5%       13%         147%        14%
Incremental Offtake Rate (%)                                                  0.5%        1%          2%          2%
Numbers Marketed                    116,400    116,400    116,400    121,250    126,100    135,800    135,800
Incremental Offtake                                                       4,850       9,700      19,400      19,400
Incrementatl Production
Kg/head                          1/                                         1           2           3           3
Total Incremental Production (kg)-                                      242,500    494,700    892,400    892,400
Price/kg (Eth$)                                                               0.90        0.90        0.96        0.96
Value of Total
Incremental Production (Eth$)                                        218 s250    445 s230    8562704    856L 704
1/  Average weight of shoats marketed is estimated at 25 kg lw.
June 25, 1975
mI-



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ji iigga
Camels - Value of Incremental Meat Production
Before     -----------                  Years _--------_________________
Development     1           2           3          4           5        6-20
Number of Animals             160,000    160,000    160,000    160,000    160,000    160,000    160,000
Marketable Offtake (/)             5%          5%         5%          5%/.        5.5%       6%          6%
Incremental Offtake Rate (C)                                                      0.5%        1%          1%
Numbers Marketed                8,000       8,000      8,000       8,000      8,800       9,600       9,600
Incremental Offtake                                                             800       1,600      1,600
Incremental Production
(kg/head)                                                           5           7.5        10         10
Total Incremental
Production 1/ (kg lw)                                          40,000    306,000    576,000    576,000
Price/kg (Eth$)                                                        0.70       0.70        0.77        0.77
Value of Total Incremental
Production (Eth$)                                              28.000    214,200    443%520    443,520
1/ Average weight of camels marketed is estimated at 300 kg lw.
May 6, 1975                                                                                                g.
o >'



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jijigga
Smallholder Backgrounding Program - Value of Incremental Meat Production
______------------------- Years ------------------------- --
1          2           3           4           5         6-20
Number of Animals Purchased                      250       1,000      3,000       4,500       4,500       4 500
Average weight/head (kg lw)                      140         140         140         140        140         140
Price kg/lw (Eth$)                                 0.45        0.45        0.45        0.45       0.50        0.50
Total Value of Animals Purchased (Eth$)    15,750        63,000    189,000    283,500    315,000    315,000
Number of Animals Sold ./                        240         960      2,880       4,320       4,320       4,320
Average weight/head (kg lw)                      250         250         250         250         250        250
Price/kg (Eth$)                                    0.66        0.66        0.66        0.66        0.73        0.73
Total Value of Sales (Eth$)                   39,600    158,400    475.200    712,800    788,400    788,400
Value of Incremental Meat
Production (Eth$)                           23,850     95 400    285,200    429,300    473,400    473,400
1/ Mortality is estimated at 47% annually.
May 6, 1975                                                                                                       i3x
r' >
M--a



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jijigga
Smallholder Fattening Program - Value of Incremental Meat Production
----------------------- Years ------------------------
1         2          3          4          5        6-20
Number of Animals Purchased            250      1,000      3,000      4,500      4,500          4,500
Average weight/head (kg lw)            140        140        140        140        140             140
Price/kg (Eth$)                          0.45       0.45       0.45       0.45       0.50           0.50
Total Value of Animals
Purchased (Eth$)                 15,750    63,000   189,000   283,500   315,000             315,000
Number of Animals Sold                                       222        888      2,663          3,995
Average weight/head (kg lw)                                  360        360        360            360
Price/kg (Eth$)                                                0.75       0.75       0.83           0.83
Total Value of Sales (Eth$)                               59,940   239,760   795,704        1,193,706
Value of Incremental Meat                  2/
Production (Eth$)               (15,750)- (63,000) (129,060)  (43,740)  480,704             878,706
1/  Mortality rate is estimated at 4% annually.
2/  Purchase of animals will be financed by credit provided
by Smallholder Fattening Program.
(DX>
May 8, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jiiigga
Value of Total Incremental Meat and Milk Production
(Eth$)
--------------------------------------- Years  -----------------------------------------
1       2          3            4             5             6             7           8-20
Cattle                                     1,856,250    2,207,812    2,850,000    3.253.125    3-662;500    3,662,500
Shoats                                        218,250      445,230       856,704       856,704       856,704       856,704
Camels                                         28,000      214,200       443,520       443,520       443,520       443,520
Smallholder Program
Backgrounding          23,850  95,400      285,200       429,300       473,400       473,400       473,400       473,400
Fattening                                                              480,704       878,706       878,706       878,706
Milk Production                                96,750        96,750      193,500       193,500       290,250       290,250
Grand Total        23,850  95,400   2,484,450    3,393,292    5,297,828    6,098.955    6.605.080    6.605.080
June 25, 1975
~I F3



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Range Cattle - Value of Incremental Meat and Milk Production
-----------------------------------------------  Years-------------
A.  Meat Production                                1              2              3            4              5              6             7            8-20
Number of Animals -/ (without project)          221,000        300,000       365,000       383,600       420,900        443,600        452,000        452,000
Number of Animals 1/(With project)              221,000        300,000       365,000       410,600       462,600        499,300        500,700        500,700
Offtake Rate (without project)                        2%             2%           2z%            4%             6%             6%            6%             6%
Offtake Rate (with project)                           2%             2%.           4.5%          9.5%          10 I           10.5%         11%            I M
Incremental Offtake Rate                           -             -                 2.5%          5.5%           4Z            4.5%           5%             5%
NfherE Markctctd   without pfujeuL)               4,4zo         6,000          7,300        16,424         27,756        29,958         30,042         30,042
Numbers Marketed (with project)                   4,420          6,000        16,425        39,007         46,260        52,426         55,077         55,077
Incremental Offtake Marketed                       -             -             9,125        22,583        18,504         22,468         25,035         25,035
Incremental Increase in weight kg/head                                             5             7.5           10.0          12.5           15             15
Incremental Production 2/  kg lw                                           2,363,375    5,938,302      5,088,600      6,272,325      7,084,905      7,084,905
Price kg lw (Eth$)                                                                 0.45          0.45           0.50          0.50           0.50           0.50
Value of Incremental Production                                            1,063,518    2,672,235      2,544,300      3,136,162      3,542,452      3.542,452
B. Milk Production
Number of cows                                                               114,800       129,000       134,000        132,000        132,000        132.000
Incremental Production kg/head                                                     5             5             10             10             15            15
Price/kg (Eth$)                                                                    0.15          0.15           0.15           0.15          0.15           0.15
Total Incremental Production (liter)                                         574,000       645,000     1,340,000      1,320,000      1,980,000      1,980,000
Value of Incremental Milk Production                                          86,100        96,750        201,000       198,000        297,000        297,000
Total Incremental Milk and Meat Production                                 1,149,618    2,768,985      2,745,300      3,334,162      3,839,452      3,839,452
1/  The difference in herd numbers is very difficult to estimate.  The only benefit therefore, credited to the project will be the difference
in offtake rates and the gain in weight.                                                                                                                  lb
2/  The average weight per animal marketed is estimated at 250 kg lw.                                                                                           m
June 25, 1975                                                                                                                                                4- 



ETHIOPIA
RANGE LANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Shoats -- Value of Incremental Meat Production
---------------------------------------------- Years ------------------------------------------ ---
1             2             3             4             5             6             7           8-10
Number of Animals I/ (without project)        248,000       260,000      300,000       400,000       500,000       600,000       750,000       750,000
Marketable Offtake Rate (without Proj.)             2%            27            5%           10%           127%          13%           13%           137
Number of Animals    (with project)           248,000       260,000      300,000       400,000       550,000       750,000       800,000       800,000
Marketable Offtake Rate                             2%            2%            6%           11%           13%           15%           15%           15%
Incremental Offtake Rate                         -             -                1%            1%           2i%                          2%            2%
Numbers Marketed (without project)              4,960         5,200        15,000       40,000        60,000        78,000        97,500        97,500
Numbers Marketed (with project)                 4,960         5,200        18,000       44,000        71,500       112,500        120,000      120,000
Incremental Offtake                              -             -           3,000         4,000        11,500        34,500        22,500        22,500
Incremental Production (kg/head)                                                1             1             2             2             3             3
Total Incremental Production(kg) 2-                                   93,000       144,000       430,500    1,087,500        922.500       922,500
Price/kg (Eth$)                                                                 0.90          0.90          0.96          0.96          0.96          0.96
Value of Total Incremental Production (Eth$)                               83,700      129,600       413,280    1,044,000        885,600       885,600
1/  It is assumed that shoats will increase with and without the project similar as with cattle.
2/  Average weight of shoats marketed is estimated at 25 kg lw.
June 25, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGEIANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Camels - Value of Incremental Meat Production
------------------Y-------------------------  Years  -------------------------------------------------
1              2              3              4              5 -                            7             8-20
Number of Animals (with and without project)  132,000             140,000        150,000        160,000        170,000         180,000        190,000         200,000
Marketable Offtake Rate (without project)                5%             5%              5%            5%              5%             5%              5%              5%
Marketable Offtake Rate (with project)                   5%             5%              5%            5.57.           5.5%           6%              6%              6%
Incremental Offtake Rate                              -              -              -                 0.5             0.5            1%              1%              1%
Numbers marketed (without project)                   6,600          7,000          7,500          8,000          8,500           9,000           9,500         10,000
Numbers marketed (with project)                      6,600          7,000          7,500          8,800          9,350          10,800         11,400          12,000
Incremental Offtake                                   -              -              -               800            850           1,800          1,900           2,000
Incremental Production kg/head                                                                        5              7.5            10              10             10
Total Incremental Production I (kR lw)                                                          284,000        325,125         648,000        684,000         720,000
Price/kg (Eth$)                                                                                       0.70           0.77            0.77            0.77           0.77
Value of Total Incremental Production                                                           198,800        250,346        498,960         526,680         554,400
1/ Average weight of camels marketed is estimated at 300 kg lw.
May 6, 1975                                                                                                                                                          D >:



ETrIOPIA
R,AMr.ETANTfS D)EVELOPMENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Grazier Scheme - Value of Incremental Meat Production
- _______________----- Years --------------------------
1         2           3          4           5         6-20
Number of animals purchased                1,000      1,000      3,000       3,000       3,000      3,000
Average weight/head
(kg LW)                                    140        140        140         140        140         140
Price kg (Eth$)                              0.45       o.45       o.45        0.45        0.50       0.50
Total Value of Animals                    63,000    63,000    189,000    189,000    210,000    210,000
Purchased
Number of Animals Sold                       960        960      2,880       2,880       2,880      2,880
Average weight/head
(kg LW)                                    240        240        240         240         240        240
Price/kg (Eth$)                              0.66       o.66       o.66        0.66        0.72       0.72
Total Value of Sale (Eth$)               151,680   151,680    455,o4o    455,040    497,664    497,664
Value of Incremental Meat
Production (Eth$)                       88,680   _88680    266,040    266,040    287,664    287,664
June 25, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Northeast Rangelands
Irrigation/Water Spreading - Value of Incremnental Crop Production
----------------------------- Years -------------------------------------
1       2              3              4                 5              6-20
Cotton
Surface Cultivated (ha)                       -         140            560            980            1,400             1,400
Yield/ha kg                                             800            800            800              800               800
Incremental Production(kg)                    -    112,000        448,000        784,000         1,120,000        1,120,000
Price/kg (Eth$)                                           0.70           0.70           0.70             0.70              0.70
Value of Incremental Production (Eth$)                 78.400        313,600        548.800          784,000           784,000
Sorghum/Maize
Surface Cultivated (ha)                                  40            140            280              400              400
Yield/ha kg                                             800            800            800              800               800
Incremental Production(kg)                          32,000        112,000        224,000           320,000          320,000
Price/kg (Eth$)                                           0.20           0.20           0.20             0.20              0.20
Value of Incremental Production (Eth$)                  6,400         22,400         44,800           64,000            64,000
Groundnut
Surface Cultivated(ha)                                   20             80            140              200               200
Yield/ha kg                                             600            600            600              600               600
Incremental Production(kg)                          12,000         48,000         84,000           120,000          120,000
Price/kg  (Eth$)                                          0.26           0.26           0.26             0.26              0.26
Value of Incremental Production (Eth$)               3,120          12,480         21,840           31,200           31,200
Grand Total                                     87,920        348,480        615.440          879,200           879.200
May 7, 1975
t X
c    I
o:v



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.
Northeast Rangelands
Value of Total Incremental Meat, Milk and Crop Production
(Eth$)
-----------------------------  ___------------   Years   -------- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -
1              2              3               4              5               6              7           8 - 20
Cattle                                                       1,063,518       2,672,235      2,544,300      3,136,162       3,542,452       3,542,452
Shoats                                                          83,700         129,600        413,280      1,044,000         885,600         885,600
Camels                                                                         284,000        325,125        648,000         684,000         720,000
Milk Production                                                 86,100          96,750        201,000        198,000         297,000         297,000
Crop Production                                 87,920         348,480         615,440        879,200        879,200         879,200         879,200
Grazier Scheme                   88,680         88,680         266.040         256 040        287,664        287,664         287.664         287,669
Total                          88,640        176,600      1,847,838        4,064,065      4,650,569      6,193,026       6,575,916       6,611,921
v 2z
o->z
June 25, 1975                                                                                                                                                    DC



ANNEX 20
Page 1
ETHTOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Markets and Prices
A. Markets
Trade Stock Flows
1.        Ethiopia can roughly be divided into livestock consumption and
livestock production areas. In the south the main production areas with sur-
pluses for export are the southern rangelands and the area to the east of the
Rift Valley, The main flows of trade stock are from these producing areas to
the three main consumption centers: (i) Addis Ababa, with its satellite mar-
ket at Nazret; (ii) the Melgue Wondo Meat Packing Plant; and (iii) the densely
populated coffee growing area around Dilla. There is also a long established
export trade of live animals moving south into Kenya. In the north, surpluses
are available in general throughout the whole area, and there are four main
consumer centers: the meat factories at Gonder, Kembolcha and Mekele, and
the Asmara meat factories and town. The trade stock pattern is:
(a) from the western parts of Tigre Administrative Region to
Gondar or direct to Asmara;
(b) from the remaining highland areas to convenient meat plants;
and
(c) from the eastern lowlands (Danakil area) mainly west to
Kembolcha and Mekele.
In the east, the main producing area is the Ogaden between the Wabi Shebelli
River and the Somalia border. The focal point for cattle consumption is
Dire Dawa with its meat factory and its rail outlet to Addis Abaha and Djibouti.
In the past two years, Saudi traders have exported cattle to Jedda via Djibouti.
For sheep and goats, however, the trade stock movement is across the border
at various points east and southeast of Dire Dawa to traders in Somalia who
re-export the stock to Arabian countries through the Somalia port of Berbera.
A small official export trade in shoats has recently developed, with fattening
in the Awash valley and export via Assab to Saudi Arabia. In addition to the
above trade stock movements there is a constant flow of immature male cattle
from the main producing areas for resale as work oxen in the more heavily
cultivated highland areas throughout the country.



ANNEX 20
Page 2
2.        Trade stock including immature work oxen are normally moved on the
hoof without veterinary restriction along traditional routes to the consumer
areas. These traditional routes, which often pass along the side of an
existing road, do not constitute legal rights of way and have no fenced and
controlled grazing and watering facilities, nor fenced night resting paddocks.
Journeys between watering points are, therefore, often much longer than desir-
able, and animals are only able to graze sporadically as they move along the
route. This unsatisfactory situation results in heavy weight losses, excessive
feed costs (particularly in closely farmed areas), and in fines for trespass
and damage to crops. Surveys carried out by LMB indicate a mean weight loss
of 1-1.5% liveweight per head per day of movement. This amounts to some
Eth$ 15.00 per head per trip if valued at the market price paid per kg at the
terminal market. The value of theft and mortality is indicated Eth$ 1.80 per
head per trip. The IDA financed Livestock II Project is designed to assist
these flows to internal markets by the construction of improved stock routes
including night paddocks, water points, bush markets and abattoirs.
3.        At present, railways transport only a small percentage of marketed
livestock, mainly because railway routes do not cross the major livestock
districts. A noticeable exception is the transport of prime quality Harar
cattle from Dire Dawa to Addis Ababa. More recently, railways have been used
to transport live cattle and sheep from Dire Dawa to Djibouti for export to
Saudi Arabia. Trucking of animals is very much of an exception to usual prac-
tice, although in view of the rapid development of the highway network, this
could play an increasingly significant role - especially for sheep and goats
which are not as easy to trek as cattle. In fact, trucking is increasingly
being used for transporting sheep from the Ogaden region to Dire Dawa for
further export to Saudi Arabia. The Second Livestock Project is expected
to encourage trucking of livestock by LMB and private traders.
Market Channels and Facilities
4.        The domestic market for livestock is, by and large, relatively
simple. Livestock markets may be grouped into three categories:
(a) Primary markets, where stock enters the trade, and which
are attended by any number of small dealers.
(b) Secondary markets, located in cropping areas on the
route towards the final destination.
(c) Terminal markets, located in the main consumption areas -
towns and cities, coffee-growing areas or industrial abattoirs.
Animals are normally traded by direct and time-consuming bargaining with
limited public awareness of actual price levels. In the smaller markets the
buyers, apart from a few local butchers, are usually small livestock traders
sometimes purchasing on behalf of bigger traders and sometimes purchasing
with the sole objective of re-trading the stock in another market further
down the stockroute. In a few markets, auctioneers have established themselves



ANNEX 20
Page 3
and operate on a tribal basis, but this method of selling is not widely prac-
ticed. Direct bargaining is also the rule in the bigger markets or near con-
sumer centers where the buyers are predominantly butchers and butchers' agents.
Sales of slaughter stock to the meat factories are sometimes made direct by
the producer, but the more usual system is for the factory to support a few
major traders who themselves buy at the bigger markets and have arrangements
with smaller traders and agents at smaller markets. Municipalities throughout
the country charge a fee for the use of the "market", commonly between Eth$
2.00 and Eth$ 3.00 per head for cattle and camels and Eth$ 0.30 - Eth$ 0.40
for sheep and goats; only a proportion of the fees are actually collected,
however. LMB has arrangements for improved fee collection in the newly devel-
oping bush markets now being constructed under the Second Livestock Project.
Because of a lack of adequate market facilities, a significant percentage of
trade takes place outside markets, both in areas around the market place where
buyers and sellers meet informally, and in the cattle producing areas between
cattle owners and itinerant traders.
5.        It is expected that the bulk of Project production would be marketed
through existing marketing channels. The amount of additional exports generat-
ed by the Project is difficult to estimate, but it is expected that 75% of the
feedlot production (6,000 head of cattle) will be exported either as live ani-
mals or as meat. In addition, 25% of the animals (about 3,000) fattened by
smallholders are projected to be exported through existing private channels.
Ranches will sell their animals primarily to the feedlot and smallholders;
unsuitable animals will be sold in the local market. The establishment of
the ranches, the smallholder fattening programs and the feedlot would intro-
duce new and modern elements in the traditional production and marketing sys-
tem of the Ethiopian livestock sector. It would provide new and profitable
market outlets for nomadic stockowners and thus improve competition in the
livestock market. Considering these improvements, the existing network of
markets and traders is reasonably efficient and adequate to meet local and
export needs (see Chart, World Bank 9816).
Domestic Markets
6.        According to a recent LMB Study, internal consumption of meat in
Ethiopia absorbs approximately 90% and 95% of the total offtake of cattle
and shoats respectively.



ANNEX 20
Pagf 4
Disposition of Marketed Livestock
(1972/73)
Cattle              Sheep and Goats
Head        % Total    Head         % Total
Rural consumption               1,368,500        70.9   12,731,500        87.4
Urban consumption                  361,000        18.7    1,117,500        7.7
Exports (recorded) /1              139,500        7.2       116,000        0.8
Exports (unrecorded)                60,000         3.2      600,000        4.1
Total offtake              1,929,000       100.0   14,565,000       100.0
/1   Including animals passing through the processing plants.
Source:   TMB.
The study also indicate that urban consumption absorbs some 19% and 8% of
cattle and sheep offtakes respectively; however, the relative importance of
urban consumption is increasing rapidly (at least in the case of beef) and
it is expected that this trend will become more and more marked over the coming
decades. In view of the growing significance of urban demand, a rapid devel-
opment of marketing activities is to be expected.
7.        Domestic consumption of meat per capita is well above levels in
most other African countries; however, as total meat production is growing
more slowly than the population, per capita consumption is decreasing. In
1967/68 it was estimated at 15.3 kg, but by 1972/73 it had fallen by 9% to
13.9 kg. Meat production is estimated to have grown by 4.3% during these
five years, while the population increased by 11.2%. This estimate was
also affected by the fact that exports grew by 53% in this same period.
More than 50% of domestic consumption consists of beef, while the rest is
largely sheep, goat and poultry meat.
External Trade
8.        Among the various commodities exported by Ethiopia, livestock and
livestock products are second in importance only coffee, and have contributed
about 10% - 15%0 to the total export earnings during recent years. Total
official exports of livestock and livestock products from Ethiopia increased
from Eth$ 7.9 million in 1968 to Eth$ 25.3 in 1973, representing an annual
increase of 267; this reflects both an increase in quantities of recorded
meat and animals sold as well as rising world market prices.



ANNEX 20
Page 5
Value and Proportion of Ethiopian Livestock Export Trade /1
by Type of Product, 1968-1972
(Eth$ '000)
1968-        1969        1970         1971          1972      1973
Type of            % of         % of        % of         % of         X of         Z of
Exports     Value Total Value Total Value Total Value Total Value Total Value Total
Total live
exports    2,433 (32)  3,228 (42)  2,154 (26)  2,352 (21)  3,873 (20)  7,810 (31)
Total meat
exports/2  2,514 (31)  1,258 (17)  2,160 (26)  3,197 (29)  7,131 (36)  9,027 (36)
Total pro-
cessed
exports    3,002 (37)  3,170 (41)  3,904 (48)  5,638 (50)  8,712 (44)  8,504 (34)
Total live-
stock ex-
ports      7,949 (100) 7,658 (100) 8,218 (100)11,187(100) 19,716(100) 25,341(100)/3
/1   Includes live animals and meat but excludes hides and skins and by-products.
/2   Excludes meat in tins and extracts and is mainly fresh, chilled and frozen
beef.
/3   The percentage of live animals is higher than shown in the recorded figures
as all the extensive unrecorded export of meat is live.
The most significant feature in the development of meat exports is the rapid
increase in the share of processed and fresh chilled and frozen meat (FCF).
Indeed, the number of livestock going to export abattoirs, and from there to
canning plants or directly for export as fresh, chilled or frozen meat has been
growing, especially since 1970. Sales to export abattoirs totalled an estimated
68,000 head of cattle in 1970/71 (13%' of the commercial cattle trade), 90,000
head in 1971/72 (18%7 of commercial trade), and 130,000 head in 1972/73 (25% of
commercial cattle trade). The recorded export trade in live animals is quite
variable and erratic. While exports were very high during the early sixties,
they tended to decline until the beginning of the seventies. In 1973, however,
they reached a new height, mainly reflecting increased official exports to
Saudi Arabia, Ethiopia's main market for live animals.
9.        Ethiopian's FCF meat is not acceptable to many importing countries
due to the presence of endemic diseases. Despite the veterinary bans, FCF
meat exports more than tripled during past years. Italy took up the great-
est volume of this trade--most of it in lower quality meat--and further
quantities went to Belgium and the Netherlands. The higher value beef was
sold to the territory of the Afars and Issas and in smaller quantities to
Israel, Lebanon and other Middle Eastern countries. Italy is the main
established purchaser of Ethiopia's processed meat. Israel and Japan are
rapidly becoming important buyers.



ANNEX 20
Page 6
10.       In addition to the meat exports, there is a large traditional
export trade in live animals, most of which is unrecorded.  Estimates indi-
cate the unrecorded annual movement of cattle from Ethiopia to Kenya may
amount to as much as 50,000 head, most of it originating in the southern
region of Ethiopia. This trade is encouraged by Kenya's more efficient
marketing system and the higher prices paid to producers. The annual flow
of livestock to Somalia is apparently even greater. It has been variously
estimated at from 4,000 to 20,000 head of cattle, 3,000 to 10,000 camels and
250,000 to 1,000,000 sheep and goats. In fact, Somalia is maintaining a
lively trade with Arab countries based on Ethiopian livestock (particularly
sheep and goats) through its modern port of Berbera. Better organized markets,
modern slaughter facilities, higher prices and generally lower prices for con-
sumer goods on the Somalian side of the border are the major reasons for this
clandestine trade. It is estimated that the value of unrecorded trade usually
exceeds that of recorded trade. The development of improved stockroutes,
markets, slaughter facilities and the payment of higher producer prices to
stockowners in southern and eastern parts of Ethiopia is expected to substan-
tially reduce unofficial trade.
B. Prices
Domestic Prices
11.       The slow rate of growth of meat production and the rising demand
from increasing population, exports, and purchasing power in the expanding
urban sector has resulted in rising meat prices. The following table gives
an indication of the prices paid on average at terminal markets.
Cattle: Average Price/kg Liveweight
(Eth cents)
Prices                     1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1974/75
Paid by the meat
processing industry
(exclusively low
quality animals)              16        19        22       27        29      40-45
Paid by exporters of
live animals (average
to good quality)              35       35-40   40-45    40-45       45-50    55-60
Paid for domestic
consumption:
good quality                40       40-45   40-45    45-55      45-60    55-65
average quality             22        25     25-30      30        30-35    40-50
Source: LMB and mission estimates.



ANNEX 20
Page 7
Prices paid in 1974 (for example) for average to good quality animals were
1/3 less to the producer; in that year prices averaged about 45 Eth cents,
the price used in Project calculations. Average prices for locally consumed
cattle as well as for export of live animals have increased by 70%-80% over
the last few years. The most striking feature of the cattle price structure
is the low prices paid by processing plants and the high increase of these
prices since 1970/71. The relatively low prices reflect the fact that pro-
cessing plants cannot compete for average quality animals and are therefore
buyers of poor quality stock, mainly aged work oxen and culled cows. Until
1972/73 the increase in prices can be explained by the low level of Ethiopian
meat prices which were well below those in comparable countries (but which
are now rising nearer world market average prices). The rise up to 1974/75
is mainly explained by the scarcity of animals due to the recent drought.
Faced with a more limited and a more expensive supply and with falling world
market prices for their products, processing plants are having real problems
in obtaining sufficient animals at a price which they can afford, and often
are now working well below their full capacity.
12.       There is a small domestic market for high-quality beef  concentrated
in Addis Ababa and, to a small extent, in Asmara. One aspect of this trade
is the demand for large (370 kg and upwards) well-fattened oxen (which come
mainly from Harar Province) for weddings and other feasts. It has been
estimated that as many as 10,000 of these animals may be produced annually,
and that they sell in Addis Ababa at prices from Eth$ 1.00 to Eth$ 1.50 per
kg liveweight during peak demand periods. The major part of this trade is,
however, aimed at the international community and the high income Ethiopian
consumer in Addis Ababa and Asmara.
13.       Local prices vary with the distance to major consuming centers.
The price paid at country markets in both the north and south for average
quality animals destined for local consumption varies between 40 and 45
Eth cents per kg. Prices in or near major towns are somewhat higher.
Prices also vary with the season. In the north, for example, where there
is a marked dry season, there is a more pronounced seasonal fluctuation
in prices; at the Asmara market the range is apparently from about 40 Eth
cents per kg in October to January just after the rains, to 60 Eth cents
per kg in June/July at the end of the dry season.
14.       Both sheep and cattle prices are determined by the demand for local
consumption. Generally mutton prices are double those of beef and there are
larger variations between regions and over time. The price gradient, reflect-
ing the distance from consumption centers, is greater than for cattle,
presumably as sheep are more difficult to trek and as other forms of trans-
port require cash outlays. Goat prices are up to 25% less than sheep prices
for an animal of the same size and weight.
Export Prices
15.       In line with world market prices, prices of exported meat products
significantly increased until 1972/73. Since then export prices for meat
products have tended to fall on European markets, while prices for live
animals exported to Saudi Arabia have remained fairly stable. (There are



ANNEX 20
Page 8
indications, in fact, that prices in the Jedda market fluctuate less than
world prices.) Although export prices have tended to rise in line with
world prices, price levels are below world market prices on average. While
in the Middle East prices for Ethiopian exports approach those of other
exporting countries, the unit value of exports from Ethiopia to Africa and
to the E.E.C. is well below the world average (see Table 1 and Chart, World
Bank 9952). This is probably explained by a penalty incurred for the disease
risk of Ethiopian exports. Despite more comparable external prices for the
export of beef on some markets, there is a large divergence between Ethiopia
and other countries when internal liveweight prices are compared (Table 2).
One would expect that Ethiopian prices would be comparable with Kenyan prices.
In fact, Ethiopian prices are significantly lower than those in Kenya,
reflecting the heavy costs and large margins incurred in getting livestock
from the producer to the final market. However, with the expected improve-
ment of the marketing system, veterinary services and the production of
better quality animals, it is likely that Ethiopia will participate in the
higher valued trade and that export prices will increase at a greater rate
over the coming years to reach world market levels. Whether these price
increases will be passed on to the producer will depend on a better integra-
tion of stockowners into the market economy and Government's export and
pricing policy.
16.       Despite the rapid increase in livestock exports, the total quantity
and value of exports has been relatively low in relation to the potential of
the Ethiopian livestock industry. The development of the industry has been
handicapped by the presence of endemic diseases, marketing problems resulting
in low producer prices, and a lack of organization in the export trade of
cattle. The future development of the livestock export trade will to a
large extent depend on Government's ability to overcome these difficulties,
the future needs of the domestic market, and on Government's pricing and
export policy.
C. Supply and Demand Projections
17.       At present there are no extensive data available on present meat
consumption patterns in Ethiopia and little is available on matters such as
herd dynamics, offtake rates, etc. The following projections are therefore
of necessity somewhat speculative in nature, and are intended to describe
only broad future tendencies in Ethiopia's meat markets. 1/
18.       Recent LIB studies indicate that over the period 1974-1984 beef
production is projected to rise at 2.08% annually to reach a volume of
260,000 tons in 1984 (compared to 210,000 in 1974). This increase will be
1/   All projections are made in constant prices.



ANNEX 20
Page 9
due to a slight increase in cattle numbers (0.30%/year), a higher increase
in the offtake rate (1.06%/year), and a very slight increase in carcass
weight (0.16%/year). The modest increase in these parameters is attribu-
table in part to the effects of the JP-15 rinderpest campaign as well as to
livestock projects; these are expected to affect about 25% of the cattle
population by 1984/85. It was assumed that the JP-15 campaign (which has
been operating in Ethiopia for the past five years) would result in an
increase in the offtake rate and therefore in total production rather than
in an increase in herd size.
19.       The LMB studies made similar assumptions for sheep and goat meat
production. Data on the present rate of expansion of the national shoat
flock are not available. Evidence suggests, however, that the rate of
increase is very small and is limited by the available grazing. The proj-
ected rate of increase will, therefore, be very small, and is estimated at
0.36% per annum. In general the offtake rates will be assumed to remain
static; however, in areas affected by LMB projects, the present offtake
rate is expected to increase by 10%. Since the shoats in these areas repre-
sent about 15% of the national flock, the national offtake rate is projected
to increase by 0.15% per annum. LMB projects will also result in a small
increase in the average carcass weight (about 0.20% per year). Thus, shoat
production between 1974 and 1985 will rise from 114,000 tons to 122,500 tons,
an increase of 7.5,% over the 10-year period. These projections seem to be
realistic, provided LMB projects are implemented without major delays and
difficulties.
20.       The main factors determining future demand are population growth,
increases in income and the relationship between income and the demand for
meat. The annual growth rate of the Ethiopian population is 2.5%, with an
increase of 2.1% annually in the rural population and 6.6% in urban areas.
On the basis of these figures, the total Ethiopian population at the end of
1974 was about 26,567,500, with 11.5% of the population being urban. No
changes are expected in these growth rates during the next 10 years.
21.       Ethiopia's economic growth prospects are seriously affected by the
stagnation (if not recession) in world output and trade. Ethiopian exports
are declining, while import prices are rising, thus resulting in a consid-
erable deterioration in the country's terms of trade. In addition, the
proposed massive redistribution of land and the ensuing fundamental changes
in the productive and power structures in the rural areas are expected to
have in the short term a detrimental effect on agricultural production and
income. Hence, the mission believes that per capita income will grow at
an annual rate of only 0.5% until the end of this decade. During the early
eighties, however, it is expected that growth will accelerate so that per
capita income is likely to increase by 1.5% per annum. Furthermore, during
both periods it is assumed that--as in past years--incomes of the rural
population will grow less rapidly than those of the urban population.
22.       Reliable figures on income elasticities for Ethiopia are very
scarce. Studies made in Ethiopia and other African countries, however,
indicate that the income elasticity of demand for meat in Ethiopia ranges



ANNEX 20
Page 10
between 0.7% and 1.2%, depending on the type of meat. To simplify demand
projections an income elasticity of 1 has been assumed; consequently domes-
tic demand for meat has been estimated to increase by 3% until i980 and 4%
thereafter.
Export Demand
23.       As previously mentioned, exports of livestock and livestock
products have increased rapidly in recent years. Although export demand
for Ethiopian livestock is presently being depressed by unfavorable world
market conditions, it is estimated that in the medium term exports will
continue to rise. Internally, existing abattoirs and export organizations
will be seeking to increase their output. Several enterprises have plans
for setting up new export oriented livestock ventures, and it is anticipated
that others will become involved in feedlot operations aimed at the export
market. However, the future of these companies will very much depend on
Government's policy toward foreign private companies. At present, it is
difficult to forecast to what extent nationalization of these enterprises
will limit their export performance. Furthermore, as a result of marketing
development in the southern and eastern parts of Ethiopia, the level of
illegal exports can be expected to fall. In addition, the implementation
of LMB projects in these areas (including the establishment of ranches and
a feedlot, better veterinary services and grazing conditions) will improve
the quality of animals and thus open new and higher return markets for
Ethiopian meat products.
24.       Although world market prices for meat fell dramatically in 1974,
it is projected that the long-term upward trend in prices (in constant terms)
will continue at the end of the 1970's. 1/  In fact, world market prices
are forecast to increase by 2.2% per year during the period 1978-1985.
Europe's beef deficit is projected to grow by 1980, but even more impressive
is the expected increase in import requirements for live animals in the
Middle Eastern countries. Because of diseases such as rinderpest and foot-
and-mouth, it is not possible in the short or medium term to envisage
Ethiopia being able to export fresh, chilled or frozen meat to the high-
return markets of Europe. It is unlikely that the next few years will be
sufficient in which to institute the basic veterinary improvements necessary
to remove this trade obstacle. Hence, in the medium term the bulk of
Ethiopia's meat exports will be in the form of live exports. However,
Ethiopia should be able to gradually penetrate the export market for beef
in the Middle East as well as in some European countries. In fact, it is
expected that the strong preference of Arab Middle Eastern countries
(mainly Saudi Arabia) for live animals will relax, and enable an expansion
of the chilled or frozen beef trade. The industrial development of these
countries now being financed by oil revenues should be well advanced by 1980
and should help ease these restrictions. Furthermore, it is projected that
1/ IBRD Price Forecasts for major primary commodities - June 19, 1974.



ANNEX 20
Page 11
demand for beef for the processipg industries in most importing countries
will rise even faster than that for meat as a whole, thus providing good
export prospects for high quality beef coming from Ethiopian feedlots.
However, the opening of these new markets will very much depend on the
establishment of a more sophisticated meat processing industry and on
Government's export policy. Overall, considering the favorable demand
outlook in world markets--in particular in Near and Middle Eastern countries
--Ethiopia should not encounter any major difficulties in finding profitable
outlets for its meat exports, especially as the share of Ethiopian exports
in these markets will remain very small.
25.       LMB estimates that exports of cattle are expected to increase
from 230,000 head in 1974 to 480,000 head in 1984, an average rate of in-
crease of 7.6% per annum. Legal exports of shoats are now around 150,000
head per annum and illegal exports are estimated at around 500,000 head.
The level of legal exports can be expected to rise as a result of anticipated
improvements in marketing, and investments in fattening and finishing opera-
tions. Although the growth in this export trade is difficult to predict,
it will most likely grow at a rate of 3.3% per annum until 1984. This should
result in legal exports of 600,000 head and illegal exports of 300,000 head,
giving a total of 900,000 head per annum in that year.
Conclusion
26.       Given these supply and demand projections, it can be concluded
that despite the modestly projected increase in per capita income over the
coming years, demand will tend to exceed available supply of meat in
Ethiopia. Hence, the declining trend in per capita meat consumption in
Ethiopia is likely to continue until the mid-1980's. However, due to the
faster rate of increase in the urban population and to higher urban revenues,
it is likely that consumption of urban inhabitants will decline less than
that of the rural population. Furthermore, because of the relative scarcity
of meat, there will be a steady rise in the level of prices for both cattle
and shoats, estimated at between 1% and 2% up to 1980 and 2%-3% until 1984.
These price projections assume that there will be no import of meat and no
ban on exports.
27.       Faced with growing consumer demand and rising meat prices the
Government has instituted a system of price controls. However, these con-
trols only apply to three broadly defined categories of animals and permit
prices to be negotiated between buyer and seller over a range from Eth$ 150 to
Eth$ 350 per animal. Smaller and larger animals have recently been exempted
from the controls. Thus, it is considered that actual prices will be deter-
mined by market conditions.
28.       Whatever policy Government does follow, it is imperative that
projected price increases for meat in the domestic as well as in world
markets be passed on to the producer. Indeed, providing a financial incen-



ANNEX 20
Page 12
tive will be necessary to stimulate the offtake from the national herd and
channel it into the market stream. Moreover, the small producer, presently
a reluctant seller, may change--his cultural outlook towards cattle if given
greater financial incentives. Thus, a better remuneration for the stock-
owners will be an essential factor in the development of the livestock sector
in Ethiopia and certainly a key element for the success of this Project.
October 30, 1975



ANNEX 20
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Markets and Prices
Unit Value of Ethiopian Beefl' Exports Compared with Some International Beef Prices
(U.S. cents/kg)
--------------- Ethiopian Exports ---------
Years  To Africa  To Middle  To EEC    To    Total  Austra-  Argen-    W.    World
East              Others             lia    tina    Europe
1966-70                                                    88.9    60.5    125.7    82.1
1968         52.3      63.6       45.5    47.7   50.8
1969         75.8      82.4       43.6       -    48.6
1970         67.8      73.4       42.6    50.2   48.6    99.8    68.6    117.9    92.5
2/
1971         67.4     144.8-A    58.4    70.3   64.4   100.1   101.8    120.0   108.8
1972         91.7     111.1       52.3    85.8   67.3   113.7-  123.0    129.4   133.8
SOURCE:  LMB and FAO.
1/ Most of the beef exports are fresh, chilled and frozen.
2/ The quantity shipped to this destination in this year was only about
10% of the normal year's shipments, and the price may therefore be
atypical.
June 13, 1975



ANNEX 20
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
.rANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Markets and Prices
Comparison of Beef Cattle Average Price Trends
in Ethiopia, Kenya and Selected Countries 1968-1973 Eth$-//kg liveweight
Country and Meat Grade                   1968    1969         1970        1971        1972    1972h
ETHIOPIA
Paid for domestically consumed
animals of:
- good quality             0.40  0.40-0.45  0.40-0.45  0.45-0.55  0.45-0.60
- average quality          0.22  0.25        0.25-0.30  0.30         0.30-0.35
Paid by exporters of live animals   0.35  0.35-0.40  0.40-0.45  0.40-0.45  0.45-0.50
Paid by meat processing industry:   0.16  0.19           0.22        0.27        0.29
KENYA
Prime Grade
Choice Grade                                             0.58        0.64        0.75        0.83
FAQ Grade 2/                                             0.54        0.58        0.69        0.75
Standard Grade 2/                                        0.44        D.44        0.50        0.59
Commercial Grade 2/                                      0.37        0.37        0.43        0.49
Manufacturing Grade 10/                                   0.17        0.17       0.23         0.28
AUSTRALIA 3/                             0.75  0.76         0.82        0.86        0.95        1.10-
DENMARK-                                 0.84  0.99         1.05      1 1.10        1.62        2.03
UNITED STATES5/                          1.27  1.39         1.38        1.48        1.63        1.98
ITALY-/                                  1.48  1.58         1.65       1.62        1.88           -
SOURCES: Ethiopian Price Series: LMB
Kenya Price Series:  1970 & 1972 prices derived from:  Newberry, D., 1972,
A Feasibility Study of Intensive Cattle Feeding.
1971 prices derived from: Schaefer-Kehnert, W.,
Economic Aspects of Intensive Beef Cattle Feeding in
Kenya. 1973 prices derived from KMC price schedule,
November 1973.
Other:      Derived from FAO Commodity Outlook 1972-1973.
1/  Exchange rates used to convert all prices into Eth$ are:
Kenya Shillings 1.0 = Eth$ 0.32
U.S.$l.0 = Eth$ 2.07,
2/  These three grades have 'passed' the measles disease check.
3/  Oxen, 1st and 2nd export quality Brisbane.
4/  Steers for export best quality.
5/  Steers, choice, all weights, Chicago.
6/  Oxen 1st quality, wholesale prices, Modena.
7/  Estimate based on 1st quarter only.
8/  January price only.
9/  Kenya Meat Commission prices.
10/ Only 5% of animals in 1970 were classified as manufacturing grade
(with a c.w.d. of 100 kg). The prime source of canning meat is the
commercial grade (with a c.w.d. of 114 kg on average).
June 13, 1975



SOUTHERN RANGELANDS - RANGELAND CATTLE
MARKETING FLOWS
to Kenya .q(                      |           Pastardllists   
Triadevs                  |                                               /Ranches                     
Highland                                Local Markets, AdrMis         4                                                           Smallholder                                F
-    Loca                               Export of Live                                                                      E(port of Chilled
Consumption                             Animals                                                                             B i   Seef
Existing Flows
m_____= New Flows Established as a Result of the Project
Wo.ic5 B.nk -9816
Note;  Most of the increase due to the Project will flow through
cxisting mnarket channels.



UNIT VALUE OF ETHIOPIAN BEEF EXPORTS 1/ COMPARED WITH
INTERNATIONAL PRICE TRENDS
US cts.lkg
150
140 -
WORLD EXPORTS
OF BEEF FOC.F.
130 -
ARGENTINIAN
EXPORTS OF
/  BEEF F,C.F.
120                                                                         /
/  /    AUSTRALIAN
/   /  EXPORTS
110                                                                    /    *   Ethiopian Exports
1/  /  ;/to Middle East
100 _
_   y   y /        Ethiopian
90                    - .0   -                              /1                  Exports to
90 _   , -            /                 /:/    /              Africa
(1966-70) 
80 -         (1966-70)
70-
60 -  (1966-70)  
Ethiopian
Exports to
50 -                                                                           EEC
40                I             l               l              l              1
1968           1969           1970           1971           1972
1/  Excludes beef in cans and extracts; is composed mainly of fresh,
chilled and frozen.
ZAIl RrF  Annpy 9n Tnhlp 1                                                      World Bank-9952



ANNEX 21
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow
1.        Government would finance Eth$ 10.50 million of the total Project
costs. After the implementation period, Government would be required to
cover annual operating costs of about Eth$ 1.9 million as well as debt service
payments to IDA and ADF. As no fees are expected to be charged for Project
services, the Project units would have no direct income. Government would,
however, recoup these expenditures in a number of ways. The most important
of these would be through:
(a) taxes (import duties, transaction taxes, turn-over tax)
levied on Project inputs;
(b) an income tax levied on salaries paid to Project staff;
(c) market and export fees levied on the Project's incremencal
output (accruing both to Government and to LMB);
(d) a tax on the net incremental income accruing to stock owners
as a consequence of the Project.
At full development the Project would generate about Eth$ 3 million of tax
revenues annually; these would cover the Government's debt service payments
to IDA and ADF as well as the operating costs of three implementation units,
and would also allow Government to recuperate part of its initial investment.
Because of the large investment experditures required by the three sub-
projects, the Government cash flow would, however, remain negative (Table 1).
Consequently, Government is now giving consideration to the recommendation
that it levy a special development tax in the form of a head tax on the
inhabitants of the Project areas; such a tax would be instituted only at the
end of the five-year implementation period. As long as the tax is set at a
moderate level, it is believed that this method of raising additional Govern-
ment revenues in the rangelands areas would be justified.
2.        The estimates of income to be derived from taxes on Project inputs
are based on prevailing import duties, transaction and turn-over taxes mainly
for vehicles, fuel, furniture and equipment. Income tax revenue estimates
are based on the income tax laws and the staff list and salary scales used
by the three sub-projects. Expatriate staff is tax exempt. Income taxes
represent about 8.5% of total salaries and wages.
3.        Livestock marketed from the Project area will, for the most part,
be consumed within Ethiopia. If marketed in official markets in the Project



ANNEX 21
Page 2
areas, they will be subject to a market fee; it is assumed that 50% of such
market fees from incremental livestock marketed from the Project areas can
be regarded as a net increase in Government's revenue (the remaining 50%
will be consumed by increased costs). If exported, livestock will be subject
both to an LMB export levy and to a Government export tax; all of these can
be regarded as net additions to Government revenues. The scale of revenues
forecast per animal is as follows:
Cattle    Sheep      Goats
(Eth$)--------
Market Fee (50% of total)                  1.00       0.15      0.15
LMB Export Levy                            1.00      0.20       0.20
Government Export Tax (flat rate}          5.00          -         -
Government Export-Transaction Tac
(at 2%)                                 2.50       0.60       0.60
9.50      0.95       0.95
4.        The incremental number of animals marketed from the Project area
is given in Annex 19. Total fiscal revenue generated by this incremental
offtake will depend on the proportion of animals going through the official
domestic and export markets respectively, as well as the level of future illicit
export trade. Rather arbitrarily it las been assumed that 25% of the incremental
member of animals marketed in the first year of the Project would pay the full
amount of market fees due; this would rise to 45% by the fifth year and to 75%
in the seventh and subsequent years. It is also projected that the percentage
of incremental official exports of animals will slightly increase from 27% at
the beginning of the Project to about 30% at its maturity. Both figures re-
present national average of actual and estimated official exports calculated
by LMB.
5.        The average incidence of all taxation in Ethiopia on gross monetary
national product is about 8%-10%. Figures are not available on inter-regional
differences in the incidence of taxation. It is likely that the marginal
incidence for increments in income is somewhat above the average incidence.
On the other hand, because of the generally low levels of income in the
Project areas, the high level of illicit contraband trade, and the absence
of an effective income tax system among pastoralists, it is probable that
the incidence of general taxation on increments in stockowners' incomes and
expenditure in the Project area will be quite low; it has arbitrarily been
assumed at a rate of 5% of increments in net cash income. It has been assumed
that through better tax collection and increased commercialization in the
Project areas, this percentage would gradually increase to 10% at Project
maturity.
October 30, 1975



ETHIOPA
R1ANG0E1,DS DIEVEWPMPNT PRiOJECT
G-vesse.t C..h Floe
(Eth$ '000)
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    YOear 7    Year 6    Year 9    Year 10    Year 11    Year 12    Year 13    Year 14    Ye-  1.5    Year 16    Year 17    Year 30    Year 19    Year 20
IDIIAADF Credits           16.796      13,154     14,177    11,61.9    11,519
Reveu from Ta...tios
Ge..eral T.xation o
etorkosne-a In-
tre-etal Incom
end Co-soption              6          17       636         922       1,245      1,678       1,872      2,744      2,344      2,344        2.344       2,344        2,344       2.344        2,344        2,344       2,344        2,344       2,344        2,344
Taxee levied on In-
reMental Output
(Market Feen and
E.pert Tames)                                    g0        1.17       1.61        237        346        346         346        346         346          346         346          346          346         346          346         346          346          346
Taes 1evied ne
Pr-je-t Inputs          1,643        605         307        265         265        886        14   147               147        147          346         886         147          147          147         147          147         896          147          147
Ta..s levied us
Projet Staff              305        303         305        33         303         113        113         113        113        11.3         113         113         11           113          113         113          113          113         113          1.13
Total                16 932     14.081    1.7.~50      13.42      13.515       2,91       2,478      2930       _ 2950      2,_930      3,049        3.0683      2,L930       2.,930       2,930       2,950        2,950       3,669        2.950        2,950
NtlTotal Projet
Cost              22,101      17.309    19,634       15,552    15,15i
ope-ating Costs of
Project Omits
after Implemente-
t1.10  Petted                                                                    2,888      1,931       1,532      1,332      1,522        2,310       3 012        1,900       1,032        i,532       1,532        1,932        2,069       1,931        1.332
IDA/ADF Debt S-ro           126         224        330        419         506        506        506         506        306        506        1,176       1,170        1,170       1,103        1,160       1.133        1,159        1,144       1,139        1,134
Tota1                22.227     17.533      18.984    15.971      15.66        3.314      2.437    ..2,03             2,03   ~03         3,406       4,1         3,120        2.697        2,692       2,687        2,682       4,032        3,070        2.665
Net Cash FLo.             (3,275)   (3,432)    (3,479)   (2,543)   (2,148)    (4603               41.       912        912         912      (  337)     ( 4932          170)         233         238          263         268          343)     (  1202         285
ioly 9, 1975



ANNEX 22
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1.        The internal economic rate of return of the proposed Project would
be 24%. The basic assumptions used in this analysis were:
(a) The economic life of the Project was assumed to be 20 years.
(b) Price contingencies, import taxes and duties were excluded
from the cost estimates.
(c) Foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued upward by
30% to a rate of Eth$ 2.70 per US$1.00 (as compared with an
official exchange rate of Eth$ 2.07 per US$1.00) to more
accurately reflect the value of foreign exchange to Ethiopia.
(d) Unskilled labor was shadow priced at Eth$ 300 per man-year
in view of the substantial under-employment in the range
area; this represents approximately the annual income of
a family in the subsistence sector.
2.        Individual rates of return were calculated for each of the three
sub-projects. These were estimated at 22% for Southern Rangelands, 25%
for Jijigga, and 26% for Northeast Rangelands. Rates of return were also
calculated for specific components within the Project; these are estimated
at 17% for the ranches, 29% for the feedlot, and 13% for the water spreading/
irrigation program.
3.        If market prices were used in this analysis the overall Project
rate of return would be 22%. Likewise the rates of return for the three
sub-projects would be 20% for Southern Rangelands, 24% for Jijigga, and 25%
for Northeast Rangelands.
4.        The sensitivity of the rate of return to changes in some of the
basic parameters is illustrated below:



ANNEX 22
Page 2
Internal
Assumptions                              Rate of Return
Basic Run                                     24%
(a)  10% Increase in Costs                    21%
(b)  10% Reduction in Benefits                21%
(c) 10% Increase in Costs and
10% Reduction in Benefits                19%
(d)  25% Increase in Costs                    18%
(e)  25% Reduction in Benefits                17%
(f) 25% Increase in Costs and
25% Reduction in Benefits                12%
October 30, 1975



ETHIOPIA
REANGMENDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Proj-et
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(Eth$ '0005
1         2         3          4         5          6         7        6           9          10         11         12        13        14        IS        16        17         18       19         20
Total ProJect Costs                       23,462    14,804    13,574    10,408       9,353     5,226     4,472      3,389      3,388     3,312     4,690      5,497    4,624      3,510    3,404      3,315    3,315       5,226    4.472      3,388
Total Value of Iscremental
Production
A   Met., Mllk and Cr-pa                     193       410      9,186    14,453    19,403    22,893    24,767    24,803    24,803    24,803    24,803    24,803   24,803    24,803   24,803    24,803   24,803    24,803   24,803    24,803
B.  MeHt and Crops                           193       410     8,809    14,065    18.621    22.114    23,599    23,635    23,635    23,635    23,635    23,635   23,635    23,635   23,635    23,630   23.635    23,635   23,635    23,635
A.  Econo=.i Cooh Flow                   (23.269)  (14,394)   (4,388)    4,045    10,050    17,667    20,295    21,415    21,415    21,491    20 113    19,306   20,179    21,293   21,399    21,488   21,488    19,577   20,331    21,415
B.  Economic Cooh Flow                   (27,269)  (14,394)   (4,765)    3,657      9,268    16,888    19,127    20,247    20,247    20,323    18,945    18,138   19,011    20,125   20,231    20.320   20,320    18,409   19,163    20,247
Rate of RHtoro: A   2E.25%
B- 24.0S%
Oensitiwity Asalytie
- 10% ircrase is Coats            A   22.65%, B = 21.55%                                         - 25h increase io Costa          A  =  19.45%    B = 18.45%                       A defsroeot of pro-jat bhwsfitc by three yeace
- 10% doocoos in R-vs..oa         A   22.45%, B = 21.35%                                         - 25% decrease in Benofits       A      17.95%    B - 16.85%                      would reduce the rate of return to:
-25% ifoor aea io Costs acd
- 10% increase in coats cod 10% d-crooss On rivesuee   A = 20.00%, B = 18.95%                      257. decrease is Benefite      A  -  12.85%    B = 11.95%                                    A: 14.053
0: 13.45%
Noveeber 11, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Rangeland.
Economic Rates of Return Caloclatioon
(Eth$ '000)
Years                           1        2          3         4          5          6         7          8          9          10        ll         12        13         14       10         16        17         181      19         20
Total Proftect Costs t !               9,152      5,776     5,495      4,891      4,317      2,963     2,574      2,118      2,118     2,048      2,398     3,202    2,708       2,233    2,133       2,048    2,048      2,963    2,574       2_il&
Physical Contingancies                   915        578        549       489        432        -         -          -          -         -          -          -        _          _         _          _        _          _         _          _
Shadow Pricig of Poreigs               1,465        620       451        554        225       463        385        148       148        145        360       495       403        199       149        145      145        463       385       148
Exchange Costs                                                                                                                                                                                                            30        30        30
Shadow Pricing of Unekilled Labor       (189)      (389)     (469)      (509)      (954)     (310)      (310)      (310)      (310)     (310)      (310)      (310)    (310)      (310)    (310)       (310)    (31)0)
Adjusted Project Costs                11,545      6,585     6,024      5,205      4,438     3,116      2,649      1,956      1,956     1,883      2,448     3,387    2,801       2,078    1,972       1,883    1,883      3,136    2,649       1,956
Value of Icreo,entsl Production
A. Meet and Milk                       41         70     4,260      6,102      8,339     9,417    10,410    10,410    10,410    10,410    10,410    10,410   10,410    10,410   10,410    10,410   10,410    10,410   10,410    10,410
B.  Meat                               40         70     4,066      5.914     7,952      9,030      9,829     9,829      9,829      9,829      9,829     9,229    9,829       9,829    9,829      9,829    9,829       9,829    9,829      9,329
Shadow Pniolug of Pnrreg                  10         21       41          3
ch.d.  e Pticin9 of F10~g.              to         21       421        630       702        702        702       702        702        702        702       702       702        702      702        702       702        702      702        702
Exchange Esr5AnEs'
Adjusted Value of In-cre=etal
Production
A. Meat and Milk                       S1         91     4,621      6,738      9,041    10,119    11,112    11,112    11,112    11,112    11,112    11,112   11,112    11,112   11,112    11,112   11,112    11,112   11,112    11,112
B. Moat                                2l         91     4,487      6.544     8,654      9,732    10,531    10,531    10,531    10,531    10,531    10,531   10,051    10,531   10,531    10,531   10,531    10,531   10,531    10,531
A. Economic Cash Flow                (11,292)   (6,494)   (1,343)    1,505        4,603     7,003      8,463      9,156     9,156      9,229      8,664     7,725    8,311       9,034    9,140      9,229    9,229       7,996    8,463      9,156
B, Economic Cash Flow                (11,292)   (6,494)   (1,537)    1,539        4,216     6,616      7,882     8,575      8,573      8,648     8,083      7,144    7,730      8,453    8,559       8,648    8,648       7,415    7,882      8,575
Rate of Retrn:  A - 23.65%
B = 22.35%
Sensitivity Analyais
-  10% increase in Costs    _ A = 21.05%, B - 19.85%                                                                                                                                                                                           '.3
-  10% decrees. in Revenues - A = 20.75%, B - 19.55%
-  10% i-rease in Caste and
1 n% derease in Revues -A - i835%, 8 - 17.15%
j/ Import duties and tease encluded.
2/ 75% of Feedlot and 50% of sn=alholder productiom is assumed to be exported.
July 8, 1975



ETHIOPIA
RAGEIAONDS DEVEOPlHENT PROJECT
JiiiERs
Economic Rate of Return Calculatiann
(Eth$ 000)
1         2          3         4          5          6         7          8          9         10         1l         12        13         14        15        16        17         18        19        20
Total Pro1ect Costa 1/                     5,4R3      3,846     3,147      2,255      2,169      1,389     1,193      1,029     1,029      1,029      1,485     1,389    1,193       1,029    1,029      1,029    1,029       1,389    1,193      1,029
Phynical Contingencies                       547'       385        315       226        217        -         -          -         -          -          -         -         -          _        -          -         -          -        -          -
Shadow Pricing of Foreign
Eochange Coats                             824       447        237        151       129        218        184        65         65         65       220        218       184        65        65         65        65       218       184         65
Shadow Pricing of Unskilled Labor           (201)      (350)      (431)     (281)      (281)      (208)     (208)      (208)      (208)     (208)      (208)     (208)    (208)       (208)    (208)      (208)    (208)       (208)    (208)      (208)
Adjusted Pro1ect Costs                     6.654      4,328      3,268     2,351      2,234      1,399     1,169        886       886        886      1,497     1,399    1,169         886      886        886       886      1,399    1,169        886
Value of Incremental
Produ-tion
A.  Meat and Milk                           24         95     2,4i4      5.593     5.298      8,099      6,605     6,605      6,605      6,605     6,605      6,6o5    6,6o5      6,605    6,605       6,605    6,605      6,605    6,605       6.605
8.  Heat                                    24         95     2,387      5,296     5,104      5,905      6,315     6,315      6,315     6,315      6,311      6,315    6,315      6,315    6,315       6,315    6,315      6,315    6,315      6,315
Shadow PricIng of Foreign 2
Exchange Earnings                            6         24       100        182       314        345        345       345        345        345       345        345      345        345       345        345       345       345       345        345
Adjusted Value of Intatementol
Product ion
A.  Heat and Milk                           30        119     2,584      3,575     5.612      6,444      6,950     6,950      6,95o     6,950      6 950      6,95o    6,950      6,95o    6,950       6,950    6,950      6,950    6 950      6 910
B. Meat                                     30        119     2,487      3,478     5,416      6,250      6,660     6.660      6,660     6,660      6,660      6,660    6,660      6,660    6,660      6,660    6,660       6.660    6,660      6,660
A.  Economic Cash Flow                    (6,624)   (4,209)       (664)    1,224      3,373     5,045      5,781     6,064      6,064      6,064     5,453      5,551    5,781      6,064    6,064       6,064    6,064      5,551    5,781       6,064
B. Econonic Cash Flow                     (6,624)   (4,209)       (781)    1.127      3,184     4,851      5,491     5,774      5,774      5,774     5,163      5,261    5.491      5,774    5,774       5,774    5,774      5,261    5,491       5,774
Rate of Returml   A = 25.95%
B = 24.95%
Sensitivity Analysis
-      -.Increase in Costs    A - 23.45%, B = 22.555%
- 10%decre-ne in Reveou-o    A = 23.25%, B = 22.25%
- I6increrte in Costa and
10%de -reaso in Revunnue    A = 20.85%, B = 19.95%
I' Excluding Imporc duties cnd Tanes.
2_  202. of incremental shcot and 50% of snallhclder fattening prcduction c.s.co.d to be expcrted.
July 8, 1975



ANNEX 22
N    N  N       N N   N         -  -*  N
o      N        N      N        -      N-       N-to'         Table4
N      N                        N                   N     N
N-N             N N  N N
N        N    N  N       NO    N
N  N   N NN                             N   NNN
-      N             -  N       N  N-   -        N- N  ON
N        N    N  N       N N   N          - N  0 N
N      0        N    N  -        -      N        N N  N N
-      N             -  N       '0 N             N- N  N N
N        N    N  N       N N   N          - N  N N
N-     N        N    N  N        - -   N-        N N  N N
-      N    I        -  N       N  N   -         N- N     N
N        N    N  N       N N   N          - N  N N
N      N        N    N  N        - -   N        N N  N N
N      N    I        -  N       N  N-            N- N  - N
N        N    N  N       N N   N          - N  N N
N      N        N    N  N       N -   N          N N  N N
-      N                 N      N  N   -         N- N  - N
N        N    N  N       N N   N          N N  N N
N      N        N    N  N        - N   N         N N  N N
N      CC   t        N  N       N  N-  N         N- N  - N
N        N    N  N       N N   N          ON   NO
N      N        N    N  N       N -   N-
N        N    N  -       N N   0'         - N  ON
N      0        0    N  -        - -   N-        N N  N N
N      N             N  N       N  N-  N         N- N  ON
O      N        N    N  N       N N   N-         N N  N N
N      N   I         N  N       N  N   N         N- N  - N
N  '0           N '0  N N
'p     NO    N             -t  No'
Cs
N   C.C                N        N-   N  N        N-N    N        N N  No'
CO                  o    NC               .O        N-N  .1
N4                N        N    N  N        NO
N                                                    '0 N            N-N   NO
CO                         N        N    N  N        N-N    N        & N-  - N
N-   NC              ON    NC  N    N-N No
N                                            N '-0          '0'0   N N
N        N    N  N       N- N             0 N  NO
LI  ON- o '0    iCON                            ONJO
N-               N       N N             ON   NJ N
F
N   N  C'       N- N-           ON   N N                N-N-  N-           C
N-         N-  N   N  N-         - N             N- N  '0 '0             ON    CC           C
O N- N N S   NON-N-N-N-N                                          0 N 0              N
N-  N   N    N  '2       N- N-  N-        N N  00
o                               N-N-             'C
'C          .0   Nj           N                          5   C
'iN       C  ii                                C 01-
00  C                   :   Cj 0    <Nw
C N   N      C  0       C NC   N                          1     C   O        Co
C C   CC         C  0-0         CC   0-0                        CCC
CO CS  C         C  C    Co'  C   C         .00   C      'p   00CC
C   C        C  S  CC        C       CC    0               j    00CC
Nj     000       C  C  0  C CCC   C   00    0                 N      01CC        C
NC  oC   C.  N   00  NC   Co  00   0                         'C ON
C  C             C 0 COO
000       C'  C)   -    00   CCC..                            C CCC       0
0CC.    C' 'C  N ZC.C  'COON    C                            N-N-s.
NO    C  C'            '.0   CO          C                   o N          ON-        N
CC   .0  C  C   *.  CC   00           .  0  C  0       C                  C
5; 14  C  C             0  CC          CC    01      0  000
    F 0<0CC  CC <NW                                          C C
1N                            SO     0-



AFD!CA
MDCRANGELANDS::DEVY_fLGPmf-NT_ PROJECT
LAT~8 10   F  F 9 kTREAS
Ad.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     d
,     ,   -Aho
M.k.1 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    4~4o~     
8 E G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,M  R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      Wt
N~~~~~0                                                                                   g
,~~~                                                                                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __'T     G u     f    f  t
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
7~~~1
(    W  E~Y~  F 0 A  I,ontbo    ) 5                                          '                          A   L   A
ojbib Neke.Be '.~V,
%~~~ /LLUBABOJR    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~BA                          T N
\  KA FA       L~~~~~~~~~~~~~go,o~H   
A                                      N~~~~ EAL  
- 0  M   A  V   L- o






I ;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD  11609
37-                                                           3                                                              3,9.                                                           40'                                                            41                                                              4'?      MAY 1751
R.,      l
NFGHEI Li
D
D,l
D-
DA-                                                                    21
D. Od,
jwv                                                   M,                                                                                                                             F,               k
Ed                                                                                                                         c
c                                                                                                          F Egd,                                                                                                                                               TO
E
tA
EL                                                                                 LE                                           W
ONAL
C;
R CaS
v i                                                                                                                                                   juA
po
Lr                                             tpm  A'An
A  v                                      0 4DOV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L; i
wo        Y''
-d
gig P
NAL -
P.,
-- .                                                                                                                                                                                                                       'p             s4k
v   -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y      'l
.O
u   d:
?R A






. .*..            *- t,                      ....... *'------f ri
_>   I         j                \'  ^   ;'                                         Yg~~~~~~~~~~~~~j 
<-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ED ~t                                                                            I, S e    s
t ; ,( /;    X    T-  >     \,                                                wD z  c 15 t o S > v  e~~~~~~~
[SAYfl;. 2 '-:  \   L  Z           ho            <                                          _              g~~~~~~~~~~~~~






WiB  ~   ~      5    -0 
3~~~~~;S%5                            ''                    0 
I--             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~9MIEA
~~~~~~  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~                /~~~~~~~E
OL 'CS            E~~'                                   4
1--4                                             '
a- ~~~~~~mH-
a-                  </-~-4~--~             ~- E-
c                                           '              ' J--~4-
0                            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
4   -.~~~~~~~~~ r                                         __       _~~~~~~~~~1



