CIRCULATtG COPY
FILE        COpy              TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RERNED TO REPORTS DESK                        Report No. P-1690a-ET
WEPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
ETHIOPIA
FOR
RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 11, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published.
Iquoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                                        = 2.07 Ethiopian Dollars (Eth.$)
Eth. $1.00                                     = US$0.483
Eth. $ 1 million                               = US$483,000
Government of Ethiopia
Fiscal Year
July 8 - July 7



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO ETHIOPIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for the equivalent of US$27.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a rangelands development project. The
proceeds of the credit would be passed on to the Livestock and Meat Board
(LMB) under a Project Financing Agreement on terms and conditions approved
by IDA. The African Development Fund (ADF) would participate through
parallel financing of specific components of one of the sub-projects in
an amount equivalent to 5.0 million African Development Fund Units of
Account (about US$5.5 million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia in March 1975 and
its Report (790a-ET, dated December 1, 1975) has been circulated. This
Report was the subject of discussion with the Provisional Military Ad-
ministrative Council (PMAC) in July. These discussions provided an
opportunity to emphasize the Bank's interest in supporting the Government
in its pursuit of more rapid and more equitable development, while making
clear the Bank's view that these objectives could only be realized if
certain critical policy issues were recognized and acted upon. In
elaborating this theme it was emphasized that time was an essential ele-
ment in the required approach; that whilst the political and administrative
problems which confronted the Government as a consequence of dismantling
the country's ancient feudal system were clearly enormous, nevertheless
action to follow up on the broad reform measures which had been taken was
essential.
3.        Part I of the Economic Report summarizes the areas of concern
upon which discussions with the Government concentrated. It covers problems
of fiscal and public sector financial policy, agricultural pricing policy,
the balance of payments problem, and the problem of over-extension of
public management capacity. Whilst much more needs to be undertaken in
respect of all these problems, the GoverDnent has moved rapidly on some
of them and if the country continues along its present path the basis will
be laid for more rapid economic and social development in Ethiopia in the
future.



-2-
Basic Economic Situation
4.        This prospect of a more rapid rate of development would, of course,
be from a situation of desperate poverty. Ethiopia, with an annual per capita
income of only US$86 in 1973, is classified by the UN as one of the 25 least
developed countries of the world. The population is predominantly rural and
depends heavily on agriculture for its livelihood. An estimated 85 to 90% of
the people are subsistence farmers living in isolated rural villages. Most
farming units are quite small; a recent survey in one province showed that 92%
of the cultivated holdings were less than one hectare. Agricultural produc-
tivity is, in general, very low. Methods of cultivation used by most farmers
have changed little over many centuries; the soils in many highland areas are
seriously depleted from prolonged overgrazing and overcropping; and the systems
of land tenure had not in general provided adequate incentives for investments
which would raise farmers' productivity. The development of agriculture has been
and continues to be constrained by the lack of transportation. As a consequence,
there has been little or no improvement in rural living standards in recent
years. Whilst the developnment of agriculture raises extremely difficult
problems, the lack of other resources means that economic progress in Ethiopia
will have to rest almost entirely on developing agriculture.
Economic and Social Objectives
5.        The broad economic and social goals of the new Government include
the abolition of poverty, the elimination of exploitation, the expansion of
production to meet the basic needs of the people, a more equal distribution of
economic benefits and a wider participation in the development process. The
underlying development philosophy which Ethiopia has adopted in pursuit of its
economic objectives is "Ethiopian Socialism." A number of specific reforms
have been introduced in line with the Government's declaration on socialist
economic policy. Various enterprises which had been owned or controlled by
the aristocracy have been taken over by the state. On January 1, 1975, all
financial institutions (banks, insurance companies and savings associations)
were nationalized. In early February some 100 medium- and large-scale manu-
facturing and distributing firms were also nationalized: 72 were taken over
entirely and the Government indicated it would acquire a majority interest in
29 others. The Government has stated that compensation will be paid to the
former owners of nationalized firms, and it is currently establishing the
machinery to handle claims swiftly or refer them to mutually agreeable arbi-
trators. Also in early February, a new Ministry of National Resources
Development (MNRD) was established. This Ministry has been given wide-ranging
authority to "encourage, promote, establish and operate public enterprises
in agriculture, mining, industry, commerce and services." In March, the
Government issued a proclamation "to provide for the ownership and control by
the Government of the means of production." This decree specifies certain
sectors of economic activity which may be undertaken only by government, others
which may be undertaken jointly by government and foreign capital with majority
government participation, and activities not reserved to state participation
which may be undertaken by the private sector.



-3-
6.        In March 1975, the PMAC issued the long-awaited rural land reform
proclamation. (A subsequent decree provided for nationalization of urban
lands.) The basic thrust of the reform has been nationalization of all rural
land. In former tenant- and owner-cultivated areas, user rights of up to ten
hectares have been allocated to each farm family. Former commercial farms
have been turned over to smallholders or are being operated as cooperatives
or state farms. There has been some opposition to the land reform decree, but
the measure appears to have been accepted by the majority of the Ethiopian
population, and the Government appears to be able to carry out development
activities effectively in most parts of the country.
7.        In outlining its development priorities the Government has indicated
that it will give primary emphasis to agriculture and to narrowing the gap be-
tween rural and urban living standards. It is likely that new programs in
land settlement, labor-intensive rural works, rural feeder roads, input supply
credit, improved marketing and storage, and other services for small-scale
producers will be introduced. The Government will probably devote more effort
to development of cooperatives, a program which has lagged badly in the past,
and may introduce collectivized cultivation in some areas. However, the speci-
fic measures which will be adopted to support future agricultural development
are still in the process of formulation.
Economic Policy Issues
8.        The most pressing economic problem now facing Ethiopia is a possible
decline in 1975 agricultural production. In the short run, the land reform
measures may result in some disruption in agricultural production because of
supply problems for credit, work animals, implements, fertilizer, seeds and
pesticides. These requirements are being met in some parts of the country
under the Minimum Package Program, supported by IDA Credit 416, and compre-
hensive agricultural development projects including the Wolamo Agriculture
Project (Credit 169) and Chilalo Agricultural Development Project, supported
by the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA). However, in large
parts of the country, these requirements have traditionally been met by land-
lords, and such arrangements have been disrupted. In response to this problem
the Government introduced, at short notice, an emergency tractor plowing and
seed distribution program which received Bank Group support. As a further
result of the land reform decree, Ethiopia also faces potential difficulties
in maintaining output from the former commercial farms. Any significant short-
fall in the output from these farms in the current year would be serious parti-
cularly if it were coupled with a decline in the marketed surplus from peasant
agriculture. The Government does have some flexibility with the former commer-
cial farms, however, since many that were producing export or non-food crops
have been converted temporarily to producing additional food for domestic con-
sumption. The magnitude of the potential production shortfall in the current
year is impossible to predict. However, any reduction would be magnified since
it follows two years of serious drought in 1972 and 1973 and only partial re-
covery in 1974, so that the overall food balance of the population is below
the average of earlier years.



9.        Secondly, the Government faces a major fiscal and public sector
financial problem in part deriving from the impact of its economic reform
measures on public sector revenues and expenditures and in part from the
increase in expenditures on defense. A major problem facing the Government
is the independence struggle in Eritrea. In early 1975, fighting broke out
between the armed forces and the Eritrean Liberation Front with most of the
fighting concentrated in and around the provincial capital of Asmara. Although
current indications are that the fighting has subsided, guerilla activity
continues in Eritrea and elsewhere, thus compelling the Government to divert
scarce resources to military expenditures.
10.       In each of FY73 and 74 a recurrent budget surplus of Eth$80-90
million was realized; in FY75 the recurrent budget was more or less in
balance, but for FY76 the recurrent budget estimates just published indicate
a deficit of Eth$46 million. With capital expenditure in FY76 estimated at
Eth$432 million, the overall budget deficit will be Eth$478 million and a
too rapid expansion of domestic borrowing could have serious inflationary
consequences. It is therefore imperative that every effort be made to
retain control over recurrent expenditure and at the same time increase
revenue resources.  During the last several months the Government has taken
a number of steps to raise revenues including increased taxes on alcohol,
alcohol products and tobacco products, a special drought-relief surtax
on income above Eth$250 per month, and an export surtax, as well as stricter
enforcement of collection of existing taxes. While these measures will have
positive overall effect on revenues, they do not appear to be based on any
comprehensive review of the fiscal situation; instead they have been somewhat
ad hoc and unsystematic in nature. If the Government is to improve the
effectiveness of the tax system in order to increase the share of the public
sector in the total income stream, to finance a substantially larger public
investment program with domestic resources, and to adapt its fiscal policy
to reducing income inequality and poverty, then a thorough-going reform-
oriented study of the entire fiscal system will be required.
11.       Another important source of resource mobilization in the public
sector is the parastatal enterprises. With the greatly expanded role of
Government in the economy, and the expanded Government investment effort
that will be called for in the future, it is vitally important that these
enterprises should not only pay their own way but also generate a surplus
for the public sector. Historically the aggregate savings rate in the
economy has only been about 11-12% of GDP,and with relatively modest inflows
of foreign private and public capital, this has permitted an investment rate
of only 12-14%. If the rate of growth is to be increased significantly,
investment must be raised. Since the Government has stressed increased
self-reliance, it follows that emphasis must be given to raising a higher
proportion of the required savings from within the country.    In the public
sector the prospects for greater savings and investment will depend on the
profitability of government enterprises and on the budgetary position of
the Central Government.



-5-
12.       Whether the external financial situation will become a major
constraint on development depends not only on the terms of trade which
confront the country and on capital inflows, but also on the willingness
of the Government to pursue an export-oriented development strategy. The
immediate situation is that a reversal of the favorable balance of payments
trend of recent years seems to be under way due to several factors. First,
the export commodity price boom of 1972-74 has come to an end; the index
of Ethiopia's export prices rose by 54% between the first quarter of 1972
and the first quarter of 1974, but by March 1975 it had dropped back to the
early 1972 level. Second, the supply of some exports has been reduced.
The new export surtax apparently had some disincentive effect on exports
of certain commodities. Coffee berry disease reduced coffee production
and exports in 1973/74 and 1974/75. The transfer of former commercial
farms, many of which were producing export crops, to state control and
the conversion of some to producing food for the domestic market will also
reduce export volumes. Imports, on the other hand, rose by 40% in nominal
terms in 1974 following three years of virtual stagnation, largely because
of price increases for petroleum and related products. A further increase
of this magnitude in 1975 is unlikely but some increase can be anticipated
in light of increased development expenditures, higher military purchases
and possible food shortages. When these factors are considered together,
the prospect is for a sharply reduced balance of payments surplus in 1975
and a small deficit in 1976. Our projections of export and import prices
indicate that the terms of trade index will decline only moderately over
the next five years, from a base of 100 in 1974 to 95 in 1980. This pro-
jection is a conservative one since it is based on the commodity mix of
exports in 1974. It therefore does not include such possibilities as the
expansion of sugar exports, a shift to higher valued exports such as washed
coffee, canned and frozen meat and meat products and canned vegetables and
fruits, or the introduction of new exports such as cotton. There are also
other export possibilities for Ethiopia beyond traditional primary products,
including textiles and leather products. It is not certain, however, that
the Government intends to follow an export-oriented development policy,
particularly for the agricultural sector. It may choose to adopt an inward-
looking agricultural policy and deliberately discourage agricultural exports,
although to do so could have serious effects on the balance of payments.
13.       Finally, it must be recognized that Ethiopia has faced, and still
faces, serious constraints in manpower, resources and institutions although
significant progress has been made in education, highways, power and telecom-
munications, and both intensive and extensive agricultural development pro-
grams have been launched successfully. A basis exists upon which the new
Government can build an accelerated development effort, with emphasis on the
rural areas. If such a program is undertaken, a substantially increased
volume of foreign assistance will be needed. Foreign loans and credits



- 6 -
accounted for 33% of public capital expenditures in FY69-74. However, annual
gross public capital inflows have been only about US$1.32 per capita over the
past five years. Unlike many other African countries which were formerly de-
pendent, Ethiopia has no traditional source of technical and financial assist-
ance. Thus it is largely dependent on international organizations, and the
Bank Group has been and is currently providing a relatively high level of
assistance. During 1971-73, on average, the IBRD contributed 17.5% and IDA,
20.0% of gross disbursements of public medium- and long-term loans. This
share is expected to increase substantially during the next few years as
amounts disbursed under recently committed IDA credits rise. As of 1974,
the IBRD share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed was 23.6% and
the share of IDA was 19.4%. As for public debt service, the IBRD's share
was 38.3% in that same year while IDA's share was 2.6%. IBRD's share of the
outstanding debt is expected to decline to 15% by 1980 but, because of the
relatively low levels of assistance expected from bilateral donors, IDA debt
outstanding as a percent of outstanding external public debt is expected to
rise to 35-45% by 1980 and debt service payments to the Bank Group will in-
crease to approximately 40% of total public debt service by 1980. Because
of Ethiopia's poverty, it is desirable that future inflows be provided to the
greatest extent possible on concessionary terms. Furthermore, it is appro-
priate that external donors should finance a large proportion of the costs
of projects, including local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
14.       Since 1950 Bank Group lending in Ethiopia has totalled US$369 million,
comprised of 21 IDA credits totalling US$260 million and 12 Bank loans totalling
US$109 million. The IFC has made five commitments in Ethiopia totalling US$15.7
million. One half of the amount of lending (US$177 million) was committed in the
last three years. In addition to the substantial increase in the size of its
operations in the last three years, the Bank Group has softened its terms to
Ethiopia;  since    FY73 our entire lending has been on IDA terms.
15.       Until the last 1960's we assisted the construction of trunk roads,
power and telecommunication facilities. In the late 1960's, our program shifted
in emphasis to agriculture and education, and in the past five years we have made
nine credits for agricultural development totalling US$96.2 million and three
credits for education totalling US$42.5 million. In addition, our last two road
credits (332-ET in 1972 and 552-ET in 1975) have placed emphasis on the construc-
tion of agricultural roads. This program reflects the increased opportunity for
agricultural lending brought about by improved sectoral knowledge, and the heavier
emphasis on agriculture and education in the Government's priorities. This shift
has been greatly assisted by the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA),
which has played a major role in project identification and preparation in the
agricultural sector.



-7-
16.       Using the rate of disbursements as a measure, the pace of implementa-
tion of Bank Group projects in Ethiopia is generally satisfactory. Imple-
mentation problems in the past were generally concerned with delays in effecti-
veness and in initiation of project works. Delays in effectiveness were
largely caused by delays in parliamentary ratification, while delays in imple-
mentation related to slowness in initiating and completing start-up activities,
such as appointments of consultants and project staff and the issuance of
invitations to bid. As a result of the recent political changes some delays
in construction works have been experienced as private contractors have
been unwilling to bid owing to uncertainties, fears concerning possible nationa-
lization and difficulty in obtaining finance from credit institutions. The
operation of one Bank financed project (Humera Cr.188-ET) has been adversely
affected due to interruption of movement of products from the project area
to market outlets in Eritrea. On the other hand the political changes have
resulted in much faster credit effectiveness and increased lending to small-
holders. Additionally, there are substantial cost overruns on two Bank Group-
financed projects -- (i) the Amibara Irrigation Project (Credit 418-ET), which
has had to be substantially redesigned and now awaits arrangements to be made
for US$17 million supplementary co-financing, and (ii) the Addis Ababa Water
and Sewerage Project (Loan 818-ET), which experienced financial problems
partially due to delays in the selection of the sewerage treatment plant site.
(A US$5.5 million African Development Fund loan presently under consideration
will hopefully alleviate the current financing gap.)   It also appears that
price escalations may necessitate cutbacks and restructuring of other projects.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments
as of Sept.30, 1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. In addi-
tion to its lending program the Bank is pursuing a number of activities to
support the Government's development efforts including a continuing, open and
frank dialogue on economic policy and the secondment of an advisor in project
identification and preparation to the Planning Commission.
17.       Because of the fundamental importance of agriculture we are, in
preparing projects, emphasizing support for implementing the reforms which
have been announced in the agricultural sector. Once the necessary measures
have been taken to ensure satisfactory progress in this field, we will give
increased attention to other sectors such as education where the Government
is planning major investments to make education more relevant to development
and more equitably available.
18.       In the next 18 months, we plan to present for your consideration
three agricultural projects, one of which will be a follow-up project, while
the other two will break new ground. Included in the first category will be
a second minimum package project and in the second category will be proposals
for a grain storage and marketing project and a coffee improvement project.
In view of our experience in the highway sector, and the institutional develop-
ment that has occurred in that sector, we hope to submit proposals for our first
highway sector credit in FY77. This will entail the Bank examing the proposed
expenditure program for all classes of roads to ensure that the program is
realistic in size (in terms of organizational, budgetary, manpower, and resource
requirements) and reasonable in balance (as between different classes of roads,
and between construction and maintenance expenditure). Before presenting each



of the above projects we shall take a careful look at the prospects for imple-
mentation and availability of local resources necessary for implementation.
PART III - LIVESTOCK IN ETHIOPIA
19.       Prior to the recent drought, Ethiopia's vast livestock resources were
the largest of any country in Africa and included an estimated 27 million cattle,
24 million sheep, 18 million goats, 7 million horses, mules and donkeys, and
1 million camels. The true dimensions of the losses attributable to the drought
are not yet certain, but it is estimated that about 15% of the national herd
was lost over a 3-year period in the rangelands areas. It is estimated that the
herds should regenerate themselves over a 3- to 4-year period. Given the large
domestic herds and the fact that over 50% of the country's land area is devoted
to livestock production, the subsector makes a disproportionately small contri-
bution to national production and to export earnings. In 1972, livestock pro-
ducts contributed about 29% of total agricultural olltput (beef - 10%, other
meat - 5%, milk - 8%, hides and skins - 1%, and others - 5%). It is estimated
that the total exports of livestock and livestock products through official
trade channels from Ethiopia was about US$11.6 mill:ion in 1972, an increase
of about 300% from 1968. In spite of this increase, however, the total quan-
tity and value of exports were relatively low in re:Lation to the existing
potential. The major constraints to increased output are endemic diseases
and an underdeveloped internal marketing system which depresses the prices
paid to the producer. In addition uncontrolled grazing and stock breeding
have denuded vast areas of rangeland. Another constraint is that cattle are
traditionally viewed as a source of prestige and a hedge against future un-
certainty rather than as a potential source of cash income; the nomadic owners
in particular are most reluctant to sell an animal tnless it is absolutely
necessary.
Rangelands Areas
20.       The Ethiopian rangelands cover some 500,000 km2, or about 42% of the
country's total land area. W4hile no accurate figures are available, it is
estimated that prior to the drought the rangelands areas contained a human
population of 2.5 million, 5.5 million cattle (21% of the country's total),
4.5 million sheep (18%), 2.5 million goats (15%), arid 1 million camels (10%).
In addition to providing subsistence for the largely nomadic population, the
rangelands provide the cultivated areas (highland) with livestock and livestock
products, and they are presently the only areas with a net surplus of cattle
for domestic consumption and export. The carrying capacity of the ranges
is severely limited by the lack of adequate water facilities and by inefficient
utilization of existing vegetation; consequently, the large increases in both
the human and livestock popul]ation over the past five decades have contributed
to a significant deterioration in the condition of the grazing areas. This
situation has been aggravatecl by the recent drought, and by the increasing
encroachment of settled farming in the most productive dry season pastures.
The land reform proclamation recently issued by the Government specifically
recognized the traditional ri-ghts of the nomadic pastoralists over the ranges.
The future of these areas in the long run will depend most directly on the
willingness of the livestock owners to limit the number of their animals and
to institute a voluntary and comprehensive system of range use controls.



-9-
21.       The ranges are informally divided into a number of grazing reserves,
each controlled by a particular tribe; tribal agreements regulate the seasonal
migrations of the nomadic livestock owners as they travel with their herds in
search of water and grazing. The incomes of these nomads are low as compared
with the national average. The annual per capita income in these areas is
probably about Eth$60 (US$29).
22.       The composition of the livestock herds in different range areas within
Ethiopia varies with the ecology of the region and the traditions of the nomadic
people living there. In the Southern Rangelands cattle comprise the greater
proportion of the nomadic herds, and they are valued highly for both milk and
meat production. Cows culled for age are sold for slaughter, and male cattle
are sold mainly to finance major purchases such as food and clothes. In Jijigga
where lower annual rainfall produces less favorable range conditions, cattle
(although important) are greatly outnumbered by sheep and goats. The latter
are kept in separate flocks looked after by the women; their milk comprises an
important part of the family diet, and a limited number are sold to satisfy
immediate cash needs.  Camels are mainly used for transport, but they are more
important in the drier areas of the lower Ogaden. In the northeast rangelands
area, which is characterized by extremely arid semi-desert condition, camels
are probably the most important type of livestock, as they are used for tran-
sport and traded for use in the Danakil salt trade; although larger in numbers,
sheep and goats are somewhat less important to the nomadic economy. Very few
cattle are found in the driest parts of the region.
Livestock Marketing
23.       The domestic market for livestock is, by and large, relatively simple.
LIvestock markets may be grouped into three categories:
(a) Primary markets, where stock enters the trade, and which are
attended by any number of small dealers;
(b) Secondary markets, located in cropping areas on the route
towards the final destination; and
(c) Terminal markets, located in the main consumption areas --
towns and cities, coffee-growing areas or industrial abattoirs.
24.       Animals are normally traded by direct bargaining.   In the smaller
markets the buyers, apart from a few local butchers, are usually small live-
stock traders sometimes purchasing on behalf of bigger traders and sometimes
purchasing with the sole objective of re-trading the stock in another market
further down the stockroute. In a few markets, auctioneers have established
themselves and operate on a tribal basis, but this method of selling is not
widely practiced. Direct bargaining is also the rule in the bigger markets or
near consumer centers where the buyers are predominantly butchers and butchers'
agents. Sales of slaughter stock to the meat factories are sometimes made
direct by the producer, but the more usual system is for the factory to support
a few major traders who themselves buy at the bigger markets and have arrange-
ments with smaller traders and agents at smaller markets. Municipalities



- 10 -
throughout the country charge a fee for the use of the "market," commonly
between Eth$2.00 and Eth$3.00 per head for cattle and camels and Eth$0.30-
Eth$0.40 for sheep and goats. The Livestock and Meat Board has arrangements
for improved fee collection in the newly developing markets now being con-
structed under the IDA-assisted Second Livestock Development Project (Cr.
(Cr. 365-ET) initiated in 1973. That project provides an integrated market
and stockroute system in three important livestock producing areas of the
country; it also includes provision for the construction of slaughter faci-
lities, cattle transport and technical and administrative assistance. In
the range areas the improved facilities are expected to lower marketing
costs, improve competition and ultimately result in higher prices for local
producers. Construction of project infrastructure is now beginning to get
under way (see para. 55). The proposed Rangelands Development Project would,
through the establishment of the ranches, the small-holder fattening programs
and feedlot, introduce new arid profitable market outlets for stockowners and
thus improve competition in the livestock market. A.s a result, the existing
network of markets and traders will be improved.
Government Livestock Services
25.       The Livestock and Meat Board (LMB) is the institution primarily
responsible for the development of the livestock industry. It was established
in 1964 as an independent body to coordinate policy matters relating to live-
stock, poultry, meat, eggs, and by-products including hides and skins. The
overall policy of LNB is determined by a Board of Directors chaired by the
Director of the Department of Animal Resources in the Ministry of Agriculture,
and the day-to-day operations are the responsibility of the General Manager.
LIB has mainly been concerned with the licensing of exports, general monitoring
and preparation of background studies for the livestock industry and develop-
ment of a feed mix plant and a poultry industry. In addition, it has had
primary responsibility for execution of the Second Livestock Project (see
Para. 55). Recently, LMB has been given a broad range of additional responsi-
bilities, including that of supervising 10 recently nationalized abattoirs.
In order to concentrate all livestock production activities within one agency
the Livestock Production Division of the Ministry of Agriculture has been
transferred to LMB's control. Government is presently considering a plan
for the reorganization of LMB which would consolidate the existing lines of
responsibility and thus would better enable it to carry out its designated
tasks.
26.       Overall responsibility for animal health services is vested in the
Department of Veterinary Services within the Ministry of Agriculture. The
veterinary staff now comprises 45 Ethiopian veterinarians, 40 expatriate
veterinarians supplied under technical assistance, 250 animal health assistants
and 700 trained vaccinators. These staff are, however, insufficient to give
satisfactory veterinary cover throughout the country, and consequently the
services supplied in many areas are at best rudimentary. The effectiveness
of the staff is further hampered by lack of sufficient vehicles, veterinary
supplies and other materials; another problem arises from the fact that a
disproportionate number of trained staff are presently located in Addis Ababa
and other urban centers.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
27.       A report entitled "Ethiopia - Appraisal of the Rangelands Development
Project" (No. 854-ET) is being circulated separately. A credit and project
summary is provided in Annex III. The project was appraised in the field in
January-February 1975. Negotiations for the proposed IDA credit were held in
Washington in October 1975. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Kebede
Temesgen, Head, Credit and Investment Department, Ministry of Finance.
Background
28.       The proposed project would be the third Bank Group lending tin the
livestock sector in Ethiopia. The first project, the Addis Ababa Dairy Project,
approved in 1971, aimed at expanding milk production in the Addis Ababa area,
and the Second Livestock Project, approved in 1973, was for livestock develop-
ment through integrated markets and stockroutes systems in three important
livestock producing areas (see para 55). The proposed project, which would
be the first large-scale range development project in Ethiopia, would make
use of the stockroutes and markets developed under the second project in the
Southern Rangelands and Jijigga areas.
Project Purpose
29.       The proposed project would, over a five-year period, provide for the
development and rehabilitation of three lowland range areas, i.e., the Southern
Rangelands, Jijigga and the Northeast Rangelands, inhabited mostly by pastora-
lists engaged in extensive livestock production. In the short term the project
would attempt to restructure the traditional system of extensive livestock pro-
duction, in which animals are held as a source of subsistence, prestige and as
a hedge against future uncertainty. Efficiency of the livestock industry would
be improved through an offtake program of animal selection for fattening on a
system of ranches, feedlots, smallholder and grazier fattening schemes which
would increase incomes for the producers. One of the primary goals would be
the eventual establishment of a comprehensive system of range use control under
which the pastoralists would be encouraged to adjust their overall stock numbers
to meet the carrying capacity of the ranges. Project services would be directed
to all types of livestock available in the project areas.
Project Description
30.       The project would consist of three separate sub-projects, each with
its own organization structure. These sub-projects -- the Southern Rangelands,
Jijigga and Northeast Rangelands Development Projects -- would each provide an
integrated program of range management and veterinary services along with im-
proved roads and water facilities.   They would help lay the foundation for a
sound future development of the livestock economy in the range areas. Speci-
fically, the project would provide for:



- 12 -
(a) the institution of land planning and range management programs
in conjunction with a program for the gradual control of live-
stock numbers;
(b) the establishment of a basic veterinary and livestock extension
service designed to reach the nomadic pastoralists;
(c) construction of water facilities including both permanent and
rainy season water ponds as well as a small number of boreholes
and concrete water tanks; a limited water spreading program
based on flash floods would be carried out in the Northeast
Rangelands area;
(d) construction of trade roads and administrative access tracks;
(e) the development of fattening ranches and a feedlot (Southern
Rangelands only) and smallholder fattening schemes;
(f) a program of trials and studies with emphasis on improved range
use and grazing control practices;
(g) training of Project staff, livestock owners and tribal leaders;
and
(h) provision of supplemental staff within LMB in order to improve
its overall efficiency and to enable it to provide technical
and administrative services to the three sub-project units.
Detailed Features
31.       Range Management.   A central element of the overall project strategy
would be the development of a comprehensive range management program for each
of the three sub-project areas. A range management department would be esta-
blished within each of the three sub-projects to formulate and coordinate
development in each area. It would be initially responsible for the develop-
ment of both an overall land use plan and a detailed range management plan
which would be introduced gradually and with the cooperation of the people
involved.
32.       The range management programs would pay particular attention to
control of livestock numbers, the limitation of burning and tree-cutting, and
the introduction of controlled grazing and closure of pastures including inte-
gration with the veterinary and the water development programs. In the Southern
Rangelands project area the program would center around the establishment of
four fattening ranches where improved range management techniques would be in-
troduced in relatively concentrated areas, so that they could be adopted for
extensive use by the nomads.
33.        In the Jijigga area, the predominant Somali pastoralists are rela-
tively sophisticated livestock herders who are able to exercise a high degree
of control over range use. Hence, the range management program would draw up



- 13 -
in the first year a land use plan and zone the land into areas suitable for
cultivation, rangeland, fodder reserves and for settlement. Dry season grazing
reserves would be established based on both existing and new permanent watering
points; these reserves would be selected by the groups themselves, and some
agreements between LMB and the groups have already been signed. As part of an
effort to involve the individual clans in range development, a system of range
associations of stockholders would be established, as would two pilot fodder
banks to serve as fodder reserve and test the efficacy of selected planting
materials.
34.       At present the Northeast Rangelands area offers a unique opportunity
to institute improved range management practices at a time when the immediate
control of numbers is not the most important consideration. With the large
reduction in total livestock numbers due to the recent drought, the ranges
are now able -- even with their greatly reduced carrying capacity -- to support
the existing herds without undue pressure. This situation will not prevail for
long, however, as it is estimated that within 10 years the herds will once again
have been built up to their former levels. Here the program strategy is to make
an inventory of each tribal grazing area to serve as a guide in the selection of
range reserves. At full development some 15 dry season grazing reserves total-
ling about 8,000 km2 would be established. All decisions with regard to the
opening and closing of these reserves would be made by tribal authorities in
cooperation with the Project Range Management Department. Eight fodder banks
averaging 10 ha. in size to be used as fodder reserves in time of drought would
also be established.
35.       Veterinary Services.   The primary objectives of the veterinary program
would therefore be to develop the interest and capability on the part of the
stockowners themselves to institute better disease controls adapted to their own
needs and traditions. A comprehensive and intensive project veterinary exten-
sion service would be established in each of the three sub-project areas. The
veterinary staff in each area would be headed by a senior veterinarian assisted
by a junior veterinarian (in two of the three areas), animal health assistants
(AHA's), vaccinators, and veterinary scouts. The veterinary scouts would be
chosen from among the pastoralists and would live and work with them, reporting
periodically to the field stations for instructions and supplies.
36.       Water Development.   Three types of water development would be provided
for under the project -- boreholes, permanent water ponds with a capacity of
20,000 m3 and rainy season surface catchment ponds with a capacity of about
6,000 m3. The boreholes would be provided on the ranches and on grazing areas
where surface water catchment is unsuitable due to high soil permeability. The
large water ponds would be important for opening up new areas for dry weather
grazing and smaller ponds to prolong the wet weather grazing for one or two
months into the dry season before the stock must more on. No specific water
development program would be undertaken by the project in the Northeast Range-
lands area, as in those areas where sufficient grazing is available, there are
enough wells and other water points available to meet current livestock needs.
The Government has agreed to designate each sub-project unit as the water devel-
opment authority for the purpose of coordinating all water development in their
respective areas (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
37.       Irrigation/Water Spreading.   Water spreading for simple irrigation
would be carried out within the Northeast Rangelands Project area on the basis
of experience gained from similar activities supported under the IDA Drought
Areas Rehabilitation Project. The program would involve the diversion of
flood water under gravity to bunded plots of land; the irrigated sites would
range from 5 to 500 hectares in size and would average about 100 hectares. It
is expected that up to 2,000) Afar farmers would be allocated individual one-
hectare plots by the end of the five-year project period. The main crops pro-
duced would be cotton, maize, sorghum and groundnuts. Livestock would be
fattened on vegetation watered by surplus water from the irrigated sites. In
addition to the water spreading program, provision would also be made for
general hydrological studies and for two feasibility studies; the latter would
include an investigation of the possibilities of irrigated crop development in
the Teiru Depression.
38.       Roads.  The existing road network in the rangelands is insufficient
to meet both the specific needs of the project and to sustain the long-term
development of the area. Two immediate requirements are apparent:
(a) the creation of trade roads to open up the area for adminis-
trative and trade purposes; and
(b) the establishement of dry season feeder tracks to allow access
for veterinary, extension and other Project staff and to facd-
litate communications on the ranges.
The estimated road program for the three sub-project areas is summarized as
follows:
Trade Roads     Feeder Tracks
- - - - - -(km)- - - - - - -
Southern Rangelands                     540              460
Jijigga                                 765              740
Northeast Rangelands                  __165              380
1,470)           1,580
In addition to the above construction and/or improvement program, which would be
built by labor-intensive methods, provision would also be made under the North-
east Rangelands Project for a limited amount of transceiver radios to compensate
for the particularly poor communications facilities in that area.
39.       Ranches.   Under the project provision would be made for the establish-
ment of up to four 25,000 hectares fattening ranches in the central part of the
Southern Rangelands area. By offering an even flow of animals both for possible
fattening by the feedlot and by smallholders in the Awassa area, and for sale on
local markets, they would be able to offer higher prices to local livestock
owners. These higher prices and the active involvement of the stockowners in
the ranching operation would provide a strong incentive to increase the present
low offtake from the ranges, and would also result in a significant increase in
the cash incomes of one of the poorest segments of the Ethiopian population.



- 15 -
40.       A feedlot unit would be established to provide an intensive feeding
regime at the Awassa Agro-Industrial Share Company (AAISC) farm in the Southern
Rangelands area, which would provide a regular supply of high value meat for
both export and local markets. This would in turn result in higher prices
through the establishment of new outlet for quality meat. These higher prices
would eventually accrue to the cattle owners, as up to 75% of the profits of
the feedlot would be returned to the producers in the form of improved prices
or as bonuses on cattle already sold.
41.       Smallholder fattening programs would be undertaken in each of the
three sub-project areas whereby livestock would be sold on credit to smallholders
(after a small down payment) for fattening on crop residues and other fodder.
Each program would be tailored to meet the specific conditions in that area.
In the Northeast Rangelands area, credit would be provided to families now
without any stock for purchase of animals for fattening on the ranges. A live-
stock marketing program would also be introduced to stimulate the volume of
marketed offtake and to reduce the irregularity of supply that is presently a
major constraint to the proper functioning of existing markets. Eight markets
recently closed by tribal hostilities would be reopened and provided with peri-
meter fencing; a Project Marketing Unit (PMU) would be responsible for the
initial functioning of these markets.
42.       Trials and Studies.   The project would include provision for a number
of technical and socio-economic trials and studies both in order to provide
immediate answers to technical problems and to assess the results achieved by
the various project components so that these experiences can prove a guide to
the development of similar projects either in Ethiopia or elsewhere in East
Africa. Areas of investigation would include: improved range management tech-
niques, the integration of arable farming with livestock production, use of
enclosures, development of fodder banks, and range ecology. Socio-economic
studies to estimate herd numbers and composition, offtake, migration patterns
of nomadic livestock owners, and changing tribal structures and traditions
would continue. Project evaluation would be carried out by special units with-
in each of the three sub-project units.
43.       Training.  A program would be set up in each of the project areas to
train both local project staff and to educate and integrate the various tribal
groups in the development process. For this purpose, training centers would
be established in each area under a project training officer, and provision
would be made for a mobile training center. All senior project staff would
be sent for short courses in their various fields, and a limited number of
fellowships (both in East Africa and abroad) would be made available. Tribal
elders would be brought to the training centers to familiarize them with the
objectives of the project. Younger tribal members would be given 2-month
courses to prepare them as veterinary scouts to serve as the first link of
communication between the project and pastoralists. These veterinary scouts
would be expected to disseminate project information, advise and assist tribal
members in livestock vaccination, and serve as an example in implementing im-
proved range management and grazing practices. They would periodically attend
refresher courses at the project training centers. The training units would



- 16 -
prepare programs for, among others, the regular broadcasting station at Harar
and for a new station to be established at Alemaya under the IDA-assisted
Fourth Education Project.
Project Execution
44.       Overall direction of the project would be carried out by the Livestock
and Meat Board, which would also have ultimate responsibility for project imple-
mentation.  The LMB is executing the IDA-assisted Second Livestock Project and
in spite of personnel and organizational problems, has developed into a sound
organization. Each of the three sub-projects would have a separate organiza-
tional unit based at a headquarter within the individual project areas. These
units -- the Southern Rangelands Development Unit (SORDU), the Jijigga Range-
lands Development Unit (JIRDU), and the Northeast Rangelands Development Unit
(NERDU) -- would each be under the direction of a project manager directly
responsible to the head of LMB's Rangelands Development Departm.nt.    Additional
staff would include heads of the Finance and Administration, Range Management,
Veterinary Services and the Technical Service Division, a chief accountant,
a procurement officer and other supporting personneL. Provision would also
be included for housing, vehicles and equipment. Each sub-project would have
its own bank account, and would oversee its own accounting, disbursement,
procurement and personnel activities; where necessary these services would
be supplemented by a number of central services to be provided by LMB. LMB
has agreed to establish separate accounts for each of the sub-project units
and to make quarterly deposits in these accounts of adequate funds to cover
estimated project expenditures for the ensuing quarter. The initial deposit
of funds adequate for the first quarter of the project implementation period
starting January 1, 1976 would be a condition of efifectiveness of the credit
(Section 5.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02(b)
of the draft Project Agreement). A condition of disbursement for any of the
three sub-projects taken individually would be that the Project Manager, the
Senior Range Management Officer, the Senior Financial Officer, and the Senior
Veterinarian have been recruited with qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 4(ii) of Schedule 1 to
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       Additional staff would be provided under the project to help enable
the Livestock and Meat Board to successfully undertake overall responsibility
for the implementation of this project. First, a rangelands development depart-
ment would be established within LMB to coordinate the activities of all three
sub-projects, and to provide administrative and technical assistance to them.
Staff provided for this department would include:   an internationally recrlited
department head, a range management officer, a personnel officer, a water engi-
neer, a sociologist and a mass media and training specialist.    IMB has agreed
to recruit two experts internationally for the posts; of technical managers,
one each for project management and veterinary services in the Rangelands
Development Department to assist the department head (who will also be the
Project Director) in effectively supervising the sub-project units and pro-
viding any technical and managerial back-up that the units might require.
Secondly, LMB would also provide certain other financial and procurement ser-
vices to the three range projects; in order to supply this capability and to



- 17 -
improve the overall efficiency of LMB, supplemental staff would be provided
within the Finance Department. These staff would include an internationally
recruited financial controller, an internal auditor, two accountants, as well
as a senior procurement officer and one junior procurement officer. A limited
amount of supporting staff and some equipment and vehicles would also be pro-
vided. Funds would also be provided for the construction of a second veteri-
nary laboratorv building at Debre Zeit in oratr to allow this facility to
expand its prceuction of vaccines as well as its diagnostic services. Finally,
provision woul;! be made for funds to support the continued preparation of future
project within the livestock sector by LNB.
46.       The Government has agreea that the Ministry of Public Works would
delegate authority to LMB to approve plans and provide for the construction of
structures up to a limit of Eth$20,000 per unit and would make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association to reduce delays on the approval of plans and
execution of woi'-s F-- all other project construction (Section 3.03 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       In early 1975 the Government had introduced export duties on meat
and live animals at a level which could adversely affect prices to producers
and hinder project execution. These duties have now been withdrawn. With
regard to price control imposed by the Government on meat and live animals,
current levels are reasonable. The Government has agreed that in taking any
measures or adopting any regulations concerning production and marketing of
livestock, it shall pay due consideration to the need to continue to increase
pro@luc:ion and stimulate the sale of livestock (Sectioni ).04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
48.       Total project cost including taxes and duties (about $0.3 million)
is estimated at US$42.9 million of which US$14.0 million or about 33% would
represent foreign exchange requirements. A summary of the cost estimates is
contained in Annex IEL. Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing at the
time of appraisal plus estimated price escalation to December 1975. In addition,
a physical contingency of 10% and a cumulative price contingency of 10% per
annum have been included in all project costs. Since about 70% of the goods
and services to be procured under the project will be domestically produced,
the expected inflation rate for Ethiopia has been used to estimate the price
contingencies. Total (physical plus price) contingencies represent 46.6% of
the total base cost of this project and are considered to be adequate.
49.        The finance of project costs would be the share in the following amount
and proportions:
US$ million        _
IDA                    27.0            63
ADF                     5.5            13
Government             10.5            24
43.0           100



- 18 -
The proposed IDA credit would be on standard terms to Government. This would
cover about US$11.1 million of the total foreign exc:hange costs (US$14.0
million) and about 54% of local costs, or about 63% of total project costs.
The proposed African Development Fund (ADF) contribution would total 5.0 millico
African Development Bank Units of Account (about US$5.5 million);   this would
finance the remaining US$2.9 million of the project's foreign exchange costs
and US$2.6 million of local cost. ADF financing would be concentrated on the
Southern Rangelands and would finance up to 76% of the costs of the ranches,
the feedlot, the smallholder fattening program and specified roads. Together
the ADF and the IDA contributions would finance 76% of total project costs.
The remaining 24% would be contributed by the Government; this would be offset
to the extent that project costs include about US$0.3 million in taxes and duties.
The ADF, IDA and Government contributions would be channeled by the Govermnent
directly to LMB as grant.
Procurement
50.      Procurement of vehicles and road construction equipment would be sub-
ject to international competitive bidding according to IDA guidelines; orders
would be bulked whenever possible and placed through LMB's Procurement Division
acting as the agent for all three sub-projects. In Drder to facilitate the early
operations of the project, provision would be made for the purchase of up to 15
vehicles through normal commercial channels in accordance with the Governmei.t's
usual procurement procedures which are satisfactory to the Association. The
buildings and structures to be constructed under the project would be required
at scattered locations over the three range areas and would be procured through
force account or local contractors. Various items of veterinary equipment,
medicines, chemicals and fertilizer would also be required in small amounts at
scattered locations and at varying times throughout the project period. There-
fore, as they w)uld not be suitable for either international or local competitive
bidding, procurement of these items would be through normal commercial channels
in accordance with the Government's usual procedures.
Disbursement
51.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over five years after
credit effectiveness on the basis of:
(a)  100% of the foreign or 76% of the totaLl costs of vehicles
and technical assistance; and
(b)  76% of the costs of all other items financed by IDA.
Disbursements against (a) would be fully documented. Disbursements against (b)
would be made against statements of expenditure certified by the Project Manager;
these would be kept by LMB and made available to IDA for inspection. ADF paral-
lel financing of the Southern Rangelands ranches, feedlot, smallholder fattening



- 19 -
and road construction components would be subject to similar arrangements.
The IDA credit would provide up to US$500,000 in retroactive financing
to cover project expenditures for salaries and other administrative costs
and for vehicles, equipment and furniture incurred from July 1, 1975 to the
date of the Credit Agreement (paragraph 4(i) of Schedule 1 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Economic Benefits and Justification
52.       The project would provide basic infrastructure such as roads and
,water fr-lVtiqe '- -Tell as veterinary and extension services in areas which
had previously received little, if any, direct Government assistance. Through
the restructuring of the traditional system of extensive livestock production,
the project would increase the presently low marketed offtake from the ranges
and would raise the value of marketed livestock production; this would result
in increased cash incomes for the producers, thereby integrating them more
fully into the market economy. Finally, the improved animal husbandry prac-
tices and fattening components would increase exports of live animals and
would provide an even flow of quality meat both for export and for sale on
local markets. The overall economic rate of return for the project over
20 years is estimated at 24%. Even under very unfavorable circumstances --
25% increase in cost and 25% reduction in benefits -- the economic rate of
return of the project would not fall under 12%.
53.       The main quantifiable benefits stemming from the project would be
a substantialincrease in marketed livestock and crop production; at full
development (Year 7), the value of this incremental production is estimated
at US$11.2 million annually. Foreign exchange earnings would be increased
by higher exports of live animals, as well as opening new markets for the
export of chilled and frozen meat. In addition, it will increase family
income of pastoralists by about 40%. The project would also have a number
of additional benefits which are more difficult to quantify. These would
include: (a) better nutrition for about 100,000 pastoral families through
increased milk production; (b) more sanitary and more accessible water supplies
for about the same number of pastoral families; (c) greater safeguard against
future droughts, thus reducing the extent of both human and livestock deaths
as well as the required level of Government expenditures for future relief
programs; and (d) rationalization and modernization of the traditional live-
stock sector to safeguard the potential for livestock production of Ethiopia's
rangelands, thus laying the basis for further development of the livestock
industry.
Risks
54.       The major risks facing the project would be the ability of LMB to
simultaneously manage, staff and implement three large sub-projects (in addition
to the ongoing second livestock project), and the willingness of the pastoralists
to accept changes in traditional livestock management practices and to insti-
tute grazing and water controls. Regarding the size and the scope of the project
in the context of LMB's capabilities, one solution would have been to curtail



- 20 -
individual components or postpone one of the three sub-projects; another
solution might have been to reduce the area covered by the project. Both of
these alternatives would, however, be self-defeating. The scope of the
individual components was greatly reduced and the project simplified in the
course of appraisal, and as many activities are interdependent, any further
reductions would endanger the effectiveness of the entire effort. It was
alse felt that the activities in each area should be initiated at basically
the same time, for unless these developments were undertaken more or less
simultaneously and were each of sufficient size, there was a real danger
that in times of stress the pastoralists would inundate those areas which
offered improved water, veterinary and other services.
55.       With regard to prospects for timely project execution by LMB, it
is recognized that the implementation of the second livestock project (which
incidentally is the first development project to be undertaken by LMB) is
about a year behind schedule. This is mainly because of start-up delays,
delays in approval of plans and specifications by the Ministry of Public
Works and Housing and slow execution of works by contractors who had
difficulties in obtaining advance of funds from the banks. The second live-
stock project which included stockroutes and construction of markets and
slaughter houses in widely dispersed locations over almost the whole country,
all planned and supervised from LMB headquarters in Addis Ababa, is also
facing the problem of cost overrun.   The Government and the LMB are taking
measures to expedite implementation of the second ]Livestock project and
recently improvements in the capacity and confidence of IM to confront the
problems and to make suitable restructuring and rephasing of works in light
of the estimated cost overrun have been evident. In the proposed project,
LMB's capability would be adequately strengthened through the provision of
key supporting staff and the proposed reorganization of lMB sho'ild enhance
its operative efficiency. The delegation of powers from the Ministry of
Public Works and Housing to LMB regarding approval of plans and execution
of works which the Government has agreed to would reduce implementation
delays. Moreover, three separate sub-project units would be established
located within the sub-project areas, and these units would be self-contained
with separate staff and accounts, and procurement and disbursement arrange-
ments. Management and technical back-up by LMB healdquarters and provision
of a number of central services by LMB headquarters along with the de-
centralized set-up of sub-project entities should lead to efficient and
timely execution of the project.
56.       The project would involve a further risk in that it would require
a conservative pastoral people to institute substantial changes in their
traditional practices. In fact, without these changes, the rangelands would
continue to deteriorate as a result of overgrazing and other poor livestock
management practices. Considerable efforts would be made to involve the
tribal authorities in the development effort, and the ability of the project
management to ensure their active cooperation would be of prime importance
to the success of the project. Overall, the risks associated with the pro-
ject are relatively large, but in the long term they are substantially
outweighed by the significant benefits to be achieved.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Livestock and Meat Board, the recommendation of the Committee provided for
under Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text
of a draft resolution approving the proposed development credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement follows the normal pattern
of agreements for agricultural livestock projects, taking into account the
particular features of the project as described in earlier paragraphs of
this report.   Special conditions for the effectiveness of the Development Cre-
dit Agreement are that the Project Financing Agreement between Ethiopia and LMB
has been signed, and deposits of funds adequate to cover the expenditures for the
first quarter of the project implementation period starting January 1, 1976
have been made in each of the sub-project accounts.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
December 11, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 1
OOUNTRY DATA-ETHIOPlA
AREA                                              POPULATION                                DENSITY
1,221,5,COk,m2                                    25.9    cilli.. (nid-1972)
..  P., kn.f Qr.bl. lanld
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Reference Countries
1960         1970           S!orali      WE          I>
ONP PER CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS) /                              180 80                        o0          120 /4       170 S
DEMOGRAPIIC
Crude bieth rate (par thousand)                                             L6 /an.e        56 /b.a-     L9 /8        6 /b ae
Crude death rate (per thousand)                              ..             25 /aa.aj       2L /b.aa     18           18 /b a
Inrant sortality rate (per thousand live births)              85 /c.       ..              ..                         55
Life expeotan.y at birth (years)                             ..             39 /             0O          L8           4 59
Gross reproduction rate /                                    ..            2.9  b          3.0 /bas,    3.L &        3.5  b
Population grovth rate S                                     1.6           2.2 /h          2.5 /a       2.8 /nb      3.2 /8h
Population grooth rate - urban                                 5S/           5             ..             5            7 /hj
Age structure (percent)
O-l                                                       Li /5 Zt.j                    L6           L5 hS   L8    8k
15-6L                                                       5L/e          51 /e.il        52 /e
65 and over                                                  5/e           L   ,           23                
ABg dependency ratio /L                                      0.9 7c        1.0             0.97         0.9           .1
E-oon-ic dependen.y rTio /L                                  1.0 70        1.2             1.2          1.7          1.L
Urban population as percent of total                           6 I          1' /   kob     .             13 Zz        10 /ik
Fa=ily planning: N. of occeptors cuaolative (thoos.)
No. of -eern (S of married -o.sn)
EMPLOYHENT
Total labor forco (thousand,)                              9,700 t      11,300 /         1,100        7,100 t      5,100l/
Percentage employad in agriculture                          88 /e         85              80 /n        80 /e        90kp
Percentage unemployod                                      ..            ..               20 
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percent of national inco=o received by highest 5%                           ..                          .            .
Percent of national inc.e roe-ivod by highest 20%           *.            ..
Percent of national income received by lowest 20%            ..            ..
Percent of national income received by lowst 50%            ..            ..
DISTHIBUTION OF LAND OWIERSHIP
A owned by top lOS of owners                                 ..            ..
% Owned by unalleat 10% of owners                            ..            ..              .
HEALTH AND NUTHITION
Population per physician                                     *-          2 l,O /        21,11o       166(          6,550 / i
Population per nursing person                                ..         1,600 c          3,690        1 9:0 '      2,700  ,
Population per hospital bed                                3,000 /v.u    3,030             570        l     OLO      010
Per capita calorie supply us % of reqoir-ment, /S             88            92              77           91          101
Per capita protein supply, total (graa  per dayS/6            66            69              57           63           71
Of ahioh, animal and pulse                                  25 /y         25              27 /E        24 /z        29
Death rate 1-L years /7                                      ..            ..              ..           ..             2 K:
EDUCATION
AdJusted /A primary school enrollment ratio                    8            16 /k           10           25 k 
Adjuated LU secondary school enrnlLent ratio                   1             4  k            L9k                       9 
Years of schooling provided, first and second level           12            12              12           12           13
Vocational enrollent as S of sec. school enrollaent           20             5               5 /ob        1 a          2
Adult literacy rate %                                        *.              7 /             5 7ac.e     19 ad        30 /
HOUSIN3
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                      2.7 /v2ae     ..              ..           7.5 /a
Percent of occupied unite without piped water                 26 4 ae.ai   ..              ..            36 ,tz
Access to alectricity (cc % of total population)              Sb       a a  .              ..            26 ..
Percent of -ural population connected to electricity
CONSUMPTION
Nadio r-eivers per 1000 population                           L48k           , /a           20 /a        80/a          8
Passenger care per 1000 population                             1             1               22
Elentric pover consumption (kwh p..)                           6             3              1            1            78
Nevsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                       .O. 0. /a                    0.07 /        0.1 /o       0.5 /
Notea: Figures refer either to the latest periods or to           account of anviro-nontulteeperaturs, body weights, ond
the letest years. Latent periods refer in principle to            distribution by age ad cex of national populations.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin-       A   Prits i  standarde (requirmenta) for all noa.trien as estab-
ciplis to 1960 and 1970.                                          lihahd by USDA Econoelc R.asaanh Servics proside fnr a minieum
/1 The Per Capita GNP estimste is at umrknt prics for            allosaace of 60 grams of total protein per day, and 20 graea of
yearn other than 1960,calculated by the name convernion       anilal and puloe proteto, of vhich 10 grams should be animal
technique as the 1972 World  anBk Atlos.                      protein. These tandardads a- omewhat lover than thee. of 75
12  Average number of daughters per susan of reproductivn         grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
age.                                                          average for the eorld, propsped by PAO in the Third World Fond
'a  Population grcnth rates are for the decades ending in         Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                            /7  Some etudies have . uggested that crude death rates of rhildren
/4  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to popula-       ages 1 through 4 say be used as a firet approximation index of
tin of ages 15-64 for age dependenocy ratio and to labor      malnutrition.
force of ages 15-65 for economic dependency ratio.        /8  Peroentage enrolled of correspondirg population of school age
/5  FAO reference standards represant physiological  -            as defined for eadch ontry.
quirements for norel activity and health, taking
/n   197?;   /b  1965-70;   /c  1963;   /d  Estimate based on firat round of the National Suample Survey;  /e  Estimate;
7?   Urban population defined AS Addis Ababa, Asmara, towns and market centers;   /e  Sixty-eight towns;   7; 1962-69;
/i   2,000 or ears inhabitants;  /&   1971;   a   1969;   A8  15-59 years;   /8  60 years and ovr;    /n  Ratio of population
under 15 and 60 end over to those in age 15-59;   /o  Population under 15 end 60 and ovcr;   /p  Labor force in age
bracket 15-59;  ZL   1968,  /8   Urban only;   /a Number on the register, not ell working in the qountry; /t Inside
or outside;   /. Including teacher trinaing at the third level;    /v  1961;   /w lncluding maternity hospital beds;
/x   Governmecnt only;  /y  1961-63;   /z  1964-66;      , U.N. entirate;   lab  Public education only, excludes private
vocetional schools;  l!M   Over 15 years;    ad  Definition unk-non;   /8j Addi Ababa only;    /af  Percentage of
dvellings with electrical lighting;    aE  1959;    ah  1960-72;   /hi  lnside only;   Lj   1969-70.  ,/bl  17n -.
K eKnya han been selected as en objective country because it is a neighboring developing country somewhat further up
the lnco.e scale than Ethiopia with slder ecological conditions.
RS July 29, 19,'5



ANNEXI
ETHIOPlA
ECONOMIC DEVId3P9ENT DATA                                                 Pg 
(Amounts In millions of U.S. Tdolars
Actual                         Projected              1968-   19)71 -   197 5 -   1971 
1968      197        94         195       1/        980      19)75    1976      1980      1980     L9.La    1971     1980
NATI ORAL, ACCGITNT13
IN CONSTANT. 1973 Prices     F. Ehan      Rts      Average Annual Growthi Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product            205275    2331.6    2465.:-     2525.4    2633.713229               Y0      1.1    5.0     3./      IJU-l   SOLO 5U01.UT-3
Gains f'rom Terms of Trade (,)     -_6.7    - 45.0    - 31.9      - 46.6    - 34.5   - 41.9            .       .       .              - 0.3    - 2.0    - 1.3
Gross Domestic Income             2045.8    2286.6    24733.3i    247W72    2U.     31l7T6           2.8     2.6    5.1     3.8      10=f7~   id-Tr    Mum
Rmport (cine. NFl)            1/   266.3     287.0     257.0       263.6     279.2    371.3          -0,2    -0.5    7.0     2.9       12.9     12.3     11.5
Exports        (import capacity) -229.0     -281.5    -266.9      -247.5    -264.3   -306.9           1.2     1.2    4.4     1.0       11.2     12.3       9.6
Resource Gap                      - 37.3    -  5.5       9.9      - 16.1    -        -7.                                                x-r    -wT        2Th
Consumption Expenditures          1812.9    2087.1    2183.5      2244.9    2334.0   2723.1           3.1     2.2    4.0     3.0       88.6     91.3     85.4
Investment    "(incl. stocks)      281.3     286.2     240.1'      250.0     280.0    528.9          -1.7    -0.5   16.2     7.1       13.7     12.5     16.6
Domestic Savings                   244.0     280.7     249.9       233.9     265.1    464.5          -0.6    -1.0   14.7     5.8       11.9     12.3     14.6
National Savings                   228.4     232.5     281.9       263.0     271.1    473.6           2.1     3.1   12.5     8.2       11.2     10.2      14.9
M.ERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
1969     1970      TT          1972      19/3     1974                                            196,9    19/1      T974
TReports
Capital goods                     51.7      56.9      64.0        72.7      65.3     47.7                                            33.3     34.1      16.3
Intermediate goods (goiLfuels)    33.5      39.5      43.-4       39.6      56.6     7 7 .2                                          21.6     23.1     26.3
Fuiels and related materials
of which:   Petroleum           11.0      13.4      17.4Z       1.3.8     21.6     57.6                                             0.7      9.2     19.6
Cosmton good    & misc.       58.8      61.8      62.7        61.1      74.1   110.8                                             37.9    33.4      37.8
To-tal March  Lorts (cif)         155.3     171.6    187.5       187.2     217.6    293.3                                           100.0    100.0     100.0
Exports
Primar,y products (pmlc. fuels)   107.6    108.5     113.5,      152.4     219.3    230.8                                            90.3     89.5      83.7
F'uels and related materials
of which:   Petroleum            1.1       1.4       1.7         1.6       2.2      7.4                                             0.9      1.3       2.7
Manrufactured goods   (other Exps)lO.5       12.4      11.6        13.8     23.1     37.6                                             8.8      9.1      13.6
Total Merch. Exports (fob>-       119.2     122.3    12.           6.       4.       75.8                                           100.0--  100.0     i970-To
Tourism and Rorder, Trace          -.         ..       .
1973   =100
Merchandise Trade indices            1968      1971      1974        1975      1977    1980      1968-75    1975-80    1971-80
Export Price Index                70.0      77.4     1 27. 9     132.9     166.2    200.1        9.6      8.5         11.2
Import Price Index                93.8     100.2     143.2       157.9     184.9    227.4        7 .7     7.6          9.3
Terms of Trade index              74.6      77.2      89.3        84.2      90.0     88.0        1.7      0.9          1.4
Exports Volume Index              84.7      80.8      85.9S       84.6      89.3    100.3        0.0      3.5          2.2
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR               Annual Data at 1960- 61_Ethi,o pian $            -   __         Aeae      nulGrwhRts                As Percent of Total
1963/64   1965/66   1967/68    1969/70    1971/72                 L983/64   -  1971/72            1963/64   1967/68  1971/72
Agriculture                     1608.9    1684.4    1754.2      1833.3    1936.1                            1.9                      60.7     548       51.5
Industry and Mining              358.9     438.8     500.9       541.1     621.0                            5.6                      13.5        7      16.5
Service                          684.5    .jLU. 7   .544. 9     1021. 1   120i~.l   -                       5.8.
TotalI                          2652.3    2955.9    3200.0      3445.5    3761.9                            3.5                     100.0    100.0     100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                      Annual Data in Current Ethiopian $AsPretoGD
(Central Government)                 1968/69  1969/70   1970/71    19 71/ 7 2 1972/73 1973/74         1968/69   -   1973/74           1968/69   1971/72   1973/74
Current Receipts  ~~~~~~~~~  mur  16W2F  s~~~~~~~cr-  3.3rr- umTr~~~~~~~~  0.2                      9.6     10.3      12.2 0.3 12.
Curre,nt_Epniuc                  362,0     384.0     405.5       434.4     476.7   528.5                    7.8                       8.7      9.0      10.4
Other Puablic Sector                -         -         -           -         -        - 
Public Sector Investment          64.7      92.0     111.5       125.9     129.9                                                       .      26
Revised                                                   US $ million
CURRENT EXPFNDITIJRE DETAILS                            Actual                    Esti-ata      DETAI'L ON1                             At end 19 69 Pasnd ES
(As % Total Current Expend.)               1970/71 1971~/7 2  1972/73   19~73,7  T7Z77        PUBLIC SECTOR                       Firs t Pla      %o   To tal-
Education                                    19.0     19.7      20.4      20.4    19.6       INVESTMENT PRCOGRA7I                  (1$ 68 /69 - 19 72 /7j
Other Social Services                         7.2      7.0       7.6       7.4     9.1       Sccial Sectors                           46.6         22.3
Agriculture                                   2.8      2.9       2.9       2.8     3.2       Agricultire                              25.3         12.1
Other Economic Services                       8.8      8.1       8.8      10.9    12.0       Industry and Mining                      24.5         11.7
Administrationi and Defence                  53.6     53.0      50.6     49.0     46,0       Power 
Other                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~Tr-ansport and communications  83.5  39.9
TotalCrretEpniue                              8.6      9.2       9.7       9.5    10.1       Other                                    29.2         14.0
Tota-1Curret Expnditurs  i-o-o  TO-0   YO-.-O    TO-0     T 'o.       Total Expenditsres                     209.2        100.0
SELECTED INDICATOR7I                                 1960-      1965-     1970-    19731-      FINANCING
(Calculated fromp 5-year averaged data)              1965       1970      1975    1976              ,,ic-trSang738                                   42
Average ICOR                                          2.30      31.22     2.94    2.88               blic     ai ectornSavings          73.          42.
import Elasticity                                    2.61       0.31      1.05    1.00             Foroigrn aidjecouterArt            -0.              -7
I mgial Domestic Savings Rate                        0.07       0.20      0.13    0.08             Toa      Fnncn                     150            0.
Marginal National Savings Rate                       0.08       0.18      0.15    0.09ToaPiacn
LAD0R FORCE AID                                   Total Lator Forc,                                  Value Added Per Worker (19      -      Prices &   c. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                   is Millionss           cf0 Tt al         19    -            Is U.S.Dollaxrs     Percent of Average          19 
19          19       19         19       U;rowth Rate         19         19          19         19         Grow-th Rate
Agriculture-
Industry..                                    .
Service                           -           -        -          ---                                     -              -       -
Total
no t applicable        -osorngibl
not available         --less than half theFAD
smletunit shown                                                                                          RADecme      ,17
I/  Experts adjusted for Terms of Trade                                                                                                     embr1,         97



ANNEX t
ETHLOPIA
AANCE OF PM201S, E7.TINAL ASSITANES AND DE8BT
meoacnte in sullice of U.2. dolars at current prices)
Actual                       EatFsated                      6rojeted                                               04-t4 1at.
Un    1971        192        19~73         1974         2279       L9 76       1977        19 78       1979        19-80      i9708v19A0
SUMM?ARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Eperte (iCcl. NFS)                   180.3       191.3       247.5       347.7        382.1        390.8      453.5       516.3       581.8       637.8      697.9          14.5
ImPArt. (icl. MIS)                  212.2        232.1       235.0       278.7        368.0        416.2      479.0       553.3       647.3       740.5      844.4          14.8
ORaoirceBEalacce (I-M)                -31.9       -4T0T        12.5        U8 74W.                  -25.4      -25.5       -irurr --5.                       -rCWr          -16.5
Icterest (cuet)                       - 1.5       - 4.5       - 6.1       - 2.9          9.5          16.6      16.8        16.9        17.2        17.8       17.9          29.2
Direct I7esrtcent I-.ee               _ 5.4       - 7.2       -13.1       -17.2        -20.6         -20.8     -18.0       -15.0       -12.0       -10.0     - 10.0         - 6.4
Workcer  Remittane                       -
Current Transfers (nst)                 8.0         9.0        17.6        28.4         52.1         43.4       10.0        18.8        10.0        10.0       10.0           2.3
PalaecrccCcrpeilfFccounte            -30.8        -43.5        11.0        77.3        -S3.8                   -16.3        -rT        350.       -59        -128.5         -i5.4
Private Direct In-eatrout               3.8          5.7        9.7        31.4         29.1          12.1       5.0         5.0         5.0         5.0         9.8          2.8
Official Capital rct                                              -          -            -3ra
Pubile HM&T Leans
ninb-rseaectc                        22.1        41.1        33.2        37.5         36.0          93.4      83.9        89.9        91.8       102.1       114.8         17.9
-iRpoyracic                          -15.4        -14.7      -13.6       -14.2        -13.9        -14.2      -15.8       -17.7       -16.3       -16.5      - 15.2          0.1
Nut Diubuerncenctc                      6.8         26.4       19.7                     27            79.2 681 757                                  87.6        99.7         30.8
Othc HkUT o  -n                         3.0          4.8         5.3        2.4          1.9           1.0       0.5         8.0         0.0         0.0         8.8          0.0
us-1.5                                            -.8        -2.4        -2.8         -1.9          -2.5      -2.5        -2.0        -2.3        -2.1        -2.0        - 2.9
Capita] Traceacticus c.e.i.             1.8          2.5        -6.0      -26.2        -15.0                                      1970         At971 liz. _    12..        ti.- 7 d
Charole ic Nct Reserves               -16.9         -6.7        37.3       105.4        91.4        Lgb AND DEPZ E3RVTCE79
Public Debt Out. & Disbu-ed   169.0    204.9     226.9      256.5      282.2
(SiAN? AND loAN C0770118E8TS
OfficiA.l Orants A Grant-like          11.4         11.3        14.9        14.2                      Iaterest un Public Debt      6.2       7.0       8.1        8.9        9.8
Repaymncts un Public Debt    14.8      13.2      13.3      13.0       21.6
PubTlic 911. truce                                                                                   Total Public Dcbt 5ervice    21.0      20.2      21.4       21.9      21.4
mBo                                                 -         18.8         -                       Other Debt Scerice (Cot)       -         -
rDA                                   3.1         13.9       34.3        53.0                      Tutal Debt Sernice (ct)      21.0      20.2      21.4       21.9      21.4
Oth   Hcaiuiitcral                                                                               Bad- in  cc Eepcrt -deriae  %
loeeer,meotc                          8.6         26.9        17.3       26.7
Suppliers                             1.3          0.7          -          0.1                      Public Debt service          11.6      10.6      8.6        6.3        5.6
pi.auctal Cautitutuoc                 3.0          5-0          -         6.0                      Total Debt Service           11.6      10.6       8.6        6.3       5.6
PonId                                              -                                               TDSDeirect Ca-t. anc.        14.5      14.3      13.9       11.2       11.0
Public l.oacu c.e.i.--                                                     -
Tuta3 Public HlkLT? loans              16.0         1873       727    85Y8                        Average Turero u Public Debt
Actual Debt Outetartdig ou Dec. 31.1973                    mot. -- % Pricr YTr DUD      4.0       4.1       4.0        3.9        3.0
EXTERNAL1 D089?                              ll.sbNC!..2                                               A-cetIrrt. on% Prior Yea  tOeD  9.5     7.8       6.5        5.7        4.5
D.q                                           45.5                      17.7                      ITbD Debt Out. & Disbu.eed     47.4      57.1      64.2       67.4       6fi.5
Lthe- M'ltilatecrl                                                                                   c  an 9 Public Debt 0hD      28.0      27.9      28.3       26.3       73.6
Ooverr.mencts                                  112.6                     4905                        c  an9 Public Debt Service   27.1      28.7      29.0       34.2       38.3
Pu.ppl .ceS                                     1.20.
Ficuccial   criraticce                        29.8                      11.6                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed      22.7      26.4      33.2       45.5       54.7
plbl;c Lebts n.e.i                                                                                      0 % PUblic Debt OhD       13.4      12.9      14.6       17.7       19.4
TPulc Pblib M&LT Debt                         256.5                     1.0                             0   Public Debt Service    0.7       0.9       1.3        2.3        2.6
Other M&LT DSbtui
shert-ter-  Debt (diub. ealy)
cut upplicablc                                                5 staff esticte1
net aecilabie                                                 - nil or regligible                                                                         EcAcDber 10  1975
-t avilable -nprty tota                                           leestb  bif b97
but ieladed IO total                                             n        -ie. utnic



ANNEX I
Page 4
EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND NET PRIVATE CAPITAL INFLOW TO ETHIOPIA
Gross Public Loan Disbursements by Source, 1962-1973
(US $ millions)
Total                                                       Percentages
1962
to                                                      1962- 1966- 1970-
1965   1S66  1967  1968  1969  1970   1971  1972  1973   1965   1969   1973
IPJD              1i4.3    7.8  6.4   4.8    6.8   5.6  12.5   9.4   6.o   17.7   24.6   25.6
IDA                5.8    2.7   2.6   4.1    4.4   2.8   3.7   4.5   8.6    7.2   13.2   15.0
USA               h43-4   5.2    4.6   9.3   7.8   5.7  15.7   9.5  10.6   53.7   25.7   31.7
ULSSR              5.9    3.7    3.8   1.8   0.7    -    0.3    -     -     7.3    9.5    0.2
Germany            3.4      -    2.0   0.2   0.6   1.4   3.8   3.8   3.8    4.2    2.7    9.8
Sweden             0.8     -      -     -    1.6   1.0   1.9   2.0   1.4    1.0    1.5    4.8
Italy              0.7      -    1.1   I.3   5.0   2.0   4.3   0.7    -     0.9    9.9     5.3
Yugoslavia         4.0    0.4    0.6   0.1   0.2   0.1    -     -     -     5.0    1.2      -
IJUnited Kingdom    -      -      -     -     -     -     -    0.6   2.0                   2.0
Netherlands         -    1').9    -     -     -     -     -     -     -      -    10.4      -
Other              2.4     0.4    -    0.3   0.7   2.4   1.9   2.0   1.1    3.0    1.3     5.7
TOTAL          80.8   31.1   21.1  24.9  27.7  20.9 144.0  32.5  33.5  100.0  100.0  100.0
Gross Public Loan Capital Inflow by Sector, 1962-1973
(US $ millions)
Comaunica ti ons
and Power      59.5   22.4   12.9Q  8.0 12.2    8.4  26.2  21.0  16.9   73.6   53.0    5514
Industi-y         13.8     3.6   4.5;  4.9   1.5   2.4   2.1   2.0   1.6   17.1   13.8     6.2
Agriculture        0.3     0.1   0.2    -     -    0.3   8.7   4.7   6.7    0.4    0.3    15.6
Health             0.8     0.5   1.5   5.9   8.6   3.8   2.9   1.6   1.5    1.0   15.7     7.5
Eduication         0.4      -    o.14  2.4   2.2   1.2   0.8   1.6   4.0    0.5    4.8     5.8
DFC                3.0     0.1    -    0.7   1.8   4.2   3.2   0.5   2.1    3.7    2.5     7.6
Other              3.0    4.4    1.6   3.1   1.4   0.6   0.2   1.0   0.7    3.7   10.0     1.9
TOTAL          80.8   31.1   21.1  24.9  27.7  20.9  44.0  32.5  33.5  100.0  100.0  100.0
Net Private Capital Inflow 1965-1973
(US $ nLill ions)
Total    Total
1965    '966  1967  1968  1969  1970   1971  1972  1973  1965-69  1970-73
1o.4     6.4   2.8   6.4 -2.0   11.2  14.6   13.2  19.6   24.0     58.6
a



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
A.                           STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1975)
Amount
Loan or                                                                   (US$ Million)
Credit                                                            (less cancellation) Undis-
Number      Year      Borrower           Purpose                     Bank     IDA     bursed
Ten loans fully disbursed                                            93.3
Three credits fully disbursed                                                28.4
605-ET      1969     BTE/2         Telecommunications IV              4.5              0.6
169-ET      1969     Ethiopia      Wolamo Agriculture                         3.5       -
188-ET      1970     Ethiopia      Humera Agriculture                         3.1      0.2
243-ET      1971     Ethiopia      Education II                               9.5      4.0
269-ET      1971     Ethiopia      Dairy                                      4.4      2.8
818-ET      1972     AAWSA/3       Addis Ababa Water                 10.8              5.7
Supply & Sewerage
290-ET      1972     Ethiopia      Coffee Processing                          6.3      5.1
304-ET      1972     Ethiopia      Agricultural & Industrial                 11.0      3.7
Development Bank
332-ET      1972     Ethiopia      Highways V                                17.0     12.6
365-ET      1973     Ethiopia      Livestock II                               5.0      4.2
416-ET      1973     Ethiopia      Agric. Minimum Package                    21.0     16.3
417-ET      1973     Ethiopia      Education III                             10.0     10.0
418-ET      1973     Ethiopia      Amibara Irrigation                        17.0     15.8
453-ET      1974     Ethiopia      Telecommunications V                      21.4     20.6
485-ET      1974     Ethiopia      Drought Areas Rehabilitation              10.0      9.3
486-ET      1974     Ethiopia      Wolamo Agriculture II                     12.0     12.0
516-ET      1974     Ethiopia      Lower Adiabo                               9.5      9.1
552-ET      1975     Ethiopia      Highways VI                               32.0     32.0
553-ET      1975     Ethiopia      Education IV                              23.0     23.0
554-ET      1975     Ethiopia      Telecommunications V                      16.0     16.0
Total                                                  108.6    260.1
of which has been repaid                              33.6      0.3
Total now outstanding                                   75.0    259.8
Amount sold                              6.0
of which has been repaid               6.0             -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                       75.0   259.8
Total undisbursed                                        6.3    196.7    203.0
1/ Ethiopian Electric Light and Power Authority
2/  Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia
3/ Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Authority



ANNEX II
Page 2
ETHIOPIA
B.                                 STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1975)
US$ Million
Type of              Amount
Year                   Obligor                             Business      Loan   Equity  Total
1965      Cotton Company of Ethiopia I                     Textiles      1.5     1.0     2.5
1966      Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.                      Paper                 1.9     1.9
1968      HVA Metahara                                     Sugar         5.5     3.5     9.0
1970      Cotton Company of Ethiopia II                    Textiles      0.4     0.2     0.6
1973      Cotton Company of Ethiopia III                   Textiles      1.5     0.2     1.7
Total Gross Commitments                                        8.9     6.8     15.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                    4.5     3.1     7.6
Total Commitments now held by IFC                              4.4     3.7      8.1
Total Undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - ETHIOPIA-
Ln. No. 605  Telecommunications IV Project; US$4.5 million Loan of June 3, 1969;
Date of Effectiveness: September 2, 1969; Closing Date: December 31,
1973, postponed to December 31, 1974 and subsequently to December 31,
1975.
SIDA is providing joint financing of $4.5 million equivalent to
finance part of the foreign exchange cost. Overall progress has been reason-
ably on target. However, installation of three microwave routes were not
accomplished until mid-1975, about one and one-half years behind schedule;
these routes are now being tested for acceptance. The delays were mainly
due to difficulty in obtaining suitable consultants to work on the survey
of these routes and labor strikes in supplier's country.
Cr. No. 169 Wolamo Agriculture Development Project; US$3.5 million Credit of
November 26, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: April 28, 1970; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976.
Project was completed 18 months ahead of schedule. While crop
yields and farm income are above appraisal estimates, livestock development
made slow progress and did not reach anticipated targets.
Cr. No. 188  Humera Agriculture Project;   US$3.1 million Credit of May 28. 1970;
Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1970; Closing Date: December
31, 1973, postponed to December 31, 1974 and then to December 31,
1975.
The project is behind appraisal completion schedule by about one
year, due mainly to delays in procurement of heavy road construction equipment
and delays in installation of the Humera water system, which had to be under-
taken by force account construction due to non-availability of contractors.
Consultants' study on the second phase project was submitted to the Government
in February 1974. Only about $200,000 remain undisbursed. The project is lo-
cated near the Eritrean border and the current unrest and fighting in Eritrea
has adversely affected the movement of surplus agricultural produce to Eritrean
ports and caused disruption of the project road construction and agricultural
research programs. Agricultural extension work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 243 Education II Project; US$9.5 million Credit of May 6, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: August 26, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. During second
semester 1974, 21 civil works contracts were awarded. The Academy of Pedagogy
and its teachers institute is in use, 9 project institutions are about to be
handed over, the remaining are scheduled for completion by last semester 1975,
six months before the closing date. Furniture and equipment procurements are
on schedule, some supplementary equipment will be ordered soon. Technical
assistance is progressing and the manpower study has been extended by three
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are
being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They should be
read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not purport to pre-
sent a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
man-years to 7 man-years.   Currently a cost overrun of about US$2.8 million
may be expected.  However, bilateral assistance n4 cover part of the overrun.
The Project Unit is updating the costing and the next supervision mission will
be paying special attention to it.
Cr. No. 269 Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project; US$4.4 million Credit of
August 30, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 1, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The project was reviewed in September of this year and most of
the recommendations made by the October 1974 supervision mission are being
implemented. The main remaining constraints are the appointment of an ade-
quate number of permanent senior Project staff and the standstill of the credit
program for dairy farm development which has not yet been reformulated by the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank following the Land Reform Law of
April 29, 1975.
Cr. No. 290 Coffee Processing Project; US$6.3 million Credit of March 20,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: December 15, 1972; Closing'
Date:  December 31   1977
Physical execution of major project components is about 24 months
behind schedule due to delays in Credit effectiveness, procurement of road con-
struction equipment and start of construction of coffee washing stations. Road
construction started in December 1974 and is now progressing well. Project
execution is now accelerating.
Ln. No. 818 Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$10.8 million
Loan of May 2, 1372; Date of Effectiveness: September 8, 1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Progress on the water supply component has improved significantly
in recent months and completion may be ahead of schedule. Sewerage construction
will begin at least one year late, due first to delays in design and acquisition
of sewage treatment plant site, and then to financial constraints. Estimated
cost overruns now total about US$10 million (70%) over the appraisal estimates,
including about US$6 million of foreign exchange costs, because of unanticipated
increases in the cost of all goods and services. Including requirements for
funds outside the project, a total financing gap of IJS$13 million has developed
for AAWSA of which US$6 million would be filled by an expected African Develop-
ment Fund loan in this year to cover the foreign exchange cost of sewerage. The
balance of the overrun will have to be met by additional internal cash generation,
and probably some government assistance. Government action on a substantial
tariff increase is being urged by the Bank.



ANNEX II
-age 5-
Cr. No. 304 Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project; US$11.0
million Credit of May 10, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: October
25, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The funds originally allocated to the industrial portion of the
credit have been fully committed and $1.4 million have been reallocated to
the industrial portion from the agricultural portion which has proceeded more
slowly. An additional $1.5 million has been reallocated to finance an Emer-
gency Tractor Ploughing and Seed Distribution Program. The World Bank has
recently signed a Project Agreement as Executing Agency for a UNDP project
to provide a financial advisor to AIDB for two years to advise in the planning,
organization and control of its financial operations.
Cr. No. 332  Fifth Highway Project;   US$17.0 million Credit of September 29,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 24, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
The four feeder road contracts are progressing satisfactorily.
One successful Ethiopian contractor has received an equipment loan financed
under the project from the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank.
The Government is being reminded of its obligations to control vehicle
axle loads.
Cr. No. 365  Second Livestock Project;   US$5.0 million Credit of April 2, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 24, 1973; Closing Date: July 15,
1977.
The construction program of the project is more than one year
behind schedule mainly due to problems with private contractors, whose activities
and willingness to bid for contracts have been hampered by uncertainty and re-
duced access to the credit institutions. The project is now seeking IDA approval
for the establishment of a construction unit and the execution of project con-
structions under force account. The project is also suffering from a cost over-
run problem, and a revised development program has been approved. Funds, however,
will be exhausted early in calendar year 1977 and it is now recommended that funds
for completion of this program should be included in the next livestock develop-
ment project.
Cr. No. 416 Agricultural Minimum Package Project: US$21.0 million Credit of
July 5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977.
Project implementation has gone well, and has exceeded targets for
establishment of minimum package areas. Participation of tenant farmers has,
however, been lower than anticipated and is being studied. The increased price
of fertilizer poses a serious threat to the program. For this year, the Govern-
ment has obtained bilateral financing which will assist in the procurement of
fertilizer and make possible a subsidy in the fertilizer price to the small
farmers.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 417 Third Education Project; US$10.0 million Credit of July 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: August 30, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978.
The contract for the design, the preparation of bidding and
contract documents and supervision during construction of the University
Science Center was signed in February 1975;   the consultants have established
their office in Addis Ababa and designs have started. Most site surveys have
been completed. Sketch plans for the Science Curriculum Development Center
and for the Educational Materials Production Center have been approved and
preparation of bidding and eontract documents for these institutions have
commenced. Designs for the agricultural institutions under the project is
about to commence. Draft furniture and equipment lists and bidding docu-
ments are under preparation. The Government is considering deletion of the
Ethiopian Orthodox Church Development Commission's Training Center from the
project. The Project Manager has initiated a working party to oversee and
coordinate technical assistance implementation. Disbursement applications
can be expected soon.
Cr. No. 418 Amibara Irrigation Project; US$17.0 million Credit of July 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness; August 30, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979.
The 14 months delay in credit effectiveness was mainly caused by
a delay in parliamentary ratification of the credit. Meanwhile, project con-
sultants estimated a 3-4 tirnes increase in project costs, and questions were
raised whether the project was still financially feasible and economically
viable. Consultants had prepared alternative proposals, and an IDA mission
visited Ethiopia in February 1975 to examine the alternative ways of con-
structing project works and implementing the project. A follow-up study
comparing a basic gravity irrigation scheme with a pump scheme for the pro-
ject area was completed by project consultants in May. This showed the gravity
irrigation to be a more practical alternative to pump irrigation. However, this
leaves a financing gap of about US$17 million. Other financing agencies have
been approached to fill the gap and a mission for the appraisal of the rede-
signed project is planned for early 1976.
Cr. No. 453  Telecommunications V Project (First Tranche);   US$21.4 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August 23,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is approximately six months behind schedule due to
initial delays resulting from labor disturbances in Ethiopia, but progress
is now satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 485 Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project; US$10 million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 7, 1974;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The project is beginning to pick up speed and two more sub-projects
(making a total of four out of eight) have been approved by the Commission's
Project Review Group (PRG) and three more are under preparation. The prepa-
ration of the eighth sub-project -- rural roads -- is being complicated by the
Ethiopian Highway Authority (EHA) insistence on higher minimum rural road stan-
dards with consequently higher construction costs than the Association can
accept; attempts to resolve this matter are being made.
Cr. No. 486 Second Wolamo Agricultural Development Project; US$12.0 million
Credit of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: June 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project execution started in July 1975 on a reduced budget, since
local funds were limited. Most key staff have recently resigned as a conse-
quence of junior staff unrest. Project Director and Deputy Director are now
replaced and recruitment of other key staff is under way.
Cr. No. 516  Lower Adiabo Development Project:   US$9.5 million Credit of
October 18, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The credit became effective February 5, 1975, but Government failed
to supply adequate funds to implement the project; nevertheless, most of the
key staff have been recruited, good progress has been made with land planning,
a training course for agricultural extension agents has been started and some
loans for the purchase of work oxen have been made to erstwhile landless pea-
sants recently granted farms under the new land reform procedures. Project
activities will complement the Land Reform Program started under Proclamation
No. 31 of 1975. Law and order prevails in the project area.
Cr. No. 552  Sixth Highway Project:   US$32.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 553  Fourth Education Project, US$23.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: August 6, 1975: Closing Date: December
31, 1981.
Cr. No. 554  Fifth Telecommunication Project (Second Tranche);    US$16.0 million
Credit of June 4, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.



ANNEX III
Page 1
ETHIOPIA - RANGELANDS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                          Ethiopia
BENEFICIARY:                       Livestock and Meat Board (LMB)
AMOUNT:                            US$27.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                             Standard
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:               The project would, over a five year period,
provide for the development and rehabilitation
of three lowland range areas inhabited
mostly by nomadic pastoralists engaged in
traditional extensive livestock grazing and
production. These traditional practices would
be restructured into an effective livestock
industry by the establishment in each of the
three sub-project areas -- the Southern kange-
lands, Jijigga and the Northeast Rangelands --
of individual range management development
units, providing integrated programs of range
management, veterinary services, improved roads
and water facilities. Specifically, the Pro-
ject would provide for:
(a) the institution of land planning and
range management programs in conjunction
with a program for the gradual control
of livestock numbers;
(b) the establishment of a basic veterinary
and livestock extension service designed
to reach the nomadic pastoralists;
(c) construction of water facilities including
both permanent and rainy season water ponds
as well as a small number of boreholes and
concrete water tanks; a limited water
spreading program would be carried out in
the Northeast Rangelands area;
(d) construction of trade roads and feeder
tracks;
(e) the development of fattening ranches and a
feedlot (Southern Rangelands only) and
smallholder fattening schemes;



ANNEX III
Page 2
f) a program of trials and studies with
emphasis on improved range use and
grazing control practices;
g) training of Project staff, livestock
owners and tribal leaders; and
h) provision of supplemental staff within
LMB in order to improve its overall
efficiency and to enable it to provide
technical and administrative services
as well as staff for the three sub-
project units.
ESTIMATED COSTS:                     Total project cost is estimated at   US$42.9
million with a foreign exchange component of
US$14.0 million or 33%. Taxes and duties on
project items are estimated at US$300,000.
Project costs are summarized on page 4 by
major components.
FINANCING PLAN:                                        US$ million         %
IDA                 27.0             63
ADF                   5.5            13
Government           10.5            24
43.0           100
The proposed ADF contribution would parallel
finance up to 76% of the costs of the ranches,
the feedlot, the smallholder fattening program
and specified roads in the Southern Rangelands
sub-project.
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                                    (US$ millions)
Fiscal Year         Annual       Cumulative
1977                  2.55           2.55
1978                  6.70           9.25
1979                  6.30          15.55
1980                  6.00          21.55
1981                  5.45          27.00
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS:            Procurement of vehicles would be through
normal IDA international competitive bidding,
with the exception of up to fifteen vehicles
purchased through normal commercial channels,
to facilitate early operation. Since project
buildings and structures will necessarily be
scattered over the three range areas, struc-
tures would be built by force account or by
local contractors hired by LMB, while all project



ANNEX III
Page 3
headquarters buildings and senior staff
housing would be constructed using normal
government procedures. Various items of
veterinary equipment, medicines, chemicals
and fertilizers would be purchased through
normal commercial channels, since the small
amounts involved, needed at scattered loca-
tions at varying times, make these items
unsuitable for international competitive
bidding.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:                Fourteen internationally recruited experts for
project execution. (Over half are expected to
be Ethiopians.)
RATE OF RETURN:                      24 percent
APPRAISAL REPORT:                    Report No. 854a-ET dated November 21, 1975,
Eastern Africa Projects Department,
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division.



ANNEX III
Page -4
Southern               Northeast            Foreign
Rangelands   Jijigga    Rangelands   Total   Exchange
- - - - - - - - - -USs$r0oo    - - - - - - - _    %--
Range Management                          777          929        666      2,372      35
Veterinary Services                     1,738        1,690      1,042      4,469       38
Water                                   1,111          440         -       1,551       53
Irrigation/Water Spreading                 -           -        3,105      3,105      39
Ranches                                 2,023           -          -       2,023      27
Feedlot                                 1,019           -          -       1,019       30
Smallholder Fattening                     816       1,457          -       2,273      25
Marketing and Grazier   Scheme             -            -         436        436       15
Roads                                   2,451          989        553      3,993      29
Training                                  593         514         273      1,380      50
Trials and Studies                        519          703        156      1,377      36
Services and Supplies                      -           -          306        306      35
Project Administration                  1,260        1,242      1,171      3,674      22
LMB Rangeland Development Dept.           418          423        419      1,260      38
Base Cost                              12,727        8,387      8,128     29,241       34
Contingencies
Physical (10% per annum)              1,272         838         813      2,924      34
Price (10% p.a. compounded)           4,611       2,985       3,096     10,691      30
Total Project Cost                     18,609      12,210      12,037     42,856      33   -



hcs t                                             \_> / \> iAAie:z a \ }/ { Railroads
- Mim -coda
Socoh'!, frt ,joo
N         L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Orhor roaao
8 [ sD  \  (  ,/   |   t     Me"Qod  a          >  ' .  d   !        l;l  I  o,   5,.0 s  100 -   1?0 2(-
st        tX    B~~~~~~~~~~ E G E\f I R  -        -     ^     ,   6      ;             IouT5
-    -                      N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IILOdE TERS
NCs         r        A--5Gonder              _ Ko,.,   r   _  - r  :
/           2                    E ' t>Addi. z}             1       Geti, is  t A  F T A  ,  ' f o f  Ade n  I2V
_a _DOR    Kulab    l  e i a.9
J  GO JAM  nji~~~~~~~~~~~~~eroll
A Shombo  / 5         Tsi                                        S 0broTsirhOebreSnr  M  A  L I A
,' r%GO% Ch 
Gm b t-D-bi zNekemte  rRGoko  ,  4   4
I\.r-                    ABS BAsbe TeY'ri
' '~~~~~ Sir         Ged        AkO-      \ ,\    '~     E ,/
DemtitGhion                Tet           0 Ti soye Berhn   INr                     . ..\ ).
Erber     R    iJ                             c   " 
6* *........ ILLUABOI    - ,F          ,oni,)R{                                           /. 
Age r        LAb ey o    y1^      <;\ 
I L U 8 A 8  A A       E
Mizen Teler,            d oa, /S-  - ee e  o   G
enchUl . G A  D          A4L   F
Ne 36-   b I-           \  4p              <            414  !   M o wlss.o   .      46-y
'3  ./  \\\                             /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
UGANDA 
40                            4            oolc



