CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 603 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rangelands Development Project)
BETWEEN
ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 16, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 603 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rangelands Development Project)
BETWEEN
ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 16, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 1976, between ETHIOPIA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Livestock and Meat Board of
the Borrower (hereinafter called LMB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to LMB the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and LMB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "LMB" means the Livestock and Meat Board, established and operating
in accordance with Order No. 34 dated March 14, 1964 and Proclamation No. 212
dated March 14, 1964;


﻿4
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and LMB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Project Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and LMB pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Development Credit Agreement, as the same m-y be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to such agreement;
(d)   "Order" means Order No. 34 of the Borrower dated March 14, 1964
providing for the establishment of LMB;
(e)   "Proclamation" means Proclamation No. 212 of the Borrower dated
March 14, 1964 defining the powers of LMB;
(f)   "Project areas" means the following portions of the territory of the
Borrower: (i) the Southern Rangeland area covering about 95,000 km in the
Sidamo Administrative Region; (ii) the Jijigga area covering about 33,000 km2
in the Jijigga Awaraja Administration and parts of Gursum and Dagabar Awaraja
Administrations; and (iii) the Northeast Rangeland area covering about 75,000 km2
in the Wollo and Tigre Administrative Regions;
(g)   "Sub-project Unit" means any of the units responsible for the
implementation of the Project in each of the three Project areas;
(h)   "Sub-project account" means the account referred to in Section
4.01(b) of the Project Agreement; and
(i)   "Eth$" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.0 1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million dollars
($27,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as


﻿5
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing
March 1, 1986 and ending September 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on September 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. LMB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
LMB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and


﻿6
the Project Financing Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable LMB to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall make available to LMB the proceeds of the Credit and such
additional funds as shall be required in order for LMB to carry out the Project,
pursuant to a Project Financing Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and LMB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project Financing
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Project Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the National Water Resources
Commission to designate each Sub-project Unit as the Water Authority, defined
in the Borrower's Order No. 75 of 1971, for its respective areas, and shall cause
all water devdlopment within such Sub-project Unit's jurisdiction to be coordinated
by it.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall (i) cause its Ministry of Public Works and
Housing to delegate to LMB the authority to approve plans and build buildings
for special activities and field constructions included in the Project costing up to
Eth$20,000 per item of construction through force account or by local contractors
employed by LMB; and (ii) make arrangements satisfactory to the Association to
reduce delays in the approval of plans and execution of works in respect of buildings
and other constructions included in the Project costing above Eth$20,000 per item
of construction.
Section 3.04. In taking any measures or adopting any regulations concerning
production and marketing of livestock, the Borrower shall pay due consideration
to the need to continue to increase production and stimulate the sale of livestock.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿7
(a)   A default shall have occurred in the performance of any obligation
on the part of LMB under the Project Agreement or the Project Financing
Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of LMB or for the
suspension of its operations.
(c)   The Order or the Proclamation or any provision thereof or any other
legislation presently in force and effect and governing the organization and
operations of LMB shall have been amended, suspended, modified or repealed
without the Association's prior agreement so as to affect materially and adversely
LMB's operations or financial condition or LMB's ability to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Project Financing Agreement.
(d)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
impossible that LMB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Project Financing Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall have occurred and shall have continued for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and LMB; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall have occurred.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of LMB
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;


﻿8
(b)  The execution and delivery of the Project Financing Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and LMB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)   The Sub-project accounts for each of the Sub-project Units have been
established and a deposit of funds therein has been made to cover the expenditures
for the first quarter of the Project implementation period starting January 1, 1976,
such deposit to be made on the basis of a reasonable estimate of the eicpenditures
for such period.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, LMB, and is legally binding upon LMB
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Project Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and LMB, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and LMB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date April 21, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.04 of this
Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿9
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By /s / Ghebeyehou Mekbib
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil works                                 )
(Housing, build-                            )
ings and other                              )
infrastructure)                             )
Southern Rangelands              740,000    )
Jijigga                          670,000    )
Northeast Range-                 550,000    )
lands                                       )
(2)   Vehicles                                    )
(Including vehicles                         )
for road construc-                          )
tion)                                       )
Southern Rangelands              400,000    )     100% of foreign
Jijigga                          430,000    )     expenditures or
Northeast Range-                 500,000    )     76% of total ex-
lands                                       )     penditures
LMB                               43,000    )
(3)  Equipment, furni-                            )
ture and supplies                           )
Southern Rangelands              310,000    )
Jijigga                          620,000    )
Northeast Range-                 460,000    )
lands                                       )
LMB                              200,000    )


﻿11
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4)   Technical assis-                            )
tance, local staff                          )
and labor                                   )
(Including Pension                          )
Fund and Post al-                           )
lowances)                                   )
Southern Rangelands            2,750,000    )
Jijigga                        2,410,000    )
Northeast Range-               2,610,000    )
lands                                       )
LMB                             525,000     )
(5)  Project administra-                          )    100% of foreign
tion                                        )     expenditures or
(Vehicle and other                          )     76% of total ex-
running costs, fel-                         )     penditures
lowships, studies                           )
and working capi-                           )
ta)                                         )
Southern Rangelands            1,400,000    )
Jijigga                        2,100,000    )
Northeast Range-               1,900,000    )
lands                                       )
LMB                              170,000    )
(6)   Unallocated
Southern Rangelands            2,400,000
Jijigga                        2,570,000
Northeast Range-               2,680,000
lands
LMB                             482,000
TOTAL        27,000,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures: (i) prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3), (4) and (5) on
account of expenditures incurred after July 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $500,000; and (ii) in respect of any of the Project
areas until the Project Manager, the Senior Range Officer, the Senior Financial
Officer and the Senior Veterinarian of the Sub-project Unit in that area have been
recruited and their qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment have been considered satisfactory by the Association.
5.    Notwithstanding   the allocation  of an  amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting


﻿13
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project aims at providing for the development and rehabilitation of the
Southern Rangeland, Jijigga and Northeast Rangeland areas inhabited mostly by
pastoralists engaged in extensive livestock production, and consists of the following
Parts:
A.    Development of land    planning and   range management programs in
conjunction with a program for the gradual control of livestock numbers,
limitation of burning and tree cutting and introduction of controlled grazing
and closure of pastures.
B.    Establishment of a basic veterinary and livestock extension service designed
to reach the pastoralists.
C.    (i)        Construction of water facilities including permanent water ponds
with a capacity of about 20,000 m     , rainy season surface
catchment ponds with a capacity of about 6,000 m3, and a small
number of boreholes and concrete water tanks; and
(ii)        A water spreading program for simple irrigation in the Northeast
Rangeland area.
D.    (i)        Construction and improvement of about: (i) 540 km of trade
roads and 460 km of access tracks in the Southern Rangeland
area; (ii) 765 km of trade roads and 740 km of access tracks
in the Jijigga area; and (iii) 165 km of trade roads and 380 km
of access tracks in the Northeast Rangeland area; and
(ii)        Provision of communications equipment for the Northeast
Rangeland area.
For the purposes of Part D(i) the term  "trade roads" means those roads
designed to open up an area for administrative and trade purposes and built
to a standard specified as 6 meters wide over shoulders with 4 meters selected
gravel when necessary and such temporary or improvised drainage or other
constructions as are required; and the term "access tracks" means those tracks
designed to allow access to the range areas by Project staff and to facilitate
communications on the range and built to a standard specified as 4 meters
wide with passing bays every 300 meters with such temporary drainage or
other constructions as are required, but subject to reasonable modification
if necessary.


﻿15
E.    (i)         Establishment of up to four fattening and backgrounding ranches
of about 25,000 ha and a feedlot unit in the Southern
Rangeland area; and
(ii)        A program   for smallholder fattening whereby livestock is sold
on credit to smallholders for fattening.
F.    Technical and socio-economic trials and studies to provide answers to
technical problems and to assess the results achieved by the Project. Areas
of investigation of the studies include: improved range management
techniques, integration of arable farming with livestock production, use of
enclosures, development of fodder banks, and range ecology. Socio-economic
studies will continue and enlarge efforts already underway to estimate herd
numbers and composition, offtake, migration patterns of livestock owners,
and changing tribal structures and traditions.
G.    Training of Project staff and livestock producers.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


