CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 603 ET
Project Agreement
(Rangelands Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT BOARD
DATED JANUARY 16, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT BOARD (hereinafter called LMB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million dollars ($27,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that LMB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a project financing agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and LMB, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement and the additional funds required for the carrying
out of the Project will be made available to LMB on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS LMB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. LMB shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, economic and
agricultural practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) LMB shall cause each Sub-project Unit to establish and
maintain a separate Sub-project account for the purpose of recording all receipts
and payments of money for or in connection with the Project in its respective
area.
(b)   LMB shall make quarterly deposits in the Sub-project accounts of such
amounts of money as shall be necessary to provide each such account with an
adequate level of funds to cover estimated Project expenditures in the ensuing
quarter.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) LMB undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by LMB to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, LMB shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) LMB shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   LMB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project,
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿5
(c)   LMB shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of LMB and
any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. LMB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Project
Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LMB shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Project Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) LMB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Project
Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   LMB shall inform the Association of any condition which interferes
or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by LMB of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Project Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LMB
Section 3.01. LMB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. (a) In carrying out the Project, LMB shall, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, maintain the organizational structure set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Association and LMB.
(b)   For the purpose of carrying out the various technical, administrative
and financial tasks associated with the Project, LMB shall, until the completion
of the Project, and in accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement, employ (i)
qualified and experenced persons acceptable to the Association to fill the positions
of Department Head of LMB's Rangeland Development Department, Financial
Controller of LMB's Finance Department, and Project Manager, Senior Range
Officer, Senior Financial Officer and Senior Veterina-in of each Sub-project Unit;
and (ii) qualified and experienced persons to fill the positions of Water Engineer,


﻿6
Personnel Officer, Sociologist and Mass Media and Training Specialist of LMB's
Rangeland Development Department, Internal Auditor, two Accountants, a Senior
Procurement Officer and a Junior Procurement Officer of LMB's Finance
Department, and a Livestock Marketing Specialist in the Sub-project Unit for the
Southern Rangeland area.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. LMB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. LMB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements),
including the Sub-project accounts, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of LMB and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of LMB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.


﻿7
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify LMB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
Internatioinal Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For LMB:
Livestock and Meat Board
P.O. Box 1052
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
YESEGABOARD
Addis Ababa


﻿8
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of LMB may be taken or executed by the General Manager of LMB or such other
person or persons as the Board of Directors of LMB shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. LMB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of LMB, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by LMB pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT BOARD
By /s / Legesse Tickeher
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Vehicles and road construction equipment shall be procured under contracts
to be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972. (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Whenever possible, orders for the procurement of vehicles and road
construction equipment shall be grouped in a manner to achieve the lowest possible
price consistent with appropriate technical practices.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, LMB may procure up
to 15 vehicles through normal commercial channels and in accordance with the
Borrower's usual procurement procedures.
4.    Civil works contracts shall be procured in accordance with the Borrower's
usual prk,arement procedures.
5.    Veterinary equipment, medicines, chemicals and fertilizer may be procured
through normal commercial channels, in accordance with the Borrower's usual
procurement procedures.
6.    Buildings for specialized activities and field constructions costing not more
than Eth$20,000 per unit shall be built in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.03(i) of the Development Credit Agreement.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for vehicles and road construction equipment
referred to in Part A. 1 of this Schedule:
(a)   Before bids are invited, LMB shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents or


﻿10
procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, LMB shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received., together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform LMB
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, LMB shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform LMB and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
Organization of LMB and Sub-project Units
A.    Organization of LMB
The Rangeland Development Department of LMB will coordinate the
execution of the Project in the three Project areas and will provide administrative
and technical assistance to the three Sub-project Units. The staff of this Department
will include a Department Head (internationally recruited), a Personnel Officer,
a Water Engineer, a Sociologist and a Mass Media and Training Specialist.
The Finance Department of LMB will provide financial and procurement
services to the three Sub-project Units. The staff of this Department will include
a Financial Controller (internationally recruited), an Internal Auditor, two
Accountants, a Senior Procurement Officer and a Junior Procurement Officer.
B.    Sub-project Units
Each Sub-project Unit will be responsible for the implementation of the
Project in its respective area. The Units will be headed by a Project Manager
responsible to the Head of the Rangeland Development Department of LMB.
Each Sub-project Unit will have the following divisions reporting directly
to the Project Manager: (i) Range Management Division; (ii) Veterinary Division,
(iii) Fattening Division (the Southern Rangelands and the Jijigga Sub-project Units
only); (iv) Finance and Administration Division; (v) Technical Division; and (vi)
Training and Information Division. In addition to these divisions, the Northeast
Rangelands Sub-project Unit will have a Marketing Unit, a Supplies and Distribution
Unit and an Irrigation Division.
The Project Manager will have immediate responsibility for the coordination
of all Project activities within his area. To assist him in this effort and to ensure
coordination of Project activities with other programs currently underway, each
Project Manager will set up a Project Development Committee, which will include
the District Administrators, other regional and local representatives, and
representatives of the livestock producers in the area.


