Document of
The World Bank   FILE Cop
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rlport No. P-2926-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE
BABAI IRRIGATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
December 11, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eotents may not otberwise be disctsed without World Bank athoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00      =     NRs 12.00
NR 1.00            US$0.08
NRs 100      =     US$8.33
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBN     -   Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC      -   Agricultural Inputs Corporation
DCA      -   Development Credit Agreement
DIHM     -   Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
HHGN     -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
MFA      -   Ministry of Food and Agriculture
SDR      -   Special Drawing Rights
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
BABAI IRRIGATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:              SDR 2.8 million (US$3.5 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:       The proposed project would assist the Government in the
preparation of final designs, tender documents and evalua-
tion of tenders for a proposed Babai Irrigation Project.
The engineering credit would finance:
(a)    preparation of detailed engineering designs,
cost estimates and tender documents for a
diversion weir across the Babai River, irri-
gation, drainage and road systems within the
project area, and a 30 km stretch of the East-
West Highway passing through the project area;
(b)    aerial photography and topographical mapping;
(c)    a semi-detailed soil survey and a socio-economic
benchmark survey, geological and hydrological
surveys and hydraulic model tests;
(d)    procurement of engineering equipment;
(e)    camps and quarters required for the field work,
local counterpart staff and related operational
cost; and
(f)    assistance to DIHM in prequalifying interested
civil works contractors and evaluation of
tenders.
The project faces no special risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thcir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Estimated Cost:                                         US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
Engineering Consultants:
Remuneration & Subsistence   0.15          1.05    1.20
Travel & Other Expenses        0.03       0.12    0.15
Sub-contracts                  0.15       0.40    0.55
Equipment & Vehicles           0.01       0.49    0.50
Socio-Economic Survey             0.05        -      0.05
Local Support                     0.10        -       0.10
Camp & Quarters                   0.25        -      0.25
0.74       2.06    2.80
Physical Contingencies            0.10       0.30    0.40
Price Contingencies               0.08       0.22    0.30
Total Cost
Net of Taxes and Duties       0.92       2.58    3.50
Taxes and Duties                  0.05         -     0.05
Total Project Cost            0.97       2.58    3.55
Financing Plan:                                      US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                              0.92      2.58      3.50
Government                        0.05        -      0.05
0.97     2.58      3.55
Estimated                                             US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:        IDA FY                           1981    1982    1983
Annual                          0.6      2.3       0.6
Cumulative                     0.6       2.9       3.5
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
Maps:                 IBRD No. 15208 and IBRD No. 15209.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE BABAI IRRIGATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
2.8 million (US$3.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance
the Babai Irrigation Engineering Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Nepal-Development Perform-
ance and Prospects" (Report No. 2692-NEP) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 14, 1979. The principal findings of the Report and
recent developments are described below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at $120 (1978), and health and education standards
are well below the average of South Asia: life expectancy at birth is about
45 years, infant mortality 150 per thousand, and adult literacy 19%. The
population, growing at the rate of 2.6% a year, is estimated to be 13.3
million (1978). Over 90% of the population live in rural areas.
4.        The economy of Nepal centers around agriculture.  It accounts for
more than 60% of GDP and 75% of merchandise exports, and provides a livelihood
to over 90% of the population. In addition, most of the industrial sector,
which comprises about 9% of GDP, processes agricultural raw materials. About
25% of total rural incomes are estimated to arise from non-agricultural
activities. Cottage industries are one of the most important of these,
engaging over 1 million people and comprising about 6% of GDP. They provide
basic consumer goods in the many small isolated markets where such goods would
otherwise not be available.
5.        As a small open economy, Nepal is highly susceptible to develop-
ments in India. The Terai, which lies along the Indian border, has close
and virtually free trading links with India, and accounts for about 60% of
the country's GDP, and about 40% of the population. The Kathmandu Valley,
the administrative and commercial center, is closely linked with the Terai,
but at significant transportation costs. The rest of the country, the Hills
and Mountains, is isolated by the nature of the terrain and consists of a
large number of fragmented markets.
6.        When Nepal adopted economic and social development as major gov-
ernment objectives in the early 1950s, there was virtually no economic or
administrative infrastructure. Initial development efforts were necessarily
concentrated on establishing a foundation for future development. During
these early stages, it was inevitable that growth would remain slow and that



- 2 -
there would be little if any increase in per capita income. However, the
Fifth Development Plan (1975/76-1979/80) was to be a turning point; it was
believed that the country was poised for more rapid growth on the order of 4-
5% annually. The level of investment was to increase substantially and its
focus to shift towards the more directly productive sectors and the social
services.
7.        Public investment performance has been excellent; development
expenditures have grown at over 15% annually in real terms and the Government
has been relatively successful in reorienting investment away from the trans-
port sector towards agriculture and the social services. However, few of the
other Fifth Plan objectives have been achieved. The GDP growth rate is likely
to average only 2.4% per year, mainly because of poor agricultural performance.
Little progress has been made in increasing agricultural productivity and
agricultural production increased at an annual rate of only 0.7% during the
first four years of the Fifth Plan. Growth in other sectors has been mixed,
with the poor agricultural performance limiting the growth of agro-related
industries. Production in several large industries including jute goods,
sugar, leather goods, and cement has increased but most Fifth Plan targets
will go unmet. In the services sector, tourism has been dynamic, but it
still only contributes about 1% of GDP.
8.        Economic developments during 1979/80 were characterized by declining
output, accelerating inflation, and a weakening in the trade and payments
position. Foodgrain production declined by 13% due to the poor monsoon in
1979, and to deal with this shortfall, the Government appealed for 110,000
tons of foodgrains assistance. Donors have made available about 60,000 tons
and together with local procurement from less seriously affected parts of
Nepal, this may be sufficient to maintain minimum food requirements. The
1980 monsoon is reported to have been satisfactory. Inflation accelerated
to about 12% in 1979/80, because of the deterioration in the domestic food
situation, higher import prices and the expansionary effects of the budget
deficit. Government activity slowed in 1979/80; real growth in total expen-
ditures was only 5% compared with 10% in 1978/79, while revenues declined by
3.5% in current terms. However, the economic prospects for 1980/81 are some-
what brighter in view of the improved weather as well as the planned accelera-
tion in government expenditures given in the 1980/81 Budget; GDP growth should
be positive in contrast to its 1% decline in 1979/80.
9.        The disappointing overall performance of the domestic economy during
the Fifth Plan period has been accompanied by a widening trade deficit.
Imports have grown under the impetus of the Government's development program
while the trend in export earnings has been sluggish due to declining rice
exports. The deterioration on the trade account has been partly covered by
increased tourism receipts and remittances from Gurkhas (soldiers from Nepal
serving in the British or Indian armies). Foreign assistance in the form of
grants and concessionary financing have generally ensured that the overall
balance remained in surplus. However, the shortfall in foodgrain production
coming at a time when Nepal's oil bill was rising has resulted in payments
deficit of US$8 million for the 12 months ending July 1980 and Nepal drew
SDR 10.5 million (US$13.8 million equivalent) from the IMF under the Compen-
satory Financing Facility in September 1980. As of May 1980, foreign exchange
reserves were equivalent to six months of imports.



- 3 -
10.       On March 31, 1978, the authorities replaced a complex system of mul-
tiple exchange rates and exchange and trade restrictions with a dual exchange
system. Transactions with India, which were virtually free from restrictions,
were unaffected by these changes. New treaties on trade and transit with
India were also concluded in March 1978. Under the dual exchange rate system,
Nepal maintains a basic rate of NRs 12.00 per dollar, with a second, premium
rate applying for all merchandise trade with third countries except for imports
of certain development goods. On February 21, 1980, the premium rate was
changed from NRs 16.00 per dollar to NRs 14.00 per dollar, but the exemption
was restricted to only imports of petrol and petroleum products, cement and
chemical fertilizers. These exchange rate adjustments involved an apprecia-
tion of about 14% for exports to third countries and an overall appreciation
of about 2% for imports from them. But this was partly offset by (i) with-
drawing the 12% duty on exports of raw jute; and (ii) raising import duties
on a wide range of imports from third countries. However, with the exception
of raw jute exports, earnings in domestic currency from exports to third
countries will decline, leading to a possible shift of some exports to India.
The overall trade balance is likely to be adversely affected by the recent
measures.
11.       The poor long-run performance of the economy is chiefly due to the
failure of agricultural production to keep pace with population growth. Over
the period 1967-77, foodgrain production grew at an average annual rate of
only 1.5%. Increases in the area under cultivation account for almost all of
this, since average yields rose by only 0.1% annually. Contribution of irri-
gation development has so far been limited. Only about 23% of the irrigable
area is provided with irrigation, and existing facilities are still poorly
utilized. In the past, insufficient attention has been paid to bringing water
down to the farm level and this has been compounded by inadequate support
services such as extension and research, timely supplies of improved seed and
fertilizer and other inputs, credit and farm-to-market roads. However, recent
major irrigation projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are
addressing these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches.
12.       In the Hills and Mountains, which contain only one-third of the
country's agricultural land and yet have nearly two-thirds of the population,
population pressures have pushed cultivation up steep hillsides and onto
marginal land; average yields have actually declined. Population density on
agricultural land in these areas is higher than in Bangladesh. Malnutrition
is acute; food production meets only two-thirds of minimum subsistence needs.
Because they have little to trade except their labor, one-third of the inhab-
itants of these Hill areas migrate seasonally to the Terai plains and northern
India for food and work. Since the early sixties, an estimated 400,000 have
migrated permanently, and there are signs that this exodus is accelerating.
13.       Economic policy making has been delayed by the political developments
of the past two years. These events culminated in the May 1980 referendum
which reaffirmed the existing political system, while allowing for suitable
reforms. A Constitutional Commission is expected to announce proposed reforms
shortly, possibly including direct election of members of parliament. These
political activities slowed down preparation of the Sixth Plan (1980/81-1984/85)
and the Plan is only now undergoing final review. However, the thrust of the



-4-
Plan, outlined in an earlier document, was endorsed by members of the Nepal
Aid Group at its January 31, 1980 meeting. It places highest priority on
developing agriculture, including revitalization of Hill food production to
meet local requirements. At the same time, since land holdings in the Hills
are too small to generate much more than subsistence needs, programs will be
started to encourage diversification into other activities such as small-scale
and cottage industries to supplement Hill incomes. For the Terai, the strat-
egy is to continue efforts to realize the Terai's considerable potential for
increasing production of foodgrains and cash crops. The irrigation infra-
structure is to be more fully utilized and improvements to extension services
and associated inputs concentrated on those areas with irrigation facilities.
Reafforestation programs are given priority in order to provide fuelwood and
fodder as well as to reduce soil erosion.
14.       While these efforts in the directly productive sectors merit urgent
attention, Nepal faces similar challenges in developing its human resources.
Although curbing population growth requires major actions, selective programs
in education and health can greatly assist population planning as well as
alleviate human suffering and lay the basis for future increases in productiv-
ity. The Government's strategy recognises that the approach must be selective
since programs for meeting basic needs generally have only a long-term impact
on manpower development but divert resources away from activities more directly
and immediately related to production. Increasing foodgrains production will
meet the major need of improved nutrition. Better and more readily available
supplies of drinking water and fuelwood will meet other needs, while also
freeing labor currently spent in their collection. Basic health facilities
are to be expanded through integrated community health posts, while in educa-
tion, stress is placed on improving the quality of primary and adult vocational
education. Family planning programs are to be stepped up. The other basic
need to be met in rural areas is improved transport, and the Sixth Plan will
include programs to improve trails, tracks, and suspension bridges.
15.       For Nepal to establish a basis for more rapid and sustained growth,
the structure of its economy will need to change since its present dependence
on agriculture limits the economy's overall growth potential to about 4% per
year. Tourism offers perhaps the best near-term potential for increased
foreign exchange earnings; however, efforts are needed to reduce its capital
intensity, strengthen linkages with other local industries and extend its
benefits beyond the Kathmandu Valley. Hydropower also offers some possibil-
ities, but neither it nor tourism will ever be substantial generators of
employment. In the long run, Nepal must diversify and develop its industrial
sector. Obviously, efforts in this sector must be on a highly selective basis.
The multiplicity and complexity of the constraints to industrial development,
including the lack of natural resources and a skilled labor force, as well as
Nepal's small domestic market and landlocked position will nullify any general-
ized approach. Public enterprises need to operate more efficiently, village
and cottage industries should be promoted. Beyond this, joint ventures with
India, for example, as in cement production, may be attractive. The precon-
ditions for industrialization must be established in the near future or there
is a danger that Nepal will always be struggling to move its economy beyond
subsistence. These include providing financial incentives, research and
extension services on the technical, financial and marketing aspects of



- 5 -
enterprise, and the upgrading of manpower skills in the areas where Nepal
may have a comparative advantage.
16.       Nepal has made significant progress in mobilizing domestic resources
to support its development efforts, considering the extreme poverty, low degree
of monetization, and fragmented nature of the economy. Revenue grew at 16% a
year in current terms between 1969/70 and 1978/79, increasing from 5% of GDP
to about 9% during this period. Over the same period, the Government was able
to maintain savings on current account in excess of 2% of GDP, a good achieve-
ment for a country in Nepal's economic position. However, this excellent
record is now in jeopardy. Political developments led to difficulties in
*         collecting income and land taxes in 1978/79, but this was more than offset
by increased collections from other sources. However, custom duties, which
generate about one-third of total revenues, were lowered in the 1979/80 budget
contributing to the 3.5% decline in overall revenues in that year. To reverse
the deterioration, the 1980/81 budget raised various taxes including import
duties, sales tax, income tax on private businesses, tourist taxes (hotel and
airport taxes, and visa fees), and fees for extraction of forest products.
These measures are expected to generate revenues equal to about 13% of total
1979/80 revenues which, together with better implementation of existing taxes,
should be sufficient for overall revenues to exceed 9% of GDP in 1980/81.
17.       Foreign assistance has been a decisive factor in Nepal's development.
During the Fifth Plan, foreign financing equalled about 45% of development
expenditures. In view of the limited prospects for increased domestic resource
mobilization, foreign financing requirements may be about 60% of planned Sixth
Plan development expenditures, which amount to about NRs 10 billion or over $800
million at 1979/80 prices. Aid commitments need to average about $225 million
annually during 1980-82 compared with $160 million during 1977-79. However,
even this level of foreign assistance would not provide the Government with
sufficient resources to meet increasing consumption demands. Additional aid,
either through financing a higher proportion of total project costs or in the
form of commodity assistance, could provide budgetary support to meet pressing
recurrent expenditure requirements, particularly in the social sectors. The
Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976 to assist in the overall coordination of
financial and technical assistance efforts. The Group has met three times at
plenary meetings under the Chairmanship of the Bank to discuss overall external
assistance needs as well as at the local level in Kathmandu to discuss and
coordinate strategy. At the latest plenary meeting, which was held in Paris
on January 31, 1980, and was attended by representatives from eight countries
and six international organizations, Nepal received aid indications exceeding
US$200 million equivalent.
18.       Although foreign aid commitments and disbursements grew by over
25% annually during the Fifth Plan period, only 40% of disbursements included
in the Government's budget were from foreign borrowing, the remainder being
grants. As of December 31, 1979, official foreign debt outstanding was only
$125 million, of which $106 million was due to multilateral agencies. These
loans were obtained on a highly concessional basis and the grant element of
total aid remains in excess of 90%. As a result, debt service payments were
only US$3.1 million during 1978/79, equivalent to less than 2% of exports of
goods and services.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
19.       Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit
of US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then,
22 additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to
Nepal to US$267.6 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide variety
of sectors. Six of these sectors account for 83% of IDA credits by amount:
irrigation ($75.0 million for 5 projects); water supply and sewerage ($46.8
million for 3 projects), power ($40.8 million for 1 project); telecommunica-
tions ($21.7 million for 3 projects); highways ($19.2 million for 2 projects);
and rural development ($19.0 million for 2 projects). The remaining $45.1
million of IDA assistance has been for one project in each of the areas of
settlement, technical education, tourism, technical assistance, forestry,
grain storage and industrial development financing. The proposed credit would
be the third in FY81, bringing the total amount of IDA assistance to Nepal to
US$271.1 million equivalent, net of cancellations. No Bank loans have been
made to Nepal.  IFC made its first investment in Nepal ($3.1 million) in a
hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank Group operations as of October 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of
ongoing IDA projects. It shows certain delays in the implementation of these
projects, particularly during the initial periods. These delays have been
largely due to Nepal's limited technical and managerial capabilities. In
order to assist Nepal in coping with this constraint, considerable technical
assistance is being given by Bank Group staff, including our Resident Mission
in Kathmandu. As a result, improvement in the rate of disbursements is being
realized. During FY80, US$22.6 million equivalent were disbursed compared to
US$42.8 million equivalent disbursed during the entire previous nine years.
20.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level
compared to the country's need for external assistance. The international
community has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development and,
to date, shortage of funds has not been a bottleneck. The main constraint on
the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive capacity,
affecting the pace of project preparation and implementation. The Bank is
assisting the Government in project preparation through the Technical Assis-
tance Credit (Credit No. 659-NEP) and by acting as Executing Agency for a
number of technical assistance projects financed by UNDP. The Bank Group
has also addressed the problem of absorptive capacity through its role in
organizing the Aid Group for Nepal (para 17).
21.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly con-
necting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in irrigation, Hill food production, agricultural
extension, cottage industry, technical education and power is under way.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture is the key sector for Nepal's economic development:
farm production and related activities contribute more than 60% of GDP, pro-
vide almost 90% of employment and about 75% of merchandise exports, mostly
foodgrains2 jute and oilseed. Only about one sixth of Nepal's gross area of
141,000 km is cultivable. Foodgrains account for about 90% of cropped area,
rice being the most important (50%), followed by maize, wheat, other cereals
and pulses. The rest of the cropped area is under oilseeds, jute, potato,
tobacco, sugarcane and horticultural crops. Growth of agricultural production
(average 1.1% per year 1970-77), which is largely determined by foodgrain
performance, has not kept up with population growth. Growth has primarily
come from area expansion since yields have largely stagnated (para 11).
23.       The Government has had to moderate its earlier approach to regional
specialization according to comparative advantage (foodgrains in Terai vs.
horticulture, tea and livestock in Hills) in view of the need for a proper
foodbase in the Hills. The role of the Terai will continue to be the genera-
tion of domestic and exportable foodgrain surpluses as a resource for further
development. Since area expansion is limited in the Terai, emphasis will be
given to increasing yields, mainly by an expansion and upgrading of existing
irrigation infrastructure and inputs. Initial results from the IDA-assisted
Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone) indicate that substantial yield
improvements can be expected from improved irrigation water supply combined
with increased agricultural inputs and effective extension services.
24.       Agricultural Institutions.  Apart from the Ministry of Forest, the
Government has three major Ministries dealing with agriculture: the Ministry
of Food and Agriculture (MFA); the Ministry of Land Reform; and the Ministry
of Water Resources. Irrigation projects are the responsibility of the Ministry
of Water Resources which includes the Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and
Meteorology (DIHM). MFA includes the Department of Agriculture (DA), and the
Department of Food and Agriculture Marketing Services. MFA also has overall
responsibility for a number of public sector corporations which include the
Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC), Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
(ADBN) and Nepal Food Corporation. In general, like many other government
agencies, agricultural institutions suffer from lack of trained staff.
25.       Agricultural Extension, Research and Training.  The DA's Division
of Agricultural Extension and Training is responsible for operation of agri-
cultural extension services through offices located at the regional and
district levels. Effectiveness of extension services is hampered by inadequate
staff training and lack of communication, transportation, and housing facili-
ties at the village level. Research is carried out in a research complex near
Kathmandu and in 12 smaller stations dispersed throughout Nepal. However, the
linkage between research and extension activities is poor and the products of
research are not always directly well disseminated to farmers. Training also
suffers from shortage of experienced instructors and training facilities.
IDA's financing of intensified and reorganized extension services in seven
Terai districts under ongoing irrigation projects (para 32) promises to yield



favorable results, as already noticeable in the Parsa district where the
Training and Visit system is being implemented. A project for agricultural
extension and research for eight more districts in the Terai is being prepared.
26.       Agricultural Inputs Supply.  AIC is mainly responsible for the
marketing of fertilizers, seed, pesticides, and agricultural equipment.
AIC distributes these inputs to cooperative societies (Sajhas), village
committees, other public organizations, and private traders, fixes retail
prices for all inputs, and is responsible for input storage. Provision
of inputs is coordinated with District Agricultural Officers, ADBN and
cooperatives. The activities of AIC have been rapidly expanding and are
fairly satisfactory.
27.       Agricultural Credit.  ADBN is the main source of institutional credit
in agriculture; two commercial banks play only a minor role in this sector.
ADBN extends short, medium and long-term loans to individual farmers, groups
of farmers, cooperative societies and village committees. Overall lending has
increased considerably over recent years, and now covers about 25% of total
agricultural credit needs. ADBN's financial position is reasonably sound,
although overdues run at about 24% of loans outstanding. Repayment performance
of cooperative societies has even been poorer. The Asian Development Bank has
been assisting ADBN in improving its procedures. The technical assistance
needs of ADBN would be further studied and partly provided under a component
in a proposed agricultural extension and research project (para 21).
28.       Cooperative Movement.  Since 1976, the cooperative movement has
been reorganized under the name Sajha. In order to reach more farmers and
mobilize local savings, the Government converted existing "guided" societies
(under ADBN management) and village committees into village cooperative
societies, under the direction of village panchayats. They are to provide
credit, inputs, marketing services and some basic consumer goods. They
function as collective borrowers towards ADBN and as agents of national
trading organizations.
29.       Marketing and Transportation.  Domestic marketing services in Nepal
are not well developed, due to the lack of roads, telecommunications systems,
and warehouses. Since the late 1960s, several public sector organizations
have been established for marketing major farm products. These include the
Nepal Food Corporation (NFC), Rice Export Companies (RECs), National Trading
Ltd., and Jute Development and Trade Corporation. Officially, export of rice
was exclusively the responsibility of RECs, which are joint ventures with the
private sector traditionally involved in rice trading. In practice, however,
since the Indian border is open, extensive free trading occurs, for which no
reliable data are available. The Government has recently liberalized export
trading for foodgrains, and plans to place control of public sector domestic
and export trading in NFC and strengthen it so that it may be better able to
promote government foodgrain policies. The Grain Storage Project (Credit
No. 1062-NEP) is assisting the Government in this effort.



-9-
The Irrigation Sub-Sector
30.       Water Resources Utilization.  Nepal has abundant water resources,
including3major rivers with annual average discharges totaling about 150
billion m and capable of irrigating 6 to 8 million ha. However, there are
only about 1.3 million ha of land suitable for surface irrigation in the
country. Exploitable groundwater resources, largely concentrated in the Terai,
could provide tubewell irrigation for about 0.4 to 0.6 million ha. Total
irrigation potential is, therefore, less than 2 million ha. Utilization of
water resources for irrigation is limited by several factors: (i) there are
few reliable sources of perennial surface water for year-round irrigation
except for the eight major rivers 1/; (ii) these large rivers are costly to
develop, particularly for relatively small command areas typical in the
Nepalese Terai; (iii) heavy sedimentation in riverbeds creates considerable
problems in construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation systems;
and (iv) power supplies to energize tubewells are severely restricted in
extent and amount. At present, only about 300,000 ha (about 23% of the
potential surface irrigable area) are provided with some form of irrigation,
of which about 150,000 ha are under public schemes.
31.       Irrigation Development.  Before the launching of Nepal's first
Development Plan in 1957, few substantial irrigation works had been undertaken
by the Government. The main reasons were limited financial resources and
shortage of trained manpower. Nevertheless, with schemes such as the 11,000
ha Chandra Project (1922), farmers' stream diversions, bucket-lift, and other
traditional methods, irrigation had been provided to an area of some 154,000
ha, mainly in the Hills. During the First and Second Development Plans (1957-
62 and 1962-65 respectively), the Government's irrigation programs were con-
centrated on building medium sized systems (15-16,000 ha) in the Terai. In
the Third Plan (1965-70), however, a program was launched for construction of
minor irrigation projects, mostly in the Terai, to encourage greater farmer
participation and to expand irrigated areas rapidly. Due to poor investi-
gations and construction, many of these projects fell short of expectations,
which resuited in discouraging response from farmers. The Government switched
back in the Fourth Plan (1970-75) to a policy of constructing medium-sized
irrigation projects. In keeping with the priority given to quick yielding
investments, the emphasis shifted in the Fifth Plan (1975-80) towards the
completion of ongoing schemes and new investment in projects with short
gestation periods and high returns, including groundwater development for
irrigation by tubewells. The target was to bring 146,000 ha under irrigation
in addition to the present 300,000 ha. However, it is estimated that by the
end of the Fifth Plan, only about 100,000 ha will have been completed. The
main reasons for the shortfall are (i) the shortage of technical personnel
for design, construction, supervision and project management; (ii) chronic
shortages in cement and steel; (iii) weak local civil works contractors; and
1/   The Mahakali (Sarda), Karnali, Babai, Rapti, Narayani (Gandak), Bagmati,
Kosi and Kankai Rivers.



- 10 -
(iv) slow procurement due to the country being landlocked and to administra-
tive bottlenecks. Bank Group strategy is to assist the Government in resolv-
ing these constraints through financial and technical assistance, including
substantial training components. Preliminary targets set for the Sixth Plan
(1980-85) call for the irrigation of 40% of agricultural land in the Terai
and 12% in the Hills by 1990 (presently 12% in the Terai and much less in
the Hills). The irrigation infrastructure is to be more fully utilized and
extension services and associated inputs to irrigated areas to be enhanced
(para 13).
32.       Bank Group's Participation in Irrigation Development.  The Bank
Group is presently involved in five ongoing irrigation projects and two rural
development projects with irrigation components. The Bank has also acted as
Executing Agency for UNDP in the preparation of feasibility studies under the
Major Irrigation (Far West Region) Project. The Birganj Irrigation Project
(Narayani Zone) (Cr. 373-NEP, US$6.0 M, 1973), under construction since 1974,
was originally designed to improve and upgrade 28,700 ha of its command area.
In November 1977, the Government and the Association agreed to reduce the
scope of the project and limit the works to 16,000 ha of the command area so
as to accommodate a 50% cost overrun during 1974-77. After a slow start due
to procurement and staffing difficulties, project implementation has steadily
improved. All civil works and equipment contracts have been awarded, and
construction is about 95% complete. The executing agency, the Narayani Zone
Irrigation Development Board, is operating effectively. Crop yields achieved
under irrigated conditions are promising. Water charges are being levied in
areas reached by irrigation, and farmers' acceptance is satisfactory. The
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981. The Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development (Stage II) Project (Cr. 856-NEP, US$14.0 M, 1978) is also proceed-
ing satisfactorily. Construction works are ongoing in five of the six irri-
gation blocks. The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0
M, 1976), the first full scale tubewell project in Nepal provides for construc-
tion of 63 deep wells, detailed development of the 7,500 ha command area and
agricultural supporting services. Actual work on the project started in July
1977. More than 40 tubewells have been constructed, and drilling is to be
completed by March 1981. All 63 wells are to be provided with pumps and
motors by March 1982. Progress in irrigation works has been slow due to
shortage and poor performance of local contractors. However, all civil works
contracts have been awarded and the project is scheduled for completion by
June 1982. The Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Development Project (Cr. 812-NEP,
US$30.0 M, 1978) is designed to restore and improve the existing canal system
throughout 66,000 ha, involving, inter alia, river training and sediment control
works. Minor distribution canals to 10 ha groups of farms would be planned
for 18,000 ha and implemented for 6,400 ha. A contract for the first 850 ha
of command area development has been awarded and rehabilitation work on the
main canal is on-going. An EEC Special Action Credit of about US$4.0 million
equivalent was approved in June 1979 to help finance part of the Government's
share of the local cost. Investigations for the design of river training
works to improve the water supply to the main canal intake have reached a
crucial stage. Unfortunately, no technical solution is also economically
viable. The only available option is regular maintenance to keep the supply
channel open. This would not affect the overall viability of the project.
The Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage 1) (Cr. 1055-NEP, US$16.0 M, 1980)



- 11 -
provides for the rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing irrigation
system (3,400 ha) on the left bank of the Mahakali River in the Far Western
Region and extending it to 6,600 ha net. The project is also designed to
improve drainage conditions, provide a complete public access road network,
all weather service roads, intensify agricultural extension and research, and
train students in engineering and agriculture through fellowships abroad. A
component in the First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP, US$8.0 M, 1976)
provides for improvement of small scale Hill irrigation schemes and development
of a high lift scheme on the Batar plateau in Nuwakot District for a total of
approximately 1,900 ha. Construction of the major works for the Batar plateau
(approximately 200 ha) has been completed, and satisfactory progress has been
achieved for the development of the small scale schemes. The Second Rural
Development Project (Cr. 939-NEP, US$11.0 M, 1979) also includes a component
for the improvement of small scale Hill irrigation schemes in the Mahakali
Zone. Implementation of this project is in an early stage.
The Need for Technical Assistance
33.        Shortage of technical manpower is a severe constraint on Nepal's
development. This constrains the Government's ability to prepare, implement
and operate projects, and substantial technical assistance is required to
resolve this constraint. In view of the high priority given to irrigation
and the large number of projects being prepared and being implemented the
absorptive capacity constraint is increasingly felt in this sector. Available
staff is very thinly spread over the various regions, divisions, and projects,
and is hardly sufficient to meet present needs. The shortage of engineers
will be a major constraint in implementing the irrigation projects under the
Sixth Five Year Plan. For the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Develop-
ment Project, DIHM was unable to provide the necessary design staff and local
consulting firms were recruited to work together with project staff and
project consultants in order to meet manpower requirements. The use of local
consultants has been successful and is expected to strengthen the development
of local consulting firms. In addition, any completed project would require
about as much staff for operation and maintenance as is now available for
construction. Hence, the number of irrigation engineers in the country has
to be increased drastically if irrigation development is to be accelerated.
IDA and other donors include training components in most projects in Nepal.
Under the Mahakali Irrigation Project (Cr. 1055-NEP), about 80 Nepalese
students are to be trained abroad in civil and mechanical engineering and
agriculture. In the meantime, local capabilities have to be supplemented by
technical assistance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.        In 1976, an IDA mission identified the Babai Irrigation project
to irrigate some 13,500 ha (net) of land on the east bank of the Babai River.
A feasibility study, financed by UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency,
was completed by Tahal Consulting Engineers (Israel) in November 1978. Subse-
quently, the Government redefined the project area and additional technical
studies were needed and financed from the Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. No.



- 12 -
659-NEP). A supplementary report was completed by Tahal in June 1980. The
studies included the preparation of preliminary engineering designs. A Bank
mission visited Nepal in January 1980 to prepare the proposed engineering
project which would advance project preparation to tendering stage. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D.C., in December 1980.  The Nepalese delegation
was led by Dr. T.N. Pant, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Food and Agriculture.
A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
The Babai Project Area
35.       The Babai project area, covering some 20,000 ha gross, is located
in the Far West Region of Nepal, in the Bardia District of the Bheri zone
(Map IBRD 15208). Gularia, the District's headquarters, is located west of
the Babai River. Since there is no bridge over the Babai river, movement
of goods and people to and from the project area is more oriented towards
Nepalganj, the Region's headquarters (Map IBRD 15209), from which access to
the project area is only possible in the dry season, as there is also no bridge
over the Man River. Completion of the East-West Highway will improve access
to the project area and link it to the Central Region of Nepal. The Highway
now ends east of the Man River, while, within the project area, there is only
a network of badly rutted cart tracks.
36.       Climatic conditions in the project area are sub-tropical, mean
monthly temperatures range from 14.7 C in January to 30.6 0C in May.  The
monsoonal rainfall pattern varies distinctly between the wet season (June-
October) and the dry season (November-May). Of the average annual rainfall
of 1,335 mm about 90% falls in the wet season. Assured water control is
essential for year round crop production to meet shortages in the dry season
and to drain excess run-off in the wet season.
37.       Most of the area is flat and forms a gently inclined plain with
a gradient of about 1%. A reconnaissance soil survey and land classifica-
tion was undertaken as part of the feasibility study.
38.       The source of water supply for the project area is the Babii river
which has mean monthly flows ranging from an absolute minimum of 3 m /sec
in May to a maximum of over 100 m /sec in August. The Babai River flows into
India where it discharges into the Karnali River. The Karnali River is one
of the region's major rivers with a substantial dry season flow, compared to
which the dry season flow of the Babai is minimal. Additionally, water flows
in the Babai downstream of the proposed diversion originate mostly from
groundwater regeneration. India is diverting water from the Karnali at a
barrage upstream of its confluence with the Babai. The project would have
no significant effect on the flow of water downstream.
39.       Farmers' built intakes and canals irrigate at present about 7,000
ha in the project area. In addition, some 2,000 ha are irrigated from small
streams crossing the area from the foothills.  About 4,000 ha of the eastern
part of the project area is still under rainfed cultivation. Present crop-
ping intensity is 129% (135% in the irrigated areas and 116% in the rainfed
areas). Crops grown during the wet season are paddy (70%), maize (19%) and



- 13-
vegetables (1%); during the dry season, wheat (14%), pulses (13%), oilseed
(11%) and vegetables (1%). The most common cropping sequences are (i) paddy-
wheat; (ii) paddy-pulses; and (iii) maize-oilseed. Present yields are low:
paddy, 1.9 mt/ha; maize, 1.4 mt/ha; wheat, 1.1 mt/ha; and mustard, 0.6 mt/ha.
Improved irrigation and drainage would greatly enhance agricultural production.
The Babai Irrigation Project
40.       The Babai irrigation project would provide the necessary irrigation,
drainage and road infrastructure for 13,500 ha (net) of land in order to increase
agricultural production and farmers' incomes in the area, and accelerate rural
development. It is estimated that project works would take approximately five
years. Upon completion, annual production of various foodgrains would increase
by some 19,000 tons (from the present 14,000 tons). Of this increase, rice and
wheat would contribute over 80%. New cash crops such as cotton and groundnuts
would be introduced on a small scale.
41.       The major civil works for the Babai project would be (i) a diversion
weir on the Babai River upstream of Bargadaha, approximately 240 m long and 4 m
high; (ii) main canals with a total length of 38 km; (iii) irrigation laterals
(150 km) and sub-laterals conveying irrigation water to tertiary units, approx-
imately 40-50 ha in size; (iv) tertiary channels within the tertiary units
providing irrigation water to farm groups of 7-10 ha; (v) major and tertiary
drains; and (vi) the construction of an interconnected network of all weather
public roads and canal service roads.
42.        Future access to the project area would be provided by the East-
West Highway. A pre-feasibility study for this road between Kohalpur (north
of Nepalganj) and Mahend,ranagar in the Far Western Region was completed by
Norconsult A. S. in November 1978. The study considered two alternative align-
ments for the road section passing through the Babai project area. HMGN has
recently selected the northern alignment which crosses the Babai river at the
proposed diversion weir site, so that a combined weir and bridge would be
constructed. This alignment also follows for some distance the alignment
of the main canal. UNDP is financing a feasibility study, detailed designs
and tender documents for the section of the road from the Babai River to
Mahendranagar. Consultants for this study started field work in November
1980. Since close coordination would be required between the design of the
road and the Babai irrigation project, the consulting firm to be recruited for
the Babai project would prepare the detailed designs and tender documents for
the 30 km stretch of the East-West Highway between the Babai and Man Rivers.
43.       The project area overlaps the 5,700 ha UNDP-supported Khumber Cotton
Project.  Most of this area is still covered by low value unproductive forest
which would have to be cleared. HMGN is considering the development of 2,400
ha of this area for cotton cultivation on rolling uplands and under rainfed
conditions, and settle farm families in the area. These farmers would also
receive 2,400 ha of lowlands for paddy cultivation which would receive irriga-
tion facilities under the Babai project. Since 1977, UNDP has assisted HMGN
with a pilot scheme in the Khumber area for cotton cultivation and the tech-
nical viability of cotton cultivation under rainfed conditions has been



- 14 -
established. However, no progress has yet been made with the establishment of
the necessary institutions, nor have settlement plans been finalized. In addi-
tion, HMGN has not yet decided whether to proceed with the implementation of
the Khumber project. As the layout for the irrigation and road systems for
the 2,400 ha of lowlands would have to be coordinated with the settlement and
road plans for the overall Khumber area, the Government would, not later than
June 30, 1981 decide on the future of the 2,400 ha of lowlands and whether
this area should be developed as part of a settlement scheme for the cotton
project, or as part of a settlement scheme for paddy cultivators and would
notify the Association of any institutional arrangements made or to be made
for forest clearing and settlement of the Khumber area (Section 4.02(a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
The Proposed Engineering Project
44.       The purpose of the project would be to prepare detailed designs and
tender documents for the Babai Irrigation Project and for the 30 km stretch of
the East West Highway. A consulting firm would assist DIHM to undertake this
work which would involve (i) aerial photography, ground control and topograph-
ical maps; (ii) topographical surveys along alignments of irrigation and drain-
age channels and roads (including the East West Highway section), and site
surveys for major structures; (iii) additional geological investigations
(particularly at the weir site), surveys for the location of construction
materials, infiltration tests, hydrological surveys, laboratory tests and if
necessary a hydraulic model test for the headworks and the desilting facili-
ties; (iv) a semi-detailed soil survey and classification of the soils for
irrigation; (v) final design and tender documents for the irrigation project
and the East West Highway section (including bridge over the Man River); and
(vi) the prequalification of contractors, the issue of tender documents and
evaluation of bids. A detailed socio-economic benchmark survey would also be
undertaken to establish a data base for appraisal of the irrigation project,
for its design and for assessment of its future benefits. DIHM is short of
engineering equipment and vehicles; the necessary equipment would therefore
be provided under the project. There are no accommodation facilities in the
project area for use by the consultants and DIHM staff during field work.
Camps and quarters would therefore be constructed under the project. The
proposed engineering project would be completed over two to three years.
45.       The executing agency would be the DIHM. DIHM would appoint a Project
Manager, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association,
to be responsible for the implementation of the project (Section 3.02 of the
draft DCA). A roads engineer would be deputed from the Roads Department to
DIHM to be responsible for the design of the 30 km section of the East-West
Highway (Section 3.01(b) of the draft DCA). DIHM would recruit a consulting
firm satisfactory to the Association to assist in conducting the surveys and
preparing the detailed designs and tender documents (Section 3.03(a) of the
draft DCA). DIHM has already received proposals from a short list of consul-
tants acceptable to the Association. DIHM has the capability to supervise the
engineering contract. DIHM would provide suitably qualified and experienced
staff to work with the consultants (Section 3.01(b) of the draft DCA). In
view of the inadequacy of local facilities and qualified staff, most of the
design work would be undertaken in the consultants home office and two Nepalese



-15 -
engineers would work with and be trained by the consultants during the design
phase. This would speed up preparation and reduce costs. Related costs would
be financed from the credit. Copies of documents prepared by the consultants
for the project including reports, drafts, plans, designs, specifications,
work schedules and estimates of costs would be furnished to HMGN with a copy
to the Association (Section 3.03(c) of the draft DCA). Upon completion of the
engineering services DIHM would consult the Association on the recommendations
and conclusions relating to the project (Section 3.03(d) of the draft DCA).
Project Costs, Financing and Disbursements
46.       The estimated total cost of the engineering project is US$3.55 mil-
lion equivalent, including contingencies and approximately US$50,000 equivalent
of taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component would amount to US$2.58
million equivalent or about 75% of total costs. Details of project costs are
included in the Credit and Project Summary. The main cost item (US$1.3 M) is
for the services of engineering consultants, comprised of approximately 95
man-months of professional services in the consultants Head Office and 55 man-
months in the field at man-month costs of respectively US$7,500 and US$10,500
(including salaries, overheads, overseas allowances and international travel,
but excluding reimbursable items required for the assignment). In addition,
the following items would be included in the consultancy contract: aerial
photography, geotechnical investigation of the weir site, mapping and model
testing (US$550,000) and the procurement of field equipment (US$500,000). As
required field equipment should be procured as soon as possible in order to
avoid delays with the field work, the consultants would, as part of their
contractual obligations, procure the equipment through international shopping
procedures satisfactory to the Association. Construction of camps and quarters
(US$250,000) for the consultants and Nepalese staff and labor would be carried
out through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, or by force account.
47.       UNDP has indicated that it has no funds in its program to finance
the proposed engineering project before the beginning of 1982. In order not
to delay implementation of the irrigation project, to which the Government
attaches high priority, the Government has requested IDA financing.  In view
of the Government's limited capacity to raise resources (para 17 above), the
proposed credit would finance the total project cost net of taxes and duties.
Disbursements would be made against: (a) 100% of expenditures for civil works
*         carried out by force account and 95% of expenditures for civil works carried
out by contract; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipment and 75%
of local expenditures for other equipment procured locally; (c) 100% of
salaries and operating expenses; and (d) 100% of expenditures for consultants
services. Disbursements for construction of camps and quarters, salaries and
wages for Nepalese staff and labor and other local operational cost would be
made against statements of expenditure certified by the Project Manager.
Retroactive financing, up to US$300,000, would be undertaken for the construc-
tion of camps and quarters, since these facilities have to be completed before
the consultants can start their field work.



- 16 -
Reporting and Accounting
48.       DIHM would maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
engineering credit and to reflect project expenditures (Section 4.01(a) of the
draft DCA). DIHM would set up a special project account for the project and
have this account audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association. Within nine months of the end of each fiscal year it would
furnish its audited financial statements to the Association (Section 4.01(c)
of the draft DCA).
Justification and Risks
49.       The major benefit of the proposed project would be to enable the
Government to prepare the Babai Irrigation Project for tendering. When
completed the irrigation project would provide farmers with a more reliable
supply of water, reduce dependence on erratic monsoon rainfalls and increase
the incentives for higher input application and adoption of advanced farming
practices. As a result, cropping intensity and yields would improve consider-
ably, and additional employment opportunities would be created for family
workers on the farm and for landless families. Foodgrain production would be
increased to provide, apart from better nutrition, a surplus for export and/or
distribution to food deficit areas in Nepal. Introduction of new cash crops
would diversify the agricultural spectrum and provide for additional foreign
exchange earnings or savings. At full development production of foodgrains is
expected to increase by some 19,000 tons, equivalent to an overall increase of
140%. Cash crops, which are of little importance at present would increase
from a gross value of about NRs 35 million to about NRs 60 million, mostly
through introduction of new crops (cotton and groundnut). The engineering
project faces no special risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
51.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 11, 1980



-18-
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                     Page  1  of  5  pages
NEPAL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/-
TOTAL             140.8                                 MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AQ ICULTURAL       40. 1              1960  A     1910 A ESTIMATE A         ASLA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    40.0        60.0      120.0               197.9                894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(UILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        5.0         15.0      11.0               166.0                 842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL .TATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       9.3         11.4       13.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3.1           3.9       4.8                20.8                  39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IF5 YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MIILLIONS)                         46.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. FM.                        66.0         81.0      97.0               193.2                 376.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    243.0         286.0     339.0               409.6                2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          40.3         42.0      42.4                42.0                  40.4
15-64 YRS.                          57.0         55.0      54.6                55.0                  56.2
65 TRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          3.0       3.0                 3.0                   3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.1         2.0       2.6                 2.2                   2.4
URBAN                               6.5          4.3       5.0                 3.9                   4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.0        45.0      45.0                37.4                  28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       29.0        23.0      21.0                14.6                   7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0         3.0        3.2                2.6                   1.9
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         37.4     138.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           0.7.      4.3L               15.6                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          106.0        101.0      91.0               101.4                 116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPtY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RE(UIREMENTS)                    93.0         96.0      91.0                92.4                 108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0         51.0      48.0                49.8                  60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0          9.0       9.0                12.0                  18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       35.0        27.0      23.0                17.9                   5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0          41.0      43.0                50.8                  63.0
INFANr MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                        152.0/        ..                 ..                  52. 8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPUI1,TION)
TOTAL                                 ..         2.0       9.0                30.2                  42.4
URBAN                                *-         53.0      81.0                66.0                  62.1
RURAL                                ..           ..       5.0                20.0                  29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          1.0        1.0               17.7                  52.8
URBAN                                *-         14.0      14.0                71.3                  71.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 ..                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          72000.0      49770.OLe 35207.Le             6322.7                4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      68320.0 e 51222.0              9459.0                2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            8060.0       6750.0    6289.0              1758.4                 819.4
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               502.9
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..            10524.1 
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..         ..                 ..                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE 012E OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.5
URBAN                               5.4           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE YUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                               2.0           ..
RL'RAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TG ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
UR8AN                              30.2           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



-19--                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
NEPAI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
-  KOST RECENT ESTIKA1E)-a
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCCttE
1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 10.0         26.0      71.0                 80.9                  98.6
HALE                  19.0        44.0      108.0                94.3                  99.2
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       32.0                66.7                  97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  6.0          9.0      14.0                26.6                   55.5
MALE                  11.0        15.0       23.0                34.8                  60.7
FEtALE                 2.0         3.0        5.0                18.2                  49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   0.2           6.0      22.0/f                9.9                  13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMMY                             33.0         22.0      31.0                41.1                   34.6
SECONDARY                          32.0         21.0      28.0                 20.5                  28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9.0k        14.3       19.2                40.9                  85.8
CONSUKPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.2          0.4        ..                  1.8                   9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          5.0      12.0                25.8                  118.9
TV RECElIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..                2.4                   39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.8          2.0        8.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         .. -.                                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4813.2       5566.2    6535.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.3         40.3      39.0                 29.4                  36.8
AGRICULTLRE (PERCENT)              94.6         93.9      93.0                 70.5                  51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.0          2.1       2.0                11.6                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                50.0         48.7      48.3                 37.9                  39.1
MALE                                 59.8         58.3      58.1                 51.3                  48.5
FEMALE                               40.2         39.2      38.5                 23.7                  29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         0.9        0.9                 1.2                   1.1
INCOhE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      95.0               107.8                     ..
RURAL                                ..           ..      45.0                 86.5                 192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCGCE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..      41.0                  ..                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0                 46.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      61.0                 51.7                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Ic   Government programs only;  Id 1971-73;  /c Pcr.onnel in gQver,uwext services onlly;  /f Upper s-.ondary
(grade 6-10) only; 8 1962.
April. 1980



-20-                                                                   ANNEX I
Dt?IRTIOMOF SCLALINDIAMRSPage   3   of   5    pages
Noe:Athecnh the  at                             4- rcofo  cecsgtrIly  jodged the meet  uthorltati-e to  rlae,It shud alo he acted that they mY cot beicer
M_all11oocp-bale  sa5  ofdthe lI.. of ettodardl rd deftaittocs  sod  -coPti ose- ty dltt'feret rootrlo  to ootleottoe tOe data. The dat   re   ccotees
oetd t  de-orib  orders or magnitude,  Wto-et  trecds, an  cha-t-tei. ceticmjor dirfer--e  :stees  ooria
The,o5setO'o  toece   for etchtaiarae pcsclattoe-ceet.td Jeoectoi  a-ae  es-Iodirc hOe exrem   oT-es of the toiatotr acd the  -oet Ppocated
ocuctoy  eeaoarr--o;.  SAtO is-  of dsta, groo,p ...rs-e  or el.   ttoto    orCptldcpo  litpreeai of  adloatoe  of Access. to water aod Eorta
itdtcao   _cahfc a.o  thectoo  to    gov re-oots.
IAJr. AlGA (thoossd  l~.k. )                                                                 c-c.. to Eoireha sioo-c   (es-net of roobto)-too    rc    c  rur.l
trc1-Tatc.lofcete  otpistg lad are, sd maccd caters,                                    floatr ofpol7        tnl   no   o - oa.   se-        d  yecrt  dsosle
Aerboitoon  -  ROt rectt eti-tat  of  -gtotr.ae   sd temperaily                      peocae    f their reepeotle   ool-          os   torret  Cipos.. ec  icob-de
or p -rsetly for -rops, patoces, es-ct coo Aittoho   a-des or to                          the -colleti- sod  .oosi    tch Or coti-t treatooct. or bor cerete
lIe fsIloo.                                                         and cas~~~~~~~~~~~W::te.-oter bry cae-o  ptem  or to   Ceo  pot pototec tad -aIi.c
tWO PflCAPfITA  9i~'  - lop per capita est-t.mtc  acort      sahe  prce *k                  Poscaltor7ytio-Ppalodrdo    ycrieo   roltgpplic
EiEiieby rce       oenr metod as World MUc  Atlas (1976-78  albqaiidfo   oidcl aetod at otes I -ylee.
2910  197, aid 17fldata.                                                             Pcpslattos-o - for R-og feooc-tpl.to   dortidd by cotro  peacticiog tale
,%:'.  r Ct.y ?ttFtcrt- Pro o2A - Anou - oesw-ptlos of oceoot1 eteog                        acd fesale godoat.  oto   eota.cre,ai   sbtc   ost
therml deletroolty) It kiticoyt   of coa  eqlsetPer capital i96o,                           sc"id rios     I,) di-cide  by tort  erponr,oar   f hoaptoat teds m laInei
ty                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ptolio acd peioate geea cd scialtod ho-tptal sod  -heboilitatin oc-ters.
1I70  se  1976 dot.
Koapitaleas  estt,ias,ct   -racetly ataffed by at LeLAst use phystsc.
PtPUttA'TTGN bin V!fA. zfAT:Z7lCS                                                              Utitblish-tts p-oidls peitripally  -ootota  -on   oe tot t-ltodet cora
7Tta   o aio         >-er   ilcs   As of Joly to 1960, 1970, acd                            hsapIttao      eo    icolods  -eths tod  -eot-a  -ct-o  tOt pe-onetly staffed
1977 Oats.                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a pftssyctca  (boa by a  ediva.. asistant, cors,  idoife, etc. i   offe
tirtsi Psolaton 'ecet oftota) -  ttc of orhbc  to total flccsiaticco                lA-patteot  -oowdatla cod protide alImited oseig  of medIcalfailitIe..
differet deficttoo  o  oroco  eeto siy tIect ocaptabblity of data             Odtsoocoh totl BeId - totl  water of to                   ot. too  ditobhogea from
s~i  otcitirs  190,1977, sd 1975 dota.                                              topiat  ddolddby tIe somi- or beds,
Pcowlti- tot to rear 002 - Correct ppcoistios projeotiocs ar  basedcc                 iXSfl
1975 total PopoItato by age med  -e  cod toclr oortodity swd fertility                Aer-ge Site of Htooehold (p--oi  co hooc-bold) - tota. ohao  sd  -orl 
este.'foeto   parastee  forsytlt  rates cosprioc of thre-                                  oooe.iol ...coisto of a group of toiloi   h. shar  tiots  qoate   o
,e_I. astoming life  -pe-t-no  at birthic-tcoisg cihoxott                               the.ir mo     .Iea..  A boade   orloger cay  oca  cot be icoloord to tOe
pee cptta1.00c  bevl, ad feesle life topeot-cy stahilicLo a5soscoid for sltalttotoa  pcpoes
77.5 years.  Thr,osete  for fertility rate abs har..             eelvl.Aeae oos  of icrsecpe  ro  -~ toa.  ora,sdrrl - Aeae o,                                           e
ssssing drolite  Ic feetility  -voodoo  to -om   leve  coo past                       of peeso... poe 0000 ic e.ll a-t-, so  roa-       copt        t itel-  doellitro,,
faiyecoioprform-. 0oihoc-ty is. then assiged ccc of these                      ' reprti-cty.  f.eriittg  esolIde  -o =-penot  tt'vtrs  c   --rpied ros
sine oc nteato-  of -Maslity cod fertility treede for proJecti-e                    AIlea,   t   lcrct   preto   oio                      tosci. orb,o  cod 0-cot  -  Coo-
picoposes.                                                            renticoal ~~~~~~~~~d-ciiIo   sol , itth ot  in ivis 5ateaa  p-rcetago  of
Sttai-ocary cocotios - Ia a stationary ppalati.tsheen is cc gro.tt                        total, ceha, sod rura  dacligs respevtiveIly.
ative the birth rat is equal to toe death rate, and also the age
at-oto-  -ecis coctact. This is cotieced otly aft., fertIlity rates                tEOlATIlt
deollce to tie  repIav-et l-o1 of oit cot reprodottic  rate, cost                     Adootod   -icoltet Ratios
sorb gteraluc of  cce   eobs It.-Itef neatly.  7he statitocary pop.-          Prioncoooy     total  ntesc  etl               Goose totl,  ole cod fosle enrol-
-at "ottis ae          titdc   hebcso  t.trprojected  hcaratrrioti-t                      ctofalus   icvpoty                    Iro -a  i       quose  of re.pootte- procavy
of the popolstit  istb  ya  2000, and the oste of doltose of fertility                    tocaeppslatloss; cortaly iooIodes -hild-e  eded 6-1l fea-  boo
rte to   , epcrrsee.sdjoated for differec   egh   f  rrs   Ocsts   -rtrorr     t
.ea statioct yroo-= oI   ic rco.nbd           y Te  oa   hee stattoas   posait--lero  cdo..tioce.....t.                       o  eoIeI10 pLooet  i_oPsc   'oils
.Pu.statto  frss                                                                            t.eoy  cot -ttlesi  o  fesoale - Computed to  ---o;  roooto
F., so. Xt.. - 0.1-yea  Pociatioc per aqicre kilomter (100 beotares) of                     edocoaiioceioee         t iet foor fer  of approvd pro-sttra!itt-othir;
totasae                                                                                   p-oidee g-cera  occaional, or tesottertraiste   iteivrtioso. f-   orl
Per so.ICm.sre:otutlla              d - Cmoeaseon  foe agrltoato..  land                    osoald  of 1.2 to 17 year  of age; -oerespod -c-v           - ocr ro  e  gI.-rIly
only.                                                                                     cvlodeo.
Poqiclatoc flo  Itrootore (cecosti -Chlldree (0lVsr- orieaefctiosa  enoiss   creso   ooor) - Votico ..Intitoo o,lv
15-t Yeao,cdrtre              5yassd oe)a  p -etages cIf aid-year                          toohsi-I,idoora,t  oile  pr_gono  ohloh operate. todepeIteol   rn
po.loItioc; 1900, I970, sod 1977 do.t                                                       deparimects of seodory bootitotlros.
Poccolaioc  Grr-i sh   reeb"t  - total -  cU_i estb racca  Cf total sAd-                    Plcpll-t     rrto-piso, acd --rodcoy - Cotal stodc-t   -soo.od is
Peilto   rtchPsr-eor   -  rin          -    1Oic    grostt  rates ef orhs             sycdigIos
poooit "o l',5-ooj  lod-72   acd 1970-75.                                          Odolt littr--y rate (p-ort) - Lite..atn  adolit  (atln to ma-d sod  oite)a
foods Pieth Rote  ocr-or-o so) _- tool Ice births per thousad of aid-                         ap-rrtag  of 'totl adult pop~Iiotto  se    ityear  sooer
yea  ppoott ,o17, 1970, -i 1977 octa.
Crude Death Rctr (rei ocadl - Ao-ncc death  per thooocd of mi-ea                        COffSftPrTfON
Go-c, flprodcotic Rae-hyr~e  ottr of .daoht-r  a  csI sil hear                     tetn    esta   ih    5b    sldeabol-cc     hearse  acd .ilitovy
ishro rea  epo t-_   peiod If sIc      W cprtMcoe  presec.t age-                   ehicle..
specific  fertil ity rates; oooab  flo-yea  a--rges  -ndig Ia 1960,                     Rtdto Reci-er  (err thoctod ppmcitirt(   All types rf re-ivers for rodlo
190 Lai bt h7dcca  ogeec  foohii pee  toot-cdof p-ottto   o  odsoniressd
pacily  iseiog- Ovrotre  ceoal. (thoonsods) - A-..oI c-ahe  of                      re-rieso   in cootries and te year-hs abeore tlotraio   of rad1io  sets  -o  Ic
aoetoeaof  irot-oooooidevices  -on doe     ,,-ice  of cat.ioa  fsily               effect; dsta for-      s  year  say sot be  -opara1l  slso-  s-t -c-nries
ploocio  ps-ogrs-s                                                                        aol`eIrhd ileoi-ng.
coe   f  hl-icarfg s   1 (5-o44ya    the ote itrth-oostr   devtce                   oieprtrcodppcoa                   coloe  oni-ossd TV r-oeIer  it   _tosi-s
to al otried  -cr  Wis am  ag  grap                                                       and so pear  shoe  egiotr_ti;.o  of Tv sect  o  it effr-..
FOOD AND _________                                                                            of  daldoeaoteat                 5-pr*rfed cc a perorcol pilicotooc
MIRde   '--ifo  0  rooooir     "otto (110071.120) - lodec of per  att                       deosted peiatily so ocodAr ce-aItot   It is coacilered to be  'doily"
anosP prdoroo  al  od  -o'oitfrs. Prodoction. ecIode sI                  daid             i   t  eersa   eatfotttrsse
feed and ts onai_dol year has Os   C-enditll te  rve  priemy goods                      Clr-  Ao.c.aI Atts-d-oo  or  C-rto        fa -     caned O  thecor-be  or t toast
(e.g  sagroco  teseod  f soga) ostoib ar  edible act Ioct .ta .  ..tteit             sold dsroc   h   ea,icasa   oaioo.  to oic-is sisema  cd mebtle
(e.g.evffe  sodtea  "y co  i.e).  docrrg.tt  produvtibo  of eahtooo                nis
is hase  on ostroi  treceProd-00r yrtceceIghta.
essegy  qoiolco   -foct  t'dtoplcos o-rt blai  it  .otey P-e caPita          Toto1 Labor Po-  (thuosessm) - ttrisysttee P-ros., ta-lding cree
-  per dcci.  Aoaiiable sopplira cveprtse do~~-tecti  p-dsrt  i, imports tees              fo-Ir  sod soceplocd hut  -ULdiog h-...sl-.. esodests, et -  eiii
eaports, and rbh-gee il to-1,h  Net-opplit  coclde ~  -tal fed, secds,                  is various  -ctries ar  so  -op-bsi..
q_stltlet oeed Ic fcod poo-ssnt, sd losses ir distelbotica. Reqipre-                Fe-al  (porc-i  - PF--le iab- -.brre as pretgof scial labor fo
setscee- t-ttr   by )A casd oc plyoologicol o-ds fr.  tor.al                          4crori-tor- oe t           6.-lbo  Oire  Is formon,  orestry, hostig sd
aciiyc0 trao  co-toe-isc  -ci' oserta1 teiertce  td  e~tgtt,                   fiohosg soperetag  of talabrorr.-
ag  ad  o   torboti-s  of-crttot cd tO1cacoc 10 p-rro  ro                            rotyoron)-  ao   oa.i   ilg  cnt octoos  e-ottr. iag ord
cast  at _hoocood lecr e'Itriroty, cae                                                                        do gao at  er.rato   of  "totl Io   fMo.-
Per rid St. -or-y of  re 'n,o -s  e  da) - Petalo contest of pee                        Pstrptt.   ce(cecs     to-oe,sdrsle-ieiiptoso
cpt.'tee -tos';Y of tIb" Poe on.  ri s,pply of food Ita otie-d ss                       cot-cy estee ar  -op-tds  oa,sle   o                    -l   oo   os   spr
aloe -fooirrete  ce  ll "oo tries rotabIsod hy SIN  p-ccde for a                  -ortage  of tota, asi  tod lk-tal  popoI.l-o of alt coc  reaperti-eLyo
atnmomalicovr o  tOgram   o .1tctstcot    per day cod .  gras  af                1900  t0,ad 19175 data.  'Tese ar  11.0' yartkiptoao     ratesrfet
scstsalsco foee proete, o  aitob  I gras  shudhInitroeo                           g-e        t -utr  of the poPLdhtit, cd long tier stro.  A fo  Letsc
5grm  ofaeitl p_t.iet  soIn avrge for tne acold, proposed by FAO                    Fcirt-ni Secetod-- Rlatir -Act  rf populaltion  tdrO   15 sd 65 cd ove  to
Ia the Third he,ld Frod  ory.heL-o   force. to age goostoco  15-64 years
No, -crits er tio 0-orrc tr- arite -Ji rut - PootrIl sopply af food NCNSRma
Chlld (ages 1--,1>rc tOy Ostoro  hoco                 - ci   deaths  e  thoassed           Pvts    fiits  eoe1th. is rash and hicnd) - R ..eteed by richest
ta age,-ot-o  I- paro, t  otolece  Icthis av trop: formastproo-            fratrret2   rvd,poet 20) p-rot, sod poorest cO perect
oplag. o_s,tr-e   data tooLe~d ter  tIre  stica.-                                         of houehldst.
Iiy,"Tfl                                                                                  FORGtr  TAsR,-F  crtM1
Ldic Ep,cottcy at birth_ t            Ae) - Aer     mache  of years sf tIre               tici-ot.   obo11.tlot   oes   c,eLcl               e  c-tit[L  - orhotr  and rural-
rcaaieic  at bieto  tOot.11.3  ad 1917.dat.                                   Abootote p-orety I.co.- loti   httcreIcl  oosoiameea
lafat Otefofty Ofe -ro  i. oor.A)-dr,o.I deaths of i.rtfai    nder M one         ctetlosaiIly adequate diet,pic  rase-tat -coe-sc  reqotoemea  ta cot
yea  rofcop-o tt--.          lc   b,rthe.afroco
saeatrct--s:ioaestetdsrbo   aeso  unttroctest,   E                                            : ioa  esci  coa   f  i  o" . r ut"  - Oris  lec   s  tr 0-    terra   ee
acid sctisr  seth  so prLrosther  ofP--re.prls  o1-atoa.I                            Esete  f-tusior '01   - hooo   --r t       y   .-er   rootJ ('   th i -.odo L-d
ac-otctsena   lt f-ontai t~'t etrofet lov-td  so rsie tKs                         rra -t Q. Ferret  cf ptpoino  ,ot tuoba  slo~L  rod;a ae -obtetoe
ooes  of toss ti-ode-  I  rura  ar... .....otl  a               Is,od  act
chat ste Io,oiO o.r  -esce  or c,4l tucet-id do ct. _sos toaeo   a                                                                Pioo tr an -A oist Coaftot
dsrprniepart tf the day ccfin      og  0  famiiy' a ester. seeds -ocml   analysts  n  PrQec Coiefparcoct



-21-
ANNEX I
Pa-g-e 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDTCATORS
CNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: Us$120 a/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH. 1965-78
(X, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       X
CNP at Market Prices                  1,633       100.0                     2.3
Gross Domestic Investment                147         9.0
Gross Domestic Saving                    33          2.0
Current Account Balance (exc.
grants)                               -47        -2.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                    82         5.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                   245        15.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added
Value Added               Labor Force b/           Per Worker
IJ5$ Mlln.     X           US$ Mln.       X               US$
Agriculture                             996        68.0             5.9       93.0              169
Industry                                132         9.0             0.1        2.0           1,320
Services                                337        23.0             0.3        5.0           1.123
Total/Average                    1,465       100.0            6.3      100.0              233
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.
Z of GDp
1976/77       1977/78       1978/79        1979/80       1978/79
Current Receipts                       1,302.2        1,559.3       1,811.9       1,747.6           8.4
Current Expenditures                     784.1          815.0       1.041.7       1,195.5           4.9
Current Surplus                          518.1          744.3         770.2         552.1           3.6
Capital Expenditure                    1,486.4        1,792.9       1,978.8       2,346.6           9.3
External Assistance (Net)                538.1          830.7         989.4       1,363.8           4.6
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
(mid-April)
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                       2,524      3,223      3,772      4,512      5,249
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  480        750        966      1,129      1,336
Bank Credit to Public Enterprise              567        511        869      1,080      1,156
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 716        864      1,072      1,332      1,849
Money and Quasi Money as x of GDP            14.5       18.7       19.3       21.1        ...
General Price Index (1973/74 = 100)         115.9      119.0      132.3      136.8      153.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                          -0.7        2.7       11.2        3.5       12.0 c/
Bank Credit to Government                    67.8       66.3       28.9       16.9       30.7 d/
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises           -0.4        -9.9       70.1       24.3       16.9 d/
Bank Credit to Private Sector                -8.6       20.7       24.1       24.3       35.3 d/
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period cov'nred.
a/ World Development Report 1980.
b/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
c/ Estimate.
d/ April 1980 vs. April 1979.
.. not available



-22-
ANXFX I
Pvge 5 of 5 pases
TLUPF PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BAlXNCE OF PATMENTS                                                                    MERCHAN; St EXPOR-S 197S/79 8/
USS Mbi7.       ,
1976177     1977/78      1Q78/79
(Millions V$)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                         93.9         88.8        108.6              Foodstuff 6 raw materials                 84.3        78.0
Imports, c.i.f. bt                        166.9        209.7       242.7               Manufacturts                              23.8        20.0
Trade Balance                       -73.0        120.9       -134.1                   Total                                108.1      100.0
Services, net                              39.4         47.6        64.9
of which:  Tourism                       23.0         30.2        41.4               EXTERNAL DEBT. DFCEMBER 31. 1979
Uss Mln.
Transfers, net                             30.8         25.1         29.9
of which:  Private Remit.                21.5         18.3        25.3              Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                 125.3
Indian Excise Fund          30.8         25.1          3.0              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance              -2.8        -48.2       -39.3               Total Outstanding 6 Disbursed                125.3
(exc. grants)
Official Grants                            18.5         23.9        42.6
Official Capital, net                      16.3         22.7        35.7
Private Capital, net                      -10.3        -10.4         9.6               DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978t79 c/
Change in Reserves                  -21.7         12.0       -48.6               Public Debt. inc. guar3nteed                 1.4
(- Increase)
Gross Resgrves (mid-July)                 145.3        135.1       178.3
Net Reserves                              137.8        126.1       149.5               IBRD/IDA LEnDING.  (Agust 1980)(Millions USS)
IBRD        IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports of which:  Petroleum             17.6        17.5         16.7              Outstanding 6 Disbursed                                55.7
Exports of which:  Petroleum              --          -            -                Undisbursed                                            149.1
Outstanding, incl. undisbursed                        218.4
RATE OF EXChANGE
From October 1975
Through October 1975             through March 20, 1978            Since March 20. 1978
US$1.00 - NRs 10.56              US$1.00 - NRs 12.5                US$1.00 - NRs 12.00
NR 1.00 - US$ 0.095              NR 1.00 - USS  0.08               NR 1.00 - USS 0.083
a/   Customs basis.
h/   Payments basis.
c/   Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
November 1980



- 23 -                         ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1980) /a
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
Credit                                                                       Undis-
No.      Year         Borrower                Purpose               IDA   bursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                         7.1
373         1973     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                   6.0       0.4
397         1973     Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications II    5.5           1.5
470         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Water Supply and
Sewerage                 11.8      2.8
505         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Settlement                   6.0       4.6
600         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Kulekhani
Hydroelectric            40.8      16.3
617         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Rural Development            8.0       5.6
654         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Groundwater                  9.0       2.3
659         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Assistance         3.0       1.2
704         1977     Kingdom of Nepal    Second Water Supply
and Sewerage              8.0      6.6
705         1977     Kingdom of Nepal    Industrial Development
Corporation               4.0       3.4
730        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Highway              17.0      10.6
772         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Education          5.7       5.6
799         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications III  14.5          14.5
812         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  30.0      28.0
856         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  14.0      13.6
939         1979     Kingdom of Nepal    Second Rural
Development             11.0      11.0
1008        1980     Kingdom of Nepal    Forestry                    17.0      17.0
1055        1980     Kingdom of Nepal    Mahakali Irrigation /b  16.0          16.0
1059        1980     Kingdom of Nepal    Third Water Supply /b   27.0          27.0
1062        1980     Kingdom of Nepal    Grain Storage Ic             6.2       6.2
Total Outstanding /d                       267.6
Total Undisbursed                                    194.2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of October 31, 1980)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year         Obligor        Type of Business                Loan   Equity   Total
1975     Soaltee Hotel          Hotel                       2.70   0.43       3.13
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC                2.27   0.43      2.70
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b   Not yet effective.
/c   Approved on August 26, 1980; not yet signed.
/d   Prior to exchange adjustments, net of cancellations.



ANNEX II
-24-                          Page  2
C.   Projects in Execution I/
Credit No. 373 - Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project has nearly been completed. The main remaining item is
the restoration of eight tubewells. Crop yields achieved in irrigated areas
are promising. Water charges are now being levied in a limited area, and
farmers' acceptance is satisfactory.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior manage-
ment, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays in
procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good progress
is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants provided by
the United Kingdom and a new General Manager has been appointed. The project
is now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
the end of 1981.
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date: July 31, 1981
All major contracts have been let. Project implementation is over
two years behind the original schedule, primarily due to delays in letting the
contracts. A management team provided by the United Kingdom is assisting the
Water Supply and Sewerage Board. Work is now progressing satisfactorily. An
EEC Special Action Credit was approved in July 1979, to cover some of the
Governments share of the local costs of the project. During the negotiations
for the EEC Special Action Credit, the implementation schedule and dated
covenants were revised, and the closing date amended to July 31, 1981. All
major contracts are expected to be completed by December, 1980.
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 15,
1982
Project implementation, though still about two years behind schedule,
has improved slightly over the last months and 1,550 families have been settled.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



-25-                           ANNEX II
Page 3
Forestry clearing remains a bottleneck and technical assistance is being
provided to speed up the operation. Stress has also been laid on the need
for employment of adequate and experienced staff and better management and
planning of operations. Because of doubts about land use policy, we are
discussing with the Government reduction of project area to be newly settled
from 17,600 ha to 11,100 ha.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
All civil works contracts have been awarded and construction work
started in December 1977. The revised estimate of project costs, excluding
taxes and duties, is now US$109 million which is some 60% higher than the
estimate of US$68 million at the time of appraisal. The increases in costs
are due to a number of factors, principally design changes as a result of
further geological investigations and the risk factors inherent in a major
project which is remotely located.  These are reflected in higher prices and
implementation delays which are adding to costs. In addition, the apprecia-
tion of the Japanese yen, in which substantial part of the costs of equipment
and engineering services are being paid, has increased the US dollar cost of
the project. Cofinanciers are providing additional funds to cover the foreign
exchange cost overrun. An IDA supplemental credit of US$14.8 million and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$3.0 million equivalent were approved by the
Executive Directors on May 10, 1979. Progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, with almost all planned
project actions being implemented ahead of schedule. Disbursements had been
lagging due to delay of project authority in submitting disbursement applica-
tions. Interministerial cooperation is good, and at the district level, sound
and practical development plans have been produced which are fully supported
and understood by project farmers. Adequate financing to carry out project
proposals has been made available in the budget by the Government and sites
and plans for most district construction projects have been completed and
r           construction started.  Training of weavers and issuance of improved looms
under a credit scheme is proceeding well. Shortage of middle-level staff in
the project area for construction supervision and agricultural extension may
hinder project implementation. However, arrangements have been made for more
efficient deployment of existing staff and for special training of farmers
as part-time agricultural assistants. Under the associated Bank-executed
UNDP technical assistance project, the assistant to the Project Coordinator
and the Irrigation Advisor have completed their assignments.



ANNEX II
Page  4
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling of tubewells is in progress. Forty-one production wells
have been constructed. Progress of civil works is very slow due to the weak-
ness of local contractors. Project implementation is over two years behind
schedule. Completion of the 11 kV transmission lines is far behind schedule.
Consequently, pumps and motors cannot be installed in the completed tubewells.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1980; Revised Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Studies for a national agricultural extension project, a silica-lime
brick factory, an airborne magnetometer survey, cottage industries and the
grain storage project have been completed, while studies are in progress for
river control for the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project, an agricultural man-
power survey and the upgrading of mechanical workshops for irrigation projects.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering consultants have begun work, and feasibility studies,
master plan updating, and final designs have been completed. A tariff spe-
cialist has been recruited, and the first contract for water meters has been
awarded. Evaluation of the bids for major contracts is underway. An EEC
Special Action Credit was approved in July 1979 to assist in financing a por-
tion of the Government's share of the local cost of the project.
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date: February 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The UNDP-financed policy advisor completed his assignment and the
accounting and information systems advisor took up his post in February 1980.
To date, subprojects for about $1.7 M have been approved by IDA. Progress in
implementation of the credit has deteriorated due to shortages of complementary
local currency resources. Accordingly disbursement have continued to lag.
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project remains about two years behind schedule
(disbursements are at about 35% of the appraisal estimate), recent major
improvements in the Borrower's management give rise to the expectation that
project performance will improve and that substantial completion may possibly



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
be achieved by the Closing Date of December 31, 1982. Good progress is being
made in the construction of the Talsipur feeder road and significant improve-
ment has been achieved in the organization of work on the Thankot-Naubise Road.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US$5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date:  July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Good progress towards implementation has been made. Contracts have
been signed for all civil works packages, except external works, for which the
bids are being evaluated; however, equipment tendering is behind schedule.
The first batch of fellowship students have completed their programs and a
second batch have started their programs. A team of educational experts,
financed by ODA, have begun work in the field and a program of cooperation
with Paisley College of Technology, Scotland, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.5 million Credit
of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
ODA is financing the telex equipment and the satellite earth
station. Project consultants have been appointed. Procurement actions have
been initiated.
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In July 1980, a landslide in the catchment area caused a major flood
in the Kosi river, causing considerable erosion and endangering the Chatra
Main Canal. Emergency flood protection works were carried out. As a result
of this event it was agreed that river training works are not viable. The
sediment control studies are expected to be completed by mid-1981. Rehabili-
tation work on the Chatra Main Canal and procurement of construction equipment
are ongoing. Local consultants are completing designs for the first 13,000
ha of the irrigation system and international tenders will be invited to submit
bids for construction.  An EEC Special Action Credit of about US$4.0 million
equivalent was approved in June 1979 to help finance a portion of the Govern-
ment's share of the local cost.
Credit No. 856 - Narayani Zone Irrigation Development - Stage II Project
US$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding steadily, although slower than
anticipated. The major constraint is the weakness of local contractors.
Construction is now on-going in five of the six irrigation blocks. Procure-
ment of construction and O&M equipment is underway.



-28-                           ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 939 - Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills
US$11.0 million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The Project Coordinator has been appointed, but project activities
are approximately one year behind schedule. An earthquake hit the project
area in July 1980. Efforts are being made to accelerate the infrastructure
work under the project. This will contribute to reconstruction efforts.
Credit No. 1008 - Community Forestry Development and Training Project
US$17.0 million of May 22, 1980; Effective Date:
September 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Credit became effective on September 19, 1980.
Credit No. 1055 - Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage 1) US$16.0 Million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date: December 30,
1980, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Credit not yet effective.
Credit No. 1059 - Third Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$27.0 Million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date: December 30,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Credit not yet effective.



ANNEX III
-29-
NEPAL
BABAI IRRIGATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
6 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
DIHM, with the assistance of the Bank staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
March 1979
March 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 2, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
December 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
April 1981
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) appointment of a Project Manager with qualifications
satisfactory to the Association (para 45);
(b) appointment of a road engineer to be responsible for
the design of the 30 km section of the East-West
Highway within the project area (para 45); and
(c) recruitment of a consulting firm acceptable to the
Association to assist in the detailed designs and
tender documents (para 45).






|o~ 83                                                    0 E2  E4                                                      86                                                                    SEPTEMBER tv980
NEPAL
C H I N A                                                                              BABAI IRRIGATION PROJECT
INDIA   ,/za    -W.-:.vEm-s.-                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project Location
Mountain Region         P j                         Rioers
K     Hill Region                                        Develop.enet Region Boundaries
1/7Swo'    e ~  A~jJjTJTJ<J1 lDner 'er 0Admin,stratioe  Zonal Bound0ries
-  RO4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ~~~~~~Teroi                                                                                                  District Boundaries
ATAKt MEiandu Volny \                                                                                                                                                                                       Internfionai Boundories
PRO   _0;. Ongoing P'miects
ISTA GE ,T
.:~~Proposed Project
N                                                                                                              5              ~~~,LC                        H    I N  
G A N~~<
WI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DANG EVELOPENTPOJC
Aise6iea                                                    KILOMETERS                                              N         D                    A                        SUNSARI MORODWANSPR
I ND I A                                                                                                                                                              I          ~               ELiiP~,H,N 
BU R M A ~    80                                                                                         PR O JE CT__ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _  *   _  _ _ _          _  _ _ _ _ _  _






IBRD 15209
,   SLRKHU          /                                                                                                                )                                                           0  :          -  a    SE TEMRER If EM
/,,/< W ; ~~~~~~~B                                         A           R            D                     A .  
/                                                                                                                                         I       N        D        I      A
>                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~NEPAL
f-                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BABAI IRRIGATION PROJECT
~~~~OSSD                                  2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GENERAL PLAN
tX    N        D         I      A                                                                                                                      l-ED \'"ATIO   W                     EI-I  T-DCE
-POED AWS U'A                  0    TOWN- -T
r i                                                                                                                                   AIRPORT 1  : ;  1 l:  5gX  1;   B   A I   .-K-\  
0'Tt                          '          \          ! ,    t   :   f    > 'W  ..........................................P.        W                            -     -                                        -L- T.. ROUTE..IV.S



