OPFICIAI,       CREDIT NUMBER 1093 NEP
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Babai Irrigation Engineering Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1093 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    (-N e     2       , 1981 between KINGDOM
OF NEPAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist
in the financing of the cost of the project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project); and
WHEREAS the Association is willing, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to make a development credit to the Borrower on
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "DIHM" means the Borrower's Department of Irrigation,
Hydrology and Meteorology; and
(b) "Project Area" means an area of about 20,000 ha in
the Borrower's Bardia District of the Bheri zone.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿-2-
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to two million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 2,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1991, and ending December 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DIHM with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon its obliga-
tion under paragraph (a), the Borrower shall cause: (i) DIHM
to provide suitably qualified and experienced staff to work with
the consultants referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(ii) its Roads Department to assign a suitably qualified and
experienced engineer to DIHM, to be responsible for the design of
an approximately 30 kilometer section of the Borrower's East West
Highway.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall appoint a Project Manager
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Association, who shall be responsible for the implementation of
the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall employ qualified and experienced consul-
tants satisfactory to the Association, under contracts, including
terms of reference, satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consultants
in the performance of their services for the Project and make
available to them all information relevant to the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause such consultants promptly to
furnish to the Association copies of the documents prepared by
them for the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, plans,
designs, specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs, in
such number as the Association shall reasonably request.
(d) With respect to the evaluation and implementation of the
recommendations and other conclusions contained in the documents
referred to in the preceding paragraph:
(i) during the carrying out of the Project, the Bor-
rower and the Association shall from time to time


﻿-4-
exchange views on said recommendations and conclu-
sions, and
(ii) upon completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
consult with the Association on the recommendations
and conclusions relating thereto.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures under Categories 1 (b) and (3) of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure
and shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year


﻿-5-
to be audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after the end of each
such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested including, without limitation to
the foregoing, an opinion by said auditors in respect of the
records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said separate accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
S etion 4.02. In order to ensure the coordination of the
plans for the road and irrigation system and the settlement plans
in respect of approximately 2,400 ha of lowlands in the Khumber
Area, the Borrower shall:
(a) by not later than June 30, 1981, decide and notify the
Association, whether the said lowlands shall be developed as part
of the settlement scheme for the Borrower's Khumber Cotton Project
or as part of a settlement scheme for paddy cultivators, and shall
notify the Association of any institutional arrangements made or
to be made for forest clearing and settlement in the Khumber area;
and
(b) cause, as applicable, the staff of the Khumber Cotton
Project, the staff of the DIHM, and the consultants employed
pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement to coordinate the
preparation of such plans.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date    :w- ->-    , 1981 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:                     Telex:
ARTHA                              249 NEP
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties thereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 7 -
of Columbia, United States of Americi, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By   $"
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By :      /ii<
Byy                  Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                    240,000
(a) by contract                              95%
(b) by force account                         100%
(2) Equipment and                 470,000
vehicles:
(a) directly imported                        100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local
factured                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally procured                         75%
(3) Salaries and Operating        120,000         100%
Expenses related to the
Project
(4) Consultants' services       1,760,000         100%
(5) Unallocated                   210,000
TOTAL             2,800,000


﻿-9-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$300,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1980.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 10 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Preparation of final engineering design, cost estimates
and tender documents for the facilities to be constructed or
installed in the Project Area and for the approximately 30
kilometer Section of the East West Highway.
Part B:
Review of prequalification of contractors and issue and
evaluation of bids.
Part C:
Carrying out of topographical surveys along alignments of
irrigation and drainage channels, project roads and the East West
Highway as well as site surveys for major structures, including a
bridge over the Man River.
Part D:
Carrying out of aerial photography and preparation of ground
control and topographical maps.
Part E:
Carrying out of geological investigations, particularly at
the weir site, surveys for the location of construction materials,
infiltration tests, hydrological surveys, laboratory tests and, if
necessary, a hydraulic model test for the headworks and desilting
facilities.
Part F:
Carrying out a semi-detailed soil survey and classification
of soils for irrigation.
Part G:
Carrying out of a detailed socio-economic benchmark survey.


﻿- 12 -
Part H:
Provision of engineering equipment and vehicles to DIHM
and construction of camps and quarters for use by consultants and
DIHM staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 13 -
Schedule 3
Procurement
A.   International Shopping Procedures
Contracts for the procurement of equipment and vehicles shall
be awarded through international shopping procedures which shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the construction of civil works may be procured
on the basis of locally advertised competitive bidding in accor-
dance with applicable procurement procedures of the Borrower which
shall be satisfactory to the Association or may be carried out by
the Borrower through force account.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 14 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan
Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   J26      day of
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


