Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16609
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3112-IND)
May 23, 1997
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit   = Indonesian Rupiah
At Appraisal in 1989
Rp.1700   = US$1.00
Rp.1 million= US$588
Annual Average
1990    1991    1992    1993       1994    1995       1996
1,843   1,950    2,030    2,080    2,160    2,237    2,372
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPEDA                  -            Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS                 -            National Development Planning Agency
DG                       -            Directorates General
DINAS PUP                -            Provincial (Level 1) Public Works Department
IDTP                     -            Public Works Institutional Developmcnt and Training
Project
IOE                      -            In-Office Expert
KANWIL                   -            Kantor Wilayah (provincial office of Central
Government Ministries)
MIS                      -            Management Information System
MPW                      -            Ministry of Public Works
MDP                      -            Manpower Development Project
PIU                      -            Project Implementation Unit
PMU                      -            Project Management Unit
PP                       -            Peraturan Pemerintab (Government Regulation)
PUSDATA                  -            Center for Data Processing, Ministry of Public Works
PUSDIKLAT                -            Center for Staff Training, Ministry of Public Works
RTC                      -            Regional Training Center
SG                       -            Secretary General
SAR                      -            Staff Appraisal Report
TA                                    Technical Assistance
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director:    Marianne Haug, EA3
Division Chief: Samuel Lieberman, EA3PH
Staff:       Brigitte Duces. EA3PH



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                                                                i
Evaluation Summary                                                    ii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                           1
B. Achievement of Objectives                                    2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                          7
D. Project Sustainability                                       7
E. Bank Performance                                             8
F. Borrower Performance                                         8
G. Assessment of Outcome                                        8
H. Future Operations                                            9
I. Key Lessons Learned                                         9
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1   Summary of Assessments                                11
Table 2   Related Bank Loans                                    13
Table 3   Project Timetable                                     14
Table 4   Loan Disbursements                                    14
Table SA  Key Performance Indicators                            15
Table SB  List of Overseas Training Courses of IDTP             16
Table SC  Allocation of Priority Staff Training Program         17
Table 6   Studies included in Project                           18
Table 7A  Project Costs                                         19
Table 7B  Project Financing                                     20
Table 8   Status of Legal Covenants                             21
Table 9   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                          23
Table 10  Bank Resources: Missions                              24
Annex 1          Status of Decrees                                     25
Annex 2          Numbers of graduates in Kanwils                        27
Annex 3          Key Documents produced under the Project               28
Annex 4          Summary Status of Technical Assistance                 30
Appendix A:      Borrower Contribution to the ICR
including the Operational Plan                        32
MapNo.           IBRD 21404
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 3112-IND)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Works Institutional
Development and Training Project in Indonesia, for which Loan No. 3112-IND in the amount of
US$36.1 million equivalent was approved on July 25, 1989 and made effective on November 15,
1989.
The loan closed on December 31, 1996, a year later than the original closing date of December
31, 1995. By April 30, 1997, 98% of the loan was disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Rozany Deen of the Population and Human Resource Division,
Country Department 111 of the East Asia and Pacific Region. It was reviewed by Mr. Samuel
Lieberman, Chief, Population and Human Resources Operations Division and Mr. Oscar de Bruyn
Kops, Acting Operations Advisor, Country Department m. The Borrower has reviewed the document.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission in October 1996.
Preparation was based on material in the project files, field visits and reports received from the Project
Management Unit. The Borrower's evaluation of the project and its Operational Plan for the future is
attached as Appendix A.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3112-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The Public Works Institutional Development and Training Project (IDTP) was developed to
support the Ministry of Public Works (MPW's) nascent efforts at deconcentration1 and
decentralization2 in the late 1980's. MPW's intent was to improve efficiency and effectiveness in the
public works sector by transferring increased responsibilities for planning, design, budgeting, and
implementation of public works programs from central government to the provincial and local
governments. The central government retained responsibility for national policies and projects and
technical supervision and control. The national framework for decentralization was laid down in Law
No. 5 of 1974. The impetus and basis for IDTP was PP14/87, a regulation which outlined a broad
range of public works responsibilities to be transferred from the central to the other levels, and
PP6/88 which required the central and local agencies to coordinate their efforts through the provincial
level. The project also built on investments for the development and management of training programs
and facilities financed under the Public Works Manpower Development Project (MDP - Loan No.
2258-IND), its predecessor.
Project Objectives
ii.    The project's objectives were: (a) to improve the coordination of planning and the
implementation of public works activities by staff development and improved management information
and other systems; and (b) assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in the implementation of policies
for deconcentration and decentralization of responsibilities for public works. The project had three
components to support the objectives: (1) Staff and Institutional Development; (2) Improvement of
Management Systems and Procedures; and (3) Improvement of the Quality Control of Construction.
The major focus of the assistance was the provincial level public works departments (Kanwil and
Dinas PUP). Support for the local governments was envisaged under another project, for which
preparatory funds were included in IDTP.
"Deconcentration" is defined as the delegation of authority for services from the central MPW to its
representatives at the provincial level (Kanwil).
2 "Decentralization" is defined as the transfer of responsibilities for services from the central or provincial MPW
offices to the local governments (districts/municipalities).



- 1ii -
Project Implementation and Outcomes
iii.   The project is rated as satisfactory. It was successful in achieving its objective of improving
the coordination of planning and programming of public works activities. It was largely successful,
although there are shortcomings, in addressing the organizational, technical and staffing problems
related to MPW in its efforts to deconcentrate. The main shortcomings related to the underutilization
of laboratories and non-completion of activities under the training component. When the project
began, MPW was a highly centralized organization, with inadequate cooperation and coordination
amongst the three major Directorates General (Highways, Water Resources and Human Settlements)
and between the Directorates General and key Bureaus under the Secretary General (SG). There
were many weaknesses in staffing and personnel systems; lack of trained staff in the provinces; poor
training programs; inadequate and incompatible information systems; and limited facilities for quality
assurance. At the end of the project, many of these issues had been addressed and all key changes
introduced were institutionalized as national policies.
iv.    The project successfully met many of its objectives for developing and implementing policies
for deconcentration and providing staff development and support systems. The most significant success
in the staff and institutional development component was that the role and functions of the Kanwil
were defined, with the coordination of planning and programming of public works activities in the
provinces deconcentrated to a strengthened Kanwil. The Kanwil was also given authority for the
overall technical supervision, control and guidance of all public works activities at this level. In
addition, staff planning, career development, job analyses and performance appraisal systems were
developed following the establishment of a comprehensive personnel information system. The Kanwil
was also substantially staffed with people of a higher technical and administrative capability to fulfill its
new duties.
v.   A number of management systems and procedures were designed and developed under the
project. A major new system called the Decision Support System/Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP)
was introduced for planning annual public works programs and projects. This system assigns priorities
and ranking for projects according to agreed provincial and national weights and criteria. This system
is implemented by the Kanwil at the provincial level and by the Bureau of Planning at the national
level. The result of the AHP process is a coordinated prograrn of public works activities with a single
body responsible for financial negotiations on the investment program. As the AHP has been gradually
introduced nationally, and involves fundamental behavioral and attitudinal changes in its
implementation, it may not be fully operational and effective as yet at the provincial levels. However,
the introduction of the AHP is a major improvement relative to the previous lack of a cohesive national
system. It went far beyond the project objective, which was the development of a manual.
vi.  Additionally, a standardized and core Management Information System (MIS), supporting the
personnel and planning processes, a national financial accounting system, and a project monitoring and
evaluation system were also introduced. Improved systems for foreign aid coordination, project and
performance audits, legal data bases, better library and archive facilities, greater efficiency in
procurement and improved public relations also resulted from project activities.
vii.  The concentration on the Kanwil meant that much more limited support was provided to the
Dinas PUP under the project, which was a major change in project scope. The role of the Dinas PUP



- iv -
still appears to be evolving, but there has clearly been a diminution of functions as their district
offices have been abolished with staff and equipment expected to be absorbed into the local
governments.
viii. A objective of improving the quality assurance system for provincial laboratories for the testing
of soil, water, and materials, as needed for construction works projects, was implemented under
IDTP. This was done through the construction of laboratories, provision of equipment and training of
personnel. An accreditation system to ensure that each laboratory is maintained at set standards was
developed and applied.  However, this component has shortcomings.  The utilization of the
laboratories is only about 40%-50%, maintenance appeared inadequate in facilities visited, and
although the laboratories were expected to provide testing for public and private clients, the latter has
only been implemented to a very limited extent due to lack of marketing.
xi.    The training management component3 objectives of upgrading training, improving its
management and effectiveness, and coordinating and integrating all public works training programs
were only partially met. The project successfully restructured the Center for Training (PUSDIKLAT),
improved the coordination of all public works training, developed curricula and training methods, and a
set of specialist instructors. However, a fully integrated training program for staff at all levels, the
development of a training management information system for analyzing outcomes, costs and budgets,
greater utilization of training centers and the implementation of distance learning programs are still to
be achieved. The Borrower's Operational Plan indicates that work to complete this component as well
as to improve the utilization of laboratories will be continued after project closing.
x.    The only performance indicator outlined in the SAR to measure outcomes was the numbers of
staff trained. This has exceeded SAR targets but the effectiveness of training programs, expected to be
undertaken by PUSDIKLAT above, remain to be assessed. Nevertheless, as discussed in the above
paragraphs, it is clear that there has been substantial progress in meeting other project development
objectives.
xi.    Bank performance was satisfactory and Borrower Performance highly satisfactory during
project implementation. The major procurement issue was related to negotiations on costs of
consultancy contracts which delayed implementation by a year. Project innovations appear sustainable.
Many of the interventions have been institutionalized through Ministerial and other Decrees, and the
Borrower's Operational Plan contains provisions to maintain, upgrade, and finance most of the system-
wide investment program supported by IDTP. The Operational Plan also indicates MPW's intent to
extend the systems, as appropriate, to support more recent decentralization policies which transfer
major implementation responsibilities, including finance, to the local governments.   These
developments should be monitored as indicators of sustainability. It should be noted that although the
systems are in place and largely operational, the full impact of IDTP in terms of effectiveness,
efficiency and increased productivity in public works activities cannot be fully assessed now. It
should be reviewed and supported through other Bank-financed MPW projects under implementation,
and a comprehensive assessment made in a few years' time.
3Training is part of the Staff and Institutional Development group of components but is discussed separately given
its importance to the project.



- v -
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
xii.   The project has continued a process, begun under MDTP, that is long-term. The project did
provide for studies and the preparation of future local government institutional and staff development
projects to support the further devolution of activities to the local governnent level. The latter projects
did not eventuate due to lack of broad-based Government support. Currently, there is no follow-up
project for IDTP, although sector work on capacity building to support the accelerated decentralization
policies is planned.
xiii.   The project provides the Bank and Borrower with a number of lessons. Among them  the
following are emphasized: (a) support for major institutional processes such as deconcentration and
decentralization requires a vision of a final outcome, and a phased set of projects to reach this
objective. Each individual project and its impact can only be measured as part of this process. MDP,
IDTP and the proposed local government projects comprised such a long-term program. In hindsight,
it is regrettable that the program did not eventuate since, if it had, the local governments would have
been more ready to undertake activities as increasing responsibilities were decentralized to their level
over time; (b) the need for flexibility and adaptation as national changes overtake the more focused
sectoral changes that are generally built into a project; (c) the importance of strong, effective and
committed project management for effective implementation; (d) the need for clear project
performance indicators to measure progress and outcomes, particularly measures for assessing the
effectiveness of large TA components, as well as independent impact assessments, including tracer
studies, for the training programs; and (e) the need for greater dissemination of individual sector
experiences in decentralization, both in the Bank and GOI, to guide future work as decentralization
policies continue to evolve in Indonesia.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Ln. 3112-IND)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT REVIEW
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The objectives of the Public Works Institutional Development and Training Project (IDTP)
were: (a) to improve the coordination of planning and implementation of public works activities by staff
development and improved management information and other systems; and (b) assist the Government
of Indonesia (GOI) in the implementation of policies for deconcentration and decentralization of
responsibilities for public works to provincial and local government levels. It was felt that successful
implementation of GOI's decentralization plans were important for the preservation of the existing
stock of public infrastructure assets and for the effectiveness of future development plans in the sector.
2.    The project objectives were placed within the context of the nascent efforts at deconcentration
and decentralization and the changed functions of the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) that were
emerging during the late 1980's. The major focus of the assistance was the provincial (Level 1) public
works departments. Support for the local governments (Level II) was envisaged under another project,
for which preparatory funds were included in IDTP.
3.    The project had three components:
a) Staff and Institutional Development through strengthening the Provincial Offices of Central
Government Ministries (Kanwil) and the Provincial Public Works Department (Dinas
PUP) by implementing: (i) improved systems for staff planning, personnel information,
career development, job analysis and performance appraisal, (iii) strengthening staff to
facilitate the transfer of responsibilities; and (iii) upgrading staff training including the
coordination of the total program of public works training;
b) Improvement of Management Systems and Procedures including: (i) use of a standardized
core management information system; (ii) improved coordination of planning and
programming of public works activities and uniform reporting; and (iii) improved foreign
aid collaboration; financial planning and management; control and performance audits;
procurement; legal functions; libraries; archives and public information activities; and
c)  Improvement of the Quality Control of Construction through upgrading of 184 provincial
laboratories testing facilities, and the establishment of accreditation systems to ensure
laboratory standards.
4 The upgrading of the remaining 9 provinces was undertaken under the Irrigation Subsector Project (Ln.2880-IND)



- 2 -
4.     The objectives and content of the project were consistent with the Government's strategy at
the time to transfer broad responsibilities for planning, design, budgeting, and implementation of
projects from central to provincial and local governments. The central government retained the
responsibility for national policies and projects and for technical guidance and supervision. The national
framework for decentralization was laid down in Law No. 5 of 1974, while the sectoral policies were
laid down in subsequent ministerial decrees and regulations. The impetus and basis for lDTP was PP
14/87, a government regulation specifying the transfer of a  broad range of public works
responsibilities from central to the lower levels, and PP 6/88 which placed the responsibility for
preparation of an integrated program of infrastructure and service development with the provincial
governors, and required central and local agencies to coordinate their efforts through the provincial
level.
5.     Although the pace and specifics of the decentralization process had not been fully formulated
and developed, Bank dialogue and projects in the public works sector such as the Integrated Urban
Infrastructure Development Programs (Loan No. 2816-IND) approved in FY87, had been important
tools in the evolution of the strategies. IDTP was designed as a complementary measure to improve
human resource capacity as well as establish the systems and procedures to enable MPW and the
provincial staff to effectively manage and integrate public works activities in line with the above
regulations.  It was also responding to major themes in Project Completion Reports and Project
Performance Audit Reports for Bank financed public works projects, which had highlighted many
staffing and institutional weaknesses that had hampered public works activities and delayed project
implementation. The project was also building on investments for the development of staff training
programs, systems and procedures developed under the Public Works Manpower Development Project
(MDP - Loan 2258-IND), its predecessor. Additionally, recognizing that decentralization is a long-
term process, IDTP had provided support for the continuing devolution of responsibilities through
provision of funds for the development offuture projects to support the institutional development of
local government staff
6.    The project was appraised in November 1988 and became effective in November 1989. The
continuing GOI decrees and regulations being issued on decentralization had a major impact on the
project objectives. The SAR had indicated that the decrees and regulations, which were in draft or still
under preparation at the commencement of the project, would introduce a degree of uncertainty
pending their finalization and could necessitate adjustments to project activities and timing. This did
occur during implementation. As it became evident that GOI was devolving increasing responsibilities
to the local governments for planning and implementing public works, particularly with the issuance of
the government regulation PP45/92, the project objectives and focus changed. First, assistance was
concentrated on the Kanwil with much more limited support than envisaged in the SAR being provided
to the Dinas PUP (para. 16). Additionally, components such as the management information system
and assistance for the coordination of programming and planning, were expanded from the original
minimum core nine provinces to become national interventions to support the policy changes. The
project also required a year's extension of the Closing Date from December 31, 1995 to end December
1996 due to a delayed start in two consultancy packages.
B. Achievement of Objectives
7.    IDTP was successful in achieving its objective of improving the coordination of planning and
programming of public works activities. It was largely successful, although there are shortcomings, in
addressing the organizational, technical and staffing problems related to MPW in its efforts to
deconcentrate and transfer functions and responsibilities from the central MPW to the Kanwil. Further,



although not explicitly indicated as a project objective, the project also strengthened the office of the
Secretary General (SG) and its Bureaus at the center. Nearly all the key changes introduced under the
project are now institutionalized national policies (Annex 1).
8.     MPW activities are the responsibility of three separate Directorates General (DG's), each
reporting directly to the Minister. These are: (a) Bina Marga (highways); (b) Pengairan (water
resources) and (c) Cipta Karya (human settlements). There are also several Bureaus reporting to the
SG. They are responsible for Personnel, Planning, Finance, Foreign Aid Coordination, Legal Support,
Logistics, General Affairs as well as the Center for Training (PUSDIKLAT), Management
Information Systems (PUSDATA) and the Inspectorate General.
9.    When the project began, MPW was a highly centralized organization, with project work being
planned, budgeted, managed and supervised from each of the DG's offices. There was inadequate
cooperation and coordination amongst the individual DG's and between the DG's and Bureaus; many
weaknesses in staffing and personnel systems; lack of trained staff in the provinces; poor training
programs; inadequate and incompatible information systems; limited facilities for quality assurance;
and in many provinces the Kanwils and Dinas PUP were weak.
10.   The project dealt with all these issues and, thus, was complex. There were multiple activities
and the classification system developed during implementation identified 13 components including
project management. The components were as follows: a) Personnel (Component 1); b) Strengthening
of Kanwil and Dinas (Component 2); c) Management of Training (Component 3); d) Management
Information System (Component 4); e) Programming and Planning (Component 5); 1) Foreign Aid
Coordination (Component 6 ); g) Finance (Component 7 ); h) Audits (Component 8); i) Legal
(Component 9); j) Logistics (Component 10 ); k) Libraries, Archives and Public Information
(Component 11); 1) Laboratories (Component 12 ; and m) Project Management (Component 13).
11.   The following evaluation discusses the separate components largely under the broad groupings
of the SAR: (i) Staff and Institutional Development (Components 1 and 2); (ii) Management Systems
and Procedures (Components 4-11); (iii) Quality Control of Construction (Component 12); and (iv)
Management of Training (Component 3).
Staff and Institutional Development
12.   The project was successful in meeting the major objectives of implementing policies for
deconcentration and providing staff development and support systems. The most significant success
was that the role and functions of the Kanwil were defined with the coordination of planning and
programming of public works activities in the provinces deconcentrated to a strengthened Kanwil. The
Kanwil was also given authority for the overall technical supervision and control ("wastek") and
guidance ("bintek") of all public works activities at this level. All necessary Ministerial regulations to
institutionalize the Kanwils new responsibilities were implemented.
13.   The Kanwils were substantially staffed to meet their needs in fulfilling the new duties. Staff of
higher technical and administrative competence were appointed, including staff reallocated from the
center. Although the project had proposed that 650 technical and administrative staff be transferred
from the central to the provincial offices over the life of the project, only about 110 staff were actually
transferred. However, the numbers of graduates at the Kanwil were increased from 488 in 1992 to
1050 in 1996, an increase of 562 or 115% (Annex 2). This was not incompatible with the SAR, which



- 4 -
had also indicated that relocation of central staff would only take place if training of local staff would
be inadequate to raise their expertise to the required level.
14.    The improvement of staff management was also achieved. A comprehensive personnel
information system covering all MPW professional, technical and administrative staff engaged in
public works activities was established and is now operational. The system supports career
development, job analysis and performance appraisal, all of which are now in routine use. The Kanwil
administers this system for the province and district level in coordination with the center. Functional
jobs for career streams such as engineering, architecture and surveying which were developed together
with the Ministry of Administrative Reform are pending approval, while others have been
implemented, for example, in the office of the Inspectorate General.
15.   Supervision reports and field visits indicated more motivated and professional staff in the
Kanwil. In some cases, the Kanwils are already operating as the focal point for all public works in the
provinces. These achievements need to be contrasted with the Kanwil conditions before the project
started, when they were largely pro-forma regional representatives of the central office, badly staffed
and with little real authority or decision making responsibility. Further, the delineation of the functions
of the Kanwil, including the fact that they are no longer responsible for implementation, has facilitated
the transfer of such responsibilities to the local governments.
16.   Whilst the Kanwil was strengthened, the decreased attention on the Dinas PUP followed the
issuance of PP45/92, a government regulation which further devolved public works responsibilities to
the local governments. The role of the Dinas PUP still appears to be evolving, but there has clearly
been a diminution of their staffing and functions as their district offices (Cabang Dinas) have now
been abolished and much of their staff and equipment will be absorbed into the local governments. At
the time of PP45/92, it was also expected that another Bank financed project would assist GOI to
develop the human resources and institutional capabilities of all Dinas staff. This was the proposed
Local Government Institutional and Staff Development Project which, however, did not eventuate due
to lack of broad-based GOI support.5
Management Systems and Procedures
17.   Many management systems and procedures were introduced to improve the efficiency of
public works programs, provide for a more coordinated system between center and the Kanwil, and
support the changed functions of the latter. Some of these systems were developed under MDP and
were adapted and expanded under the project.
18.   The major project objective of improving the planning and coordination of public work
activities is being implemented through the introduction of the Decision Support SystemlAnalytical
Hierarchical Process (AHP). Currently the AHP represents a systematic approach for prioritization
and coordination of public works programs financed by the central budget with local budgets expected
to be incorporated in the future. Initially, sub-sectoral programs are analyzed using systems like IRMS
(Interurban Road Management System) or KREEM (Kabupaten Roads Economic Evaluation Module).
They are then ranked at the provincial and national levels using AHP and taking into account criteria
and weights agreed by teams including the Kanwil, Dinas, and planning offices (BAPPEDAS). A final
investment program is then determined, with the Bureau of Planning responsible for negotiations with
BAPPENAS and the Ministiy of Finance. The ABP has proved an important tool for constructive
5The study and development of future local government projects is specified in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2,
Part A,4) but not clearly identified in the SAR.



- 5 -
participation at many levels, a synchronized program rather than past vertical programs of individual
DG's, and a single body representing MPW in key negotiations on the program. The scope of the
AHP was also expanded from the original nine provinces to a national intervention. As the AHP has
been gradually introduced nationally, and its implementation involves fundamental behavioral and
attitudinal changes, it may not be fully operational and effective as yet in all provinces. However, AHP
went far beyond the objective for this component, which was the production of a manual to deal with
coordination linkages within the public works program.
19.   Improvements were also introduced in other systems. The Management Information System
(MIS) was completely overhauled during the project period, a standard core system developed in place
of the multiple systems previously in use, and the system extended from the center to the provinces.6
The MIS included a number of sub-systems which were developed and then integrated into the core
system. This included an integrated financial management and information system, using the new
national accounting system, to enable the Kanwils to monitor and report on the use of development
budgets; a project monitoring and evaluation system, which provides feedback to the ABP; and legal
data bases for the central as well as provincial and local governments. It also included bibliographical
data bases and improved library networks; and better systems for foreign aid coordination through the
efficient monitoring of the status of on-going programs and projects assisted by foreign loans or grants.
PUSDATA has also developed PU-Net, which includes the MPW home page on the World Wide
Web, E-Mail facilities and INTERNET access for Kanwil staff. All MIS systems are operational and
were being utilized during field visits. But there is a need for more rationalization and improvements
to the MIS, since there appears to be duplication in some areas and greater integration is required with
the DG's systems. In addition some of the system development, such as the establishment of the legal
data bases, will still require a substantial amount of work following loan closure. It is, however, clear
that the development of a standardized national MIS system, with compatible hardware and software
and links between the center and the Kanwil, has been an important project achievement.
20.   Other improvements introduced under the project included the implementation of performance
and program audits in selected MPW projects since FY95/96; the upgrading and development of the
archive system and improved public information and publication activities. The objective of the
logistics component was the development of standard International and Local Competitive Bidding
documents, acceptable to all funding agencies. The objective was met and MPW now provides the
national standards for procurement procedures and bidding and contract documents. However,
MPW's work was made void twice (1993 and 1995) by the Bank issuing new standard documents,
subsequent to MPW completing its own drafts based on previous reviews and discussions with the
Bank.
21.   A substantial amount of project related training was provided with the overall man-months
total for the components exceeding the SAR targets (Table 5). Besides training for staff from the
center and the Kanwil, the training included some support for the Dinas PUP staff and, in line with the
SAR, limited training was provided to staff from the local governments.  Although much of the
training appears to have been responsive to needs as it is very component specific, the quality and cost-
effectiveness of the training remains to be evaluated by PUSDIKLAT as part of its activities financed
under the project (para 24 below). A substantial number of manuals (169) were also produced under
the project. They included guidelines, handbooks and training manuals to ensure continuous operations
6Funding for computers and associated equipment was also provided under the Highway Sector Loan (Loan No.
3133-IND)



- 6 -
support and future sustainability of the separate components. A summary list of some key manuals for
individual components are outlined in Annex 3. It should be noted that as nearly all of the management
support systems discussed above are computer based and technology driven, they would require
continuous updating and maintenance, which is indicated in the Borrower's Operational Plan.
Quality Control of Construction
22.   The project objective of improved quality assurance in construction was to be provided through
the provision of Kanwil laboratories for the testing of construction material. The construction of
laboratories, provision of equipment and training of personnel, were implemented in all provinces
under the project. The laboratories are carrying out tests in soil, water and basic construction materials
and, in many provinces, are the only locations where testing of reasonable quality can be carried out.
An accreditation system, to ensure that each laboratory is maintained at set standards has been
designed, and nearly all laboratories accredited to carry out a standard range of tests.
23.   Nevertheless, there are shortcomings in this component. The utilization of the laboratories is
currently estimated at about 40%-50% only, as many tests called for in project specifications and
standards do not appear to be carried out due to lack of enforcement. Maintenance of the laboratories
is already a cause for concern, since buildings visited are deteriorating and funds for provision of
equipment maintenance seemed to be inadequate. Further, although the SAR envisaged cost-recovery
through these laboratories providing services to MPW projects but also other private clients on a fee
paying basis, this has only been achieved to a limited extent due to the lack of active marketing of
services.
Management of TrainingR
24.   The objectives of upgrading staff training and coordinating the local public works training
program were only partially met and is a major shortcoming of the project. PUSDIKLAT was
restructured during the project and the calibre of key and supporting staff significantly improved.
Through the establishment of a work unit (balai), which is responsible for all project related and other
training needs emanating from the DG's, the project achieved its objective of coordinating all public
works training. Success was also achieved in improving curricula, the development of training
techniques, undertaking priority training programs and the establishment of a group of competent
specialist instructors. But other key objectives were not achieved. The implementation of a fully
integrated training program for central MPW, Kanwil and Dinas staff was not met. The development
of a training management information system and a comprehensive system for the evaluation of
training, including analyzing costs, outcomes and budgets, has still to be completed, as has the
proposed programs of distance learning. The six Regional Training Centers (RTC's) were expected to
be provincial centers for training, with annual programs and plans largely decided by the Kanwils.
These changes have yet to be implemented and the training centers remain underutilized (usage is
between 40%-60%).' These issues were raised by the supervision missions, and recommendations and
action plans formulated and agreed but only partially implemented. The Operational Plan indicates that
work to complete this component, as well as to improve the utilization of laboratories, will be
continued after project closing.
7These results are consistent with other findings. The recent report "Training and the Labor Market in Indonesia:
Productivity Gains and Employment Growth" (Green Cover Report No. 14413-IND, dated June 7, 1996) also
reports that capacity utilization of in-house educational and training institutions for civil servants remains low.



C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors generally subject to government control
25.   GOI policies on decentralization continued to evolve during project implementation with
significant impact on the project objectives and scope. The two most significant changes were the
concentration on strengthening the Kanwil (para. 12) and the broadening of project innovations such as
the AHP to make them national in scope (para 18). These activities involved attitudinal and behavioral
change which needed the cooperation and support of all involved, and particularly at the provincial
level. It would not have been successful without the announced policy support of the highest levels at
MPW. Although MPW gave the strongest support to the institutional changes under the project, the
lack of GOI support for the proposed Local Government Institutional and Staff Development Project is,
in hindsight, regrettable (para 16). IDTP had specifically provided support for the continued
devolution of responsibilities to the local governments through such projects. If the project/s had
eventuated, it would have provided the complementary measures to strengthening public works (as
well as other sector) staff at the local govermments, while IDTP strengthened the Kanwil.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
26.   The appointment of a full-time Project Management Unit (PMU), the establishment of Project
Implementation Units (PmT's) for each of the sub-components and assignment of qualified and
dedicated key counterpart staff greatly assisted successful project implementation.  There was
substantial use of foreign and local Technical Assistance (TA) (about 32% of the total project cost),
since they were used to design and support implementation of all components. They were assisted at
all times by counterparts or In-Office Experts (IOE's). The IOE's were able to interact with the
consultants on a daily basis, and this provided an effective system for the transfer of knowledge and
expertise from the TAs.  The major procurement issue was related to negotiations on costs of
consultancy contracts which delayed implementation by a year. Strict control was also maintained on
TA performance with unsatisfactory consultants being removed from the project. In the absence of
objective standards, it is difficult to judge whether the work could have been done with less use of TA,
but there has been a substantial decrease over time in the use of international consultants and increasing
use of local consultants. The summary of TA, their contribution and costs is seen in Annex 4. On the
training component, although sustained efforts were made in trying to resolve issues PUSDIKLAT
focused on a range of tasks beyond the project scope. The net result was that progress on IDTP
activities stalled, and by project completion there was insufficient time to meet the SAR objectives for
the component.
D. Project Sustainability
27.   Project achievements are likely to be sustained since all necessary Ministerial and other decrees
and regulations for IDTP, which are required for institutionalizing systems and procedures, have been
issued and are operational. MPW is also committed to sustaining the existing changes through the
provision of routine budgets for the Kanwil and seeking self-financing status for the provincial testing
laboratories and RTC's. As indicated in their Operational Plan, MPW have also stated their intent to
modify, expand and incorporate additional improvements to the existing IDTP systems. MPW is
seeking additional financing from donors for capacity building to complete and continue the IDTP
innovations but also extend them, as appropriate, to the local governments. These developments
should be monitored as indicators of sustainability.



- 8 -
E. Bank Performance
28.    Bank performance was satisfactory. During project preparation, it was timely in supporting
changes that were only beginning to be formulated as GOI policies on deconcentration and
decentralization evolved. Although at the beginning of project implementation there was a brief change
in Task Managers, an element of continuity was maintained throughout project supervision, since the
staff responsible for project design continued through to completion.  Sufficient flexibility was
exhibited in supporting needed modifications as the decentralization processes accelerated. However,
a regular schedule of supervisions was not maintained and there was a gap of over an year between the
last fill supervision and the completion mission. It would have also been useful if staff from the
Infrastructure Division, and Agriculture Division working on irrigation institutions, who would have a
greater opportunity to assess the impact of the project innovations on a day to day basis, had been
involved in supervision.  More generally, supervision staff would have benefited from  the
establishment of some clearly defined performance indicators to measure progress and outcomes,
particularly measures for assessing the effectiveness of the large TA component as well as independent
impact assessments, including tracer studies, for the training programs.
F. Borrower Performance
29.   Borrower performance was highly satisfactory; the major exception being the limited success
on the training component. Supervision reports frequently cited the excellent management and
implementation of the project. This was due to the strong commitment of the Minister and S G
throughout project implementation, together with a highly effective PMU. The continuity of PMU
staff, their full-time attention to the project, and access to the highest levels to resolve issues were key
factors in implementation. The active involvement of the central Bureaus in the implementation of
specific components strengthened the central/Kanwil links and provided a more integrated and
cohesive approach to the project. The success of individual components was also directly linked to the
effectiveness of the Bureau Directors, and their sense of ownership of the respective components. The
motivation and commitment of the Kanwil staff was also contributory to project achievements. The
Borrower also established effective relationships with other Government agencies such as the
provincial planning offices (BAPPEDAS), particularly for the use of the AlP, during the course of the
project.  Project reporting was comprehensive and timely and covenant compliance, although
somewhat delayed, was generally satisfactory.
G. Assessment of Outcome
30.   Overall, the project is rated as satisfactory. A rate of return was not calculated, since it would
be extremely difficult to quantify with direct monetary measures the benefits (discussed below), of the
highly varied and complex project components.
31.   There were no explicit performance indicators to measure project outcomes outlined in the
SAR. There were only output indicators, e.g. numbers of staff trained, which exceeded SAR targets.
Nevertheless, many of the benefits expected from the project have been met with substantial MPW
institutional improvements at the center and the Kanwil. Public works activities have been
deconcentrated to a strengthened Kanwil, which has been provided with the systems and procedures to
enable it to perform its new functions. It has been staffed with qualified and experienced personnel.
Responses to a brief and rapid survey on Kanwil attitudes to IDTP, if taken to illustrate behavioral
indicators, showed average scores for satisfaction on individual project interventions varying between



86% for the project related training to 92% for further continuation of the IDTP processes. The central
Bureaus were also strengthened and the linkages between the center and Kanwil considerably
improved. The institutional development is also illustrated in the decreased use of foreign consultants
as implementation was increasingly undertaken by local consultants, the IOE's and Ministry staff. The
introduction of the ABP system has meant that the public works program are beginning to be
prioritized, coordinated and with a single interface between MPW and the other key Ministries on
negotiations on the investment program. This is a major project achievement. Finally, key Ministerial
and other Decrees and regulations that have been used to legalize systems and procedures reflect
institutional indicators of successful outcomes. IDTP also improved systems introduced under MDP
and, thus, ensured the sustainability of previous project investments
32.   However, the project only partially met the benefits expected from the training component,
which is an important area of human resource development. Substantially more work is also required
in improving the utilization of the laboratories, which represent a major project investment.
33.   Although the policies have been implemented and the support systems are in place and
operational, it is too early to assess the full impact of the project in terms of increased effectiveness,
efficiency and productivity of public works activities. There are many assessments still required, for
example, to what extent are the Kanwils actually performing their technical guidance and supervision
role? How effectively has the AHP been used for prioritizing public works programs? How applicable
are the IDTP systems to local governments and how can MPW provide such support? The answers to
these questions, and the full achievement of project interventions will require time but the interventions
should be monitored and supported through other Bank-financed MPW  projects   under
implementation, and a comprehensive assessment made in a few years' time.
H. Future Operation
34.   The project has continued a process, begun under the Urban and Irrigation Sector Loans and
MDP that is long-term. Recent policy changes announced by MPW indicate that the next stages in the
decentralization process, the full transfer of responsibilities for public works activities, including
budgets, to the local governments is underway. MPW is seeking assistance for further capacity
building with the emphasis on continuing and sustaining the current IDTP investments and extending
them to the next level as indicated in its Operational Plan. Currently, there is no follow-up project for
IDTP although sector work on capacity building to support decentralization is planned. The Asian
Development Bank, however, includes an IDTP-type project to support local government in its lending
program.
I. Key Lessons Learned
35.   The project provides the Bank and Borrower with a number of lessons. These include:
(a)  Support for major institutional processes such as deconcentration and decentralization
requires a long-term perspective, a vision of a final outcome and a phased set of projects
to reach this objective. Together with projects such as the Urban and Irrigation Sector
Loans, MDP, IDTP and the proposed Local Government Institutional and Staff
Development projects represented such a vision and an incremental long-term program.
In hindsight, it is regrettable that the latter projects did not eventuate, since the local



- 10-
governments would have been more ready to undertake increasing responsibilities as
more activities were decentralized to them over time (paras. 25 and 34);
(b)  the lIDTP process would necessarily be slow and, perhaps, incomplete at project
closing since it requires major institutional and attitudinal changes. An ICR is too early
to capture the full impact of these changes and may not provide a full measure of the
success or failure of project efforts. The effects of IDTP should be further monitored
and assessed by reviewing its impact on other Bank-financed MPW projects under
implementation (para. 33);
(c)  IDTP illustrates the need for flexibility and adaptation required as national policies
overtake and, possibly, make redundant, the more focused sectoral changes that are
generally built into a project (paras. 6 and 25);
(d)  the need for sufficient continuity in Bank and Borrower staff is important. IDTP also
shows that it would be useful to involve staff from other Divisions in supervisions, if
their sectors would also be affected directly by the project interventions (paras.28 and
29);
(e)  IDTP has clearly illustrated that strong, effective and committed project management,
with the involvement of all the concemed agencies, and support at the highest level is
particularly beneficial to effective implementation. It also shows the importance of the
ownership of project components to ensure their success (para. 29);
(f)  the need for clear project performance indicators to measure progress and outcomes,
particularly measures for assessing the effectiveness of large TA components, as well
as independent impact assessments, including tracer studies, for training programs
(para. 28); and
(g)  as a more general point, the need for greater dissemination of individual sector
experiences on decentralization, both in the Bank and GOI, to guide future work as
decentralization policies continue to evolve in Indonesia



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
PROJECT
(Ln. 3112-IND)
PART HI. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial        Negliaible       Not applicable
(/)             (1)              V)                (V)
Macro Policies                       0               x                0                 0
Sector Policies                     [x               0                 0                 0
Financial Objectives                 Q               Q                [                  0
Institutional Development           El              0                 0                 0
Physical Objectives                 [                0                0                 0
Poverty Reduction                    Q               DJ                a 
Gender Issues                                        Q                                  l0]
Other Social Objectives              a               a                 o                 x
Environmental Objectives             Q               a                 a                  ]
Public Sector Management                             0                 0
Private Sector Development           D               0                 0                 0
Other (specify)                      Q                                 Q a
B. Proiect Sustainabilitv              Likelv                   Unlikelv                  Uncertain
(V)                       V)                        (V)
01                        0                         0



- 12 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactorv          Satisfactorv               Deficient
(1)                     (1)                       (v)
Identification                     E                       I                           0
Preparation Assistance                                     [l 0
Appraisal                            l                     [x                         E
Supervision                         0                      I3                         E
Hiel
D. Borrower Performance                      satisfactorv    Satisfactory     Deficient
(/)            (1)             (1)
Preparation                                  E               E              E
Implementation                              I               E               E
Covenant Compliance                         El              lx              El
Operation (if applicable)                    C              E               E
-highly                                          Hfighlv
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactorv   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El)            [EJ              El)                El



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose                    Year of                Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Public Works         To upgrade Ministry of Public Works  1983        Completed
Manpower Development   (MPW) Staff and to provide
Project (Ln. 2258-IND)    experimental training for contractors;
and to improve MPW's planning and
programming.
2. Highway Betterment    Highway rehabilitation and       1984           Completed
Project (Ln. 2404-lND)    institutional strengthening.
3. Irrigation Subsector  To improve operations and        1987           Completed
(Ln. 2880-IND)          maintenance of all irrigation systems
and to support policy reforms and
institutional strengthening.
4. Urban Sector Loan    To sustain the momentum in the    1987           Completed
(Ln. 2816-IND)          sector and to strengthen sector
institutions
5. Jabotabek Urban      Road rehabilitation and maintenance   1988       Under
Development             and institutional and policy                     implementation
(Ln. 2932-IND)          development
Following operations
1. Highway Sector Project  To develop technical capacity of the    1989  Completed
(Ln. 3133-IND)          road agencies at the central and
regional level as well as strengthening
the capacity of the road sector policy
formulation.
2. Second Highway Sector  Highway rehabilitation and      1994           Under
Loan (Ln. 3712-IND)     institutional strengthening of the               implementation
highway agencies at central and
provincial levels including human
resource development
Note:  The list includes selected loans from the infrastructure sector that either influenced the design of
the project or directly supported it.



-14 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      01/88                01/15/88
Preparation
Appraisal                                       01/89                11/05/88
Negotiations                                    05/89                06/05/89
Board Presentation                              07/89                07/25/89
Signing                                         08/89                08/24/89
Effectiveness                                   11/89                11/15/89
Midterm review (if applicable)                  10/91                06/92
Project Completion                              03/31/95             12/31/96
Loan Closing                                    12/31/95             12/31/96
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95            FY96   FY97
Appraisal Estimate              2.0        6.0  12.6    20.6    28.6      35.4    36.1      36.1
Actual                          2.64       9.7  18.0    24.1    29.8      32.8    35.0      35.4
Actualas%of Estimate            132        161   143     117      104        93      97     98
Date of Final Disbursement -
April 30, 1997
Note: As of 04/30/97 the balance in the special account was $692,832.22



Table 5A: Key Performance Indicators
Co_ oa                            D.       t        1989/90     1990/91      1991/92      1992/93      1993/94     1994/95    1995/96     1996/97           (hand
Fro n        Man-        Man-        Man-         Man-         Maw         Man-       Man-          Man-            ToWa
months      nonths      nxxths       months       months      months     months       months           Man-
month
I      Paome                               SAR                  64         174           174         14S          116          0          0                             676
Actul                20        177            93         121          325        114        231                            1,0S1
Vasiance     _      44) _3                   (81)    _    2           209        114         231                            405
2      LoaCl TrauinngProganuns             SAR                  400       1,675        1,780       1,430         1,425         0          0                            5,710
Actual              503       1,511         2,058      2,599          401          17        137                           7,281
_  Variance            108       (164)          278        1.169      (1.024)         17        187                             571
3      Managancatnmuatmion Sydtm            SAR                            263           333         172           50          0          0                             3I3
Actual                3        227            14         156          106         73           4                             5S3
Variance              3        (36)        (319)        (16)           56         73           4                           (236)
4      Progranuning and Plannink            SAR                                          275         275          275        275           0                           1,100
Actual                          22            75         115           55         39         125                            4S1
Variance              0         22          (200)      (160)         (220)      (186)        125                           (620)
5      Foreign Aid Coordination            SAR                              25            50          30            0          0          0                             105
Actual               23         20            17          44            7         59     1  133                             303
Variance             23         (5)          (33)         14            7         59         133             _               198
6      Financc                             SAR                              56            56          47            0          0          0                              159
Actual                                       150         241          509        146        376                            1,422
Variance              0        (56)           94         194          509        146        376                            1,263
7      Audita                              SAR                             113           113         112           12          0          0                             350
Actual                          23            97          45           51         1S         43                             232
Variance              0  .      90)         (16)        (67)           39         18         48  _                           U683
3      Logwiaicu                           SAR                             100           200         225          175          0          0                             700
Actual                          41            60          42          160         90         70                             463
Variance              0        (59)         (140)      (183)          (15)        90          70                           (238)
9      Legal                                SAR                             40            40           0            0          0          0                              30
Actual                           4            1S          63           45         31           0                             166
Variance              0        (36)         (22))         68           45         3/           0                              86
10     Library, Arduvi  nd Pubh           SABR                            167           122         100          100          0          0                             439
Inlonnation                         Actual                          254           10         121          38S         63          4                             943
Variaxce              0         87           (14)         21          288         68           4                            454
Laboratories                        SAR                             265           265        265          255           0                                       1,050
Actual                           0           276         243          711        301         193                           ,729
Variance              0       (265)           11         (22)         456        301        198                             679
Touls in Year                       SAR                 464       2,878         3,403       2,804        2,408       275           0                          12,237
Actual              554      2,279         2,966       3,795        2,758       1,006      I,375                          14,733
Variance             90       -599          -442         991          350        731      1374.5                          2495.5
Cuintl tive TcoAi                   SAR                 464       3.342         6,750      9,554        11,962    12,237      12,237         0
55                ,833         5799        9,594       12,352     13,353     14,733          O
Varianoe             90       (509)        (951)          40          390      1,121      2.496          0



Table 5B: List of Overseas Training Courses of IDTP
No.                Course Title                Start       Finish     Number of Participants    Staff     Location                  Remarks
Date        Date      Pusat  Daerah   Total   month
1.  New Town Development and               20-Mar-90   25-Sep-91       10        1      1 1     198 ENTRE LYONS             Contract
Management                                                                                     FRANCE                  Number: HK.03.o7.Bp.P3/lo
March 25, 1991
FF.3456088.01
2.   Study Visit to United Kingdeno         25-Jul-90    08-Aug-90       1       0       1        1 United Kingdom          Contract
Number: 001/PSPTKP/1990
July 11, 1990
Rp. 12.788.892 atau USS.6898
3.  New Information Technologies and       31 -Aug-92   20-Nov-92       4        0       4       12 AIT, Bangkok            Contarct
Computenised Library Services                                                                                          Number: KU.08.03-BPPSKAI
August 11, 1992
Rp.92.284.500
4.  Personnel Management                   16-Sep-92   05-Dec-92        8        3      1 1      33 UNSW, Australia
Contract 
Number: HK.02.07-BP.P31J03
5.  Coordination of Planning and           16-Sep-92    05-Dec-92       7        5      12       36 IJNSW, Australia      -August 14, 1992
Programming                                                                                                            AS 704.021.60
6.  Financial Management                    16-Sep-92   05-Dec-92       12       2      14       42 UNSW, Australia
7.  Training Managernent                   02-May-93   29-Jun-93       10        6      16       32 UNSW, Australia
and Malaysia
8.  Management Infonnation System          02-May-93   29-Jun-93       13        6      19       38 UNSW, Australia
and Malaysia            Contract
Number: HK.02.07.Bp.P31AI)
9.  Legal Matters                          09-Jun-93   07-Aug-93       I 1       5      16      32 UNSW, Australia       -August 13, 1993
and Malaysia            AS 1.069.592
10.  Resources Informtion Management        09-Jun-93   07-Aug-93       8        8      16       32 UNSW, Australia
and Malaysia
Total                                             84       36     120      456



Table SC: Allocation of Priority Staff Training Program (Staff-months)
PROGRAM                            1969/S           1990/91           11/92               199293             1993/94          1994/95         1995/94         1996/97             TOTAL
SAR    Actual   SAR    Actual    SAd   Atua          SAR       Actual    SAR    Actual   SAR   Actual   SAR  ActuaI  SAR    Actual    SAR              Actual
Pusdikint
Management
Prijectmnunzgmn-A    10.0    213      45.0     715       650     750       400       55S.8    40.0       00                                                       200.0       726.5
Shatdpeciaiat    15.0   291.7    65.0    1370       100.0   595.0      60.0    1,001.3    60.0       00                                                       300.0    2,025.0
Technical
Survey     5.0    12.0    15.0       148      200       00      200         0 0     100       00                                                         70.0       268
Specialist upgadig  20.0      0 0    100 0     55 0     140 0     0 0      100         00     90 0       0 0                                                      430.0        55 0
Training
TrainigMethods    300      440    1100      5848      1000     510       600        342     600       233              122           152                        360.0       7647
Training Maaement    20.0    21.0    70 0        69 0     70 0  1,095 0     40 0      972 4    40 0     377 7             55 7          45 3              29 6      240.0    2,665 7
Sub-Total        100.0   319.9   405.0    9320       4950  1,8160       300.0    2,566.7   3000     4010              679           605               296    1,600.0    6,2635
Dlikit Pencalran
(Water Reseures)
ProjectMangament    25.0    11.0   110.0        125     1150       0.0    100.0        0.0   100.0       00                                                       450.0        305
Tednical Upgrading    65.0    20.0   280.0      913     2850      200     2500         0.0   250.0       00                                                      1,130.0      131.3
oQM       40.0    125    1700        956      1700    1250      1500        00    150.0        00                              _                        6S0.0      2331
Sub-Total        130.0    50 5    560 0     199 4     570 0    145 0    5000        00    500 0       00                                                      2,260 0      394 9
Olklat Bhes Mamts
(HIghwys)
Project Manganent    15.0    23.5    60 0       10 0     50 0     0 0      50 0        0.0    50 0       0 0                                                      225.0        33 5
Techmical Updig      30.0      00    1300       368     1400      100      1200        0.0   1200        00                                                        540.0       468
oeM       20.0      0.0    95 0      58 0      90 0    36 0      S0 0       0.0    80.0        00 a_                                                    365.0       94.0
Sub-Total         65.0    235    2850       1048     2800      460      2500        00    2500        0 0                                                     1130.0       1743
Diklit Cipt Karva
(Hunma  itlImnta)
Project Managment    30.0     0.0    S0 0      43 3      80.0     0.0      70 0        0 0    70 0       0.0                                                      330.0       43 3
Techi calUpgading    50.0    44.5    1900       220     2000      130      1700        0 0    170.0      00                                                       780.0        795
OkM       25.0      00    1300       270      1250     180      1100        00 |1100          00                                                        500.0       450
Sub-Total        105.0    44.5   4000        923     4050      310      3500        00    3500        00                                                      1.6100       167S
TOTAL           400.0   508 4  1,650 0   1,328 4   1,750 0  2,038 0    1,400 0    2,5667  1.4000   401.0             67 9          60 5              29.6    6,600 0     7,000 4
Note: The bulk o the staff-months was reallocated to Pusdikiat for management and training as these wmre considered pdriorty. In addition, the Individual Direcorate General provided the necesary training
for hoe staff, utifizing heir own funds.



- 18 -
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study             at Appraisal/Redefined         Status           Impact of Study
1. Capacity Building for   Studying and prepanng  A number of studies   The studies were
local governments.a/    future local government    were done between  used as the basis of
institutional and        1988-89 by           the proposed Local
manpower development    Hasfarm/DHV. The  Governnent
projects.                studies were          Institutional and Staff
implemented by the    Development Project
Ministry of Home     prepared in 1991.
Affairs, although they  The project, however,
were financed from   was not processed.
the IDTP project.
a/ This study is included in the Loan Agreement, Schedule 2. para. 4 , but there is no description of the
study in the SAR. However, Annex 13 includes 60 manmonths of domestic and 20 staff-months of
international consultant services for assistance in the preparation of a local government institutional
and manpower development project.



- 19 -
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)    Actual/Latest Estimate(USSM)
Local     Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign   Total
Item                   Costs       Costs             Costs      Costs
Land                                    2.7        0.0       2.7      2.8        0.0      2.8
Civil Works                             1.8        0.8       2.6      3.0        0.0      3.0
Equipment, Furniture and Materials:
Laboratory Equipment                  0.5       4.6       5.1       1.8        4.6      6.4
Training/Office equipment & Furniture    1.5     3.3      4.8       2.7        0.0      2.7
Books and Library Material            0.1       0.4       0.5       0.7        0.0      0.7
Consultancv Services:
International Consultants             1.2       9.8       11.0      5.7        5.4     11.1
Domestic Consultants                  3.8       0.7       4.5       5.3        2.1      7.4
Training:
Overseas Training                     0.1       1.3       1.4       0.1        1.9      2.0
Local Training                        4.1       0.7       4.8       7.6       0.0      7.6
Incremental Costs                       6.2        1.1      7.3       9.3        0.0      9.3
Total Base Costs                      22.0      22.7      44.7      39.0      14.0    53.0
Physical Contingencies                  1.0        1.1       2.1
Price Contingencies                     4.3        2.9       7.2
Total Costs                           27.3      26.7      54.0      39.0      14.0    53.0
Irrigation Subsector Project
(Loan No. 2880-IND)
Civil Works (Comp-12)                                               1.0       0.0      1.0
Laboratory Equipment (Comp-12)                                      0.3       1.9      2.2
Highway Sector Project
(Loan No. 3133-IND)
Computer Equipment (Comp-4)           1.7       0.0       1.7       1.6       0.0      1.6
Laboratory Equipment (Comp-12)        0.0       0.6       0.6       0.0       0.4      0.4
Total Other Loans:                                                    2.9        2.3      5.2



- 20 -
Table 7B: Project Financing a/
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    ActualULatest Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign            Total
Source                    Costs     Costs                Costs      Costs
IBRD/IDA                      9.4       26.7      36.1      21.9       14.0         35.9
Domestic Contribution        17.9       0.0        17.9      17.1       0.0         17.1
TOTAL                       27.3      26.7       54.0      39.0       14.0         53.0
a/ Additional funding of USS3.2 million for the laboratories and equipment (Component 12) was received from the
Irrigation Subsector Project (Ln. 2880-IND) as proposed in the SAR; and S2.0 million for computers and
laboratory equipment (Components 4 and 12) from the Highway Sector Project (Ln. 3133-IND).



- 21 -
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
INDONESIA
Agreement    Section    Covenan Present  Original   Revised         Description of          Comments
t type   status  fulfillment fulfillment     covenant
date      date
LOAN       Sch. 5 para 1    5    C       11/30/89  03/30/90    Establish not later than
November 30, 1989 an
inter-ministerial advisory
board
Sch .5 para 2   5    C        11/30/89  03/30190    Establish not later than
November 30, 1989 a
Technical Committee
Sch. 5 para. 3  5    C        11/30/89  03/30/90    Establish not later than
November 30, 1989 a
Project Management Unit
Sch. 5 para. 4  10   C       02/28/90  12/14/90    Appoint by February 28,
1990, consultants to
provide services for (a)
improved coordination of
progranuning and planning;
(b) improved financial
management; (c)
management information
systems; and (d) improved
foreign aid collaboration
Sch. 5 para. 5  5    C        12/31/89  03/30/90    Establish by December 31,
1989, an informatics policy
working group
Sch. 5 para. 6  10   C       01/31/92              Carry out project in
accordance with an annual
action plan satisfactory to
the Bank
Sch. 5 para. 7    10   C      03/31/90  12/14/92    Appoint by March 31,
1990, MPW staff as task
managers and counterparts
to consultants
Sch. 5 para. 8  9    C        10/31/91   07/23/92    By October 31, 1991, carry  Regular reports were
out through the project  provided on project
management unit, a      progress.
detailed evaluation of
project implementation and
furnish copy to the Bank for
review
Sch. 5 para. 9    10   C      10/31/092 03/07/94    By October 31, 1992,    The appointments
appoint technical and adm, were delayed to early
staff in the Kanwil and  1994 and the MIS
Dinas PUP; and implement was implemented
the MPW info. system for  nationally
Kanwil and Dinas PUP in
N.&S. Sumatra, W. Java,
C. Java and E. Java in DKI
Jakarta, Yogyakarta, Bali
and South Sulawesi.



- 22 -
Covernnt types:
1. =  ArcounWaudits                                        S.  = Idigenous people
2. =  Finmna performance/revenue generation fiom           9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                      10.  = Project impleenwtaion not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds                11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectorw budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                         allocation
5 . =  Manageent aspects of the project or executing       12.  = Secorl or crosa-ectoi policy/ regulatcxy/institujional
agency                                                     action
6. =  Environmental covenants                              13.  = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlenent
S. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD =  conplied with after delay
CP = conplied with partially
NC = not complied with



- 23 -
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs a/
Stage of                  Planned                Revised                  Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks   US$ ('000)    Weeks    USS('000)    Weeks   USS ('000)
Through Appraisal            -           -                                  39.4       104.2
Appraisal-Board              -           -                                  27.2       79.1
Board-Effectiveness          -           -                                  14.0       40.6
Supervision                  -           -                                  99.7       167.0
Completion                 11.8        30.5         12.0        29.1        5.9         12.0
TOTAL                     11.8        30.5         12.0        29.1       186.2       402.9
a/ Data on "planned" and "revised" except for completion are not provided by the MIS.



- 24 -
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Number                      Specialized
Stge of          Month/         of         Days in        Staff Skills           Performance Rating
Project Cycle        Year       Persons       Field        Represented
Iniplemen.      Develop-
tation         ment          Types of
Status       Objectives     Problem
Through Appraisl       03/87       4                          Edzc. Spec.
Opertion Officer
Info. Specialist
Urban Specialist
04/88      4            26            Educ. Spec.
Hum. Res. spec.
Systems Analst
Info. Anaivst
Appraisal through       11/88      4           21             Educ. Spec.
Boad Approval                                                 Hum Res. Spec.
InsL Dev. Spec.
ODerations Assist
Board Approval         03.89       1                          Educ. Spec.
through Effectiveness                                         Human Res. Spec.
Inst Dev. Spec.
Operations Assist.
Supervision            09/89       2            12            Sr. Oper. Officer
Oper. Officer
02/90      3            16            Sr. Oper. Officer         2              1         Hiring of consultants
Info. Specialist
Oper. Officer
11/90      3            14            Sr. Oper. Officer         2              1         Strengthening the
TrnB Specialist                                   Bureau of Planning
Oper. Officer
02/91       3                         Sr. Oper. Officer         2               1        Currency
Info. Specialist                                  Depreciation
Tech. Edu. Spec.
11/91      4           10             Physical Planner          2              1        Coordination between
Tech Educ. Spec.                                  components
Info. Specialist
Techn. Educ. Spec.
04/92      2                          Physical Planner          2              1         Preparation of Kanwil
Oper. Officer                                     Staff
01/93      3            14            Physical Planner          1              1         Nomnajor issues
Oper. Officer
Tech. Educ. Spec.
GCeater integration
01/94      2            24            Oper. Officer             I               I        required in sysem
Trng Specialist                                   modules
Underutilization of
Training Centers
01/95       2           24            Oper. Officer            HS              HS        Substantial progen
Trng. Specailist
08/95      3            16            Oper. Officer             S              S         Delay in activities and
TmB. Specialist                                   outputs from training
Economist                                         conm4p nt
Completion             09/96       2            15Snr. Proj. Eon
____ ___ ___ __             Tr   Specialistroj



- 25 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3112-IND)
A Summary List of Decrees Issued under the Project
Component                      Decree                          Number/Date
I   Personnel                  Decree for the use of the Personnel  No. O1/SE/KP/1996-11 March 1996
Information system, including staff
planning, appraisal, job analyses
and performance assessment.
2   Strengthening Kanwil and   Ministerial Decree for MPW       No. 21 1I/M/1994-25 June 1994
Dinas                      organization.
3   Management of Training     Draft decree for training                        NA
management under preparation.
4   Management Information     Decree from the Secretary General  No. UM.01.01-SJ/544 - 26 May 1995
System (MIS)               on the use of PU-Net.
5   Programming and Planning    Decree from the Secretary General  No. PR.02.05-SJ362 - 19 April 1996
on planning/programming using the
AHP for public works activities.
6   Foreign Aid Coordination   Decree on the establishment and  No. 62/KPTS/SN1993 - 21 Sept. 1993
use of the for Foreign Aid MIS.
Ministerial Decree on establishment No.239/KPTS/1994 - 27 July 1994
of project management teams at the
Kanwil.
7.  Finance                     Ministerial Decrees on all aspects   No. 16/KPTS/1993 - 8 March 1993
of finance including, inter alia,  No. 118/KPTS/1993 - 8 March 1993
implementation of accounting    No. 258/KPTS/1994 - 16 August 1993
systems, guidelines for self-funding  No. 259/KPTS/1994 - 16 August 1993
units, verification and         No. 260/KPTS/1994 - 16 August 1993
accountability of public budgets,    No. 261/KPTS/1994 - 16 August 1993
cash inspection, and the use of  No. 262/KPTS/1994 - 16 August 1993
financial information systems for    No. 128/KPTS/1995 - 12 April 1995
monitoring of routine and       No. 129/KPTS/1995 - 12 April 1995
development budgets.            No. 07/KPTS/1996 - 3 January 1996
8   Audits                     Ministerial decrees on the use of    No. 90/KPTS/1993 - 27 February 1993
performance and program audits.    No. 414/KPTS/1993 - 15 Sept. 1993



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Component                      Decree                         Number/Date
9   Logistics                  Ministerial Decree on procurement,  No. 172/KPTS/1993 - 6 April 1993
including use of Standard Bidding
Documents.
10  Legal                     Decree on the establishment of the   No. 01/SE/Sh/III/1996 - 11 March
Legal Information System.       1996
11  Libraries, Archives and   Ministerial Decrees issued on   No. 362/KPTS/1992 - 14 April 1992
Public Information        establishment of library networks,   No. 342/KPTS/1993 - 18 May 1993
archive policies and management of No. 12/KPTS/1 996 - 10 January
public relations activities.
12  Laboratories (Research and    Ministerial Decrees on laboratory    No. 395/KPTS/1993 - 4 Sept. 1993
Development)              standards and accreditation.    No. 448/KPTS/1995 - 28 Nov. 1995



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
PROJECT
(Ln. 3112-IND)
Numbers of Graduates in Kanwils
T _eetical                                                      Non-technical                                                   Total Numbet ofOasdua&                   _
March 1992              Augst 1996                           March 1992                            August 1996               March 1992                  August 1996
All       iligha    lnadw3js    Toal                         I_ ligher  la.hlw's                   llal                  _jr_ 3li                   lladicld,s      'oIal
Graduates    Deree        Deree    Graduatcs  ChanSe    All Graduates         Degee  Degree         (;raduates  Chtuge    All Graduates       tegree   1),egree      (adate,   Change  % Chunge
Arch                          16           22          6           28          12             7            II          3           14          7             23            33           9           42          19         83
Sumater Utacs                  35          22          3           30         15              5             6          4           10          5             20            is          132          40          20         100
Sumaters Barak                15           13          16          29          14             5            12          1           23         38             20            ,5          27           52          32         160
Riau                           9           33          9           20         33              3            14          4           389        10             17            25          13           38          21         124
Jambi                          I           10          13          23          I 5            0             4           3           7          7              8            14          16           30          22        275
Sumatra Sclatan               I            23          8           31         20              9            21          10          331        22             20            44          I t          62          42        210
asngkulu                       7           12          3           15          8              5            14          3           17         12             12            26           6           32          20         167
Laqung                         9           15          5           20         3 3             4             9          3           12          8             133           24           8           32          19         146
DKI Jakana                    12          20           15          35         23              3            10          7           17         14             13            30          22           32         37         247
Jaw& Rant                     I8 I          5          29          44         26              10            9          8           17          7             2t            24          37           61         33          l33
JawaTengah                    16           16          15          31         15              3            14          31          25         22             19            30          26           56         37          195
Of Yoyakatta                  9            15          23          38         29             12            13          9           22         10             21            28          32           60         39         136
JawaTimur                     31          28           4           32                        132           15          6           21          9             41            43          10           53          10         23
KaltintanBaramt                7           15          2           17         10              4             5          2           7          3              33            20          4            24          13         338
KalimantanTengah               6           7           6           13          7              6             S          4           12          6             12            135          0           25          13         108
KalimantantnSelut             I            30          2 2         32          3              4            I3          3           14         10             15            21           5           26          33         73
Kalimanta nTimur               8           6           5           33          3              6            20          14          34         28            134            26          19           45          31        221
SulaweSi UtArA                 9           9           10          19         10              I 3           9          7           16          3             20            38a         17           35          15         75
SulawesiTengah                 a           10          4           14          6              4            10          2           12          8             12            20          6            26          14         117
SulawesiSehatan               17           19          9           28         33             3             135         9           24         13             28            34          18           52         24          16
Sulawesi Tenggpra             10           13          5           i3          8              3            6           0           6          5              11            19          5            24         13         IIY
Nlaluku                       13           16          6           22          9              9            12          3           15         6              22            21          9            37         15          68
Bali                          13            3           I          132        -1             I1            19          8           27         16             24            30          9           39          15         63
Num Tensggaa iafat            I 3          13          4           17          6             12                        3 1         132        a              23            24          3           29           6          26
Nus tetnggaraTismu             5           3           13          21         16              7            10          2           12         5              12            18          13          33          21         175
Irian Jtya                    10           12          7           19         9               5            9           I           10         5              15           21           a           29          14         93
Timor Timur                    7           7           4           3 3         4              3            4           1           5          2              10            I I         1            16          6         60
TOITAI.S                      33l         370         2321        610         299            177          3403        139         440        263            4KS           679         371         1050         5612       35



- 28 -                          Annex 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3112-IND)
A Summary List of Key Documents Produced under the Project
Management and Training Guidelines and Handbooks by Component
A.    Personnel (Component 1)
1. Personnel Planning Guidelines
2. Job Analysis Guidelines
3. Performance Assessment Guidelines
4. Personnel Management Infonuation System (MIS) Guidelines
B.    Strengthening Kanwil and Dinas (Component 2)
1. Ministry of Public Works Organization
C.    Management of Training (Component 3)
1. Planning for Provincial Training
2. Training Management Information System
3. Curriculum Development
4. Instructional Techniques
D.    Management Information System (Component 4)
1. Ministry of Public Works Data Communication and Executive Information System
2. Geographical Information System (GIS) and MIS Integration Manual
3. Manual on MIS Installation in Kanwil PU
E.    Programming and Planning (Component 5)
1. DSS/AHP System on Public Work Infiastructure Synchronization Program
2. Manual on AHP Model Preparation (using Expert Choice)
3. Group Weighting on DSS Hierarchical Criteria in Public Works Infrastructure
Program
4. Procedures in Preparing Program Synchronization using the AHP Methodology in
Kanwil PU
5. Technical and Operational Manual on Planning Information Systems



- 29 -                         Annex 3
F.    Foreign Aid Coordination (Component 6)
MIS on Foreign Aid Cooperation
G.    Finance (Component 7)
1 . Guidelines for the Withdrawal of Proceeds of Foreign Loans/Grants within the
Ministry of Public Works.
2. Guidelines on Cash Audits
3. Guidelines on Book Keeping and Preparation of Financial Reports for Projects
4. Guidelines on Self-Financing Units (Unit Swadana)
5. Guidelines on Verification of Budget Accountability
6. Guidelines on Financial Administration.
H.    Audits (Component 8)
1. Guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures on Performance Assessment
2. Guidelines on Construction Control
3. Guidelines on Program Assessment
I.    Logistics (Component 9)
1. Standard Bidding Documents on Goods and Services Procurement (ICB, LCB)
2. Guidelines on Bid Evaluation
3. Guidelines and Standard Operating Procedures for Goods and Services Procurement
4. Guidelines for Contracting based on Unit Cost
5. Guidelines on Post-Audits for Goods and Services Procurement
J.    Legal (Component 10)
1. Guidelines on the Legal Information System
2. Guidelines on CDS/ISIS Operation Program
K.    Libraries, Archives and Public Information (Component 11)
1. Guidelines on Manpower Development in Libraries
2. Guidelines on Library Services
3. Guidelines on Archive-Retention
4. Guidelines on Public Information Activities in Kanwil PU
L.    Laboratories (Component 12)
1. Laboratory Classification and Accreditation in the Public Works Sector
2. Guidelines on the Effective and Efficient use of the Laboratories of the Kanwil PU



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Ln. 3112-IND)
Status of Technical Assistance
_________               ACTUAL MAN WIONTHS                        _        _         __
NO             D-*i-                     SBAR          1909l10         I0 1 Y991       191l12992       1992993        1993Y1994        1994 I995          1995/1996          19961997            TOW               Not.
_       [ood    __   Local  Fowie   Local  F.W    Loca   Fmcs  Local  Fom              Local    _in    Local   For         Local   Fow        Loca Fl           Local
I C     fEl                          63.0  144.0    .                9.4   17.0   34.0   40.5   20.4   38.6    0.5   48.0                     50.S    .          48.0          ")  38.0   64.3  260.5   ')1a.ad
2 Conponit 3                        203.0  180.0    ,        .       9.0    11.0   50.0   64.0   49.7   67.4    8.0   54,0                    53.3          '')  12.0    .       )   5.0   116.7  272.7    C      _mp..d C
3 Co.ogdin.IcPact I                  35.0    0.0    .                6.0            11.0            I 11.0                  . 11.0             . 120  -  9.0      -       6.S               66.5     0.0
4 Conyonu 4                          57.0   21.0           .          .2     1.0   23.0    11.0    9.0   15.7    -         24.0               57.5    -         117.0               29.0   40,2  255.2  *1I.. l om d
5 Cmpompg 5                         101.0  210.0    .                9.0    8.2   36.8   49.4    9.8   58.7    .           462                80.0              1160                40.0   55.5  398.5      C       _insol 13
6 Cowpmom 6                          31.0    0.0    .                9.0     .      12.0     .       3.0    .-                                                                       -      24.0    0.0
7 Componn 7                          42.0  120.0    .                3.7    2.5    18.0   36.0    5.7   54.0    2.0   43.0                    32.0    .          22.0                .      294   189.5
s c ruaw Packet M                    30.0    0.0    .        .       7.0    .       10.0     -      11.8    2.0   12.0   12.0    6.0          12.0    3.0        12.0    1.0         7.0   50.8   45.0
9 ComPonm 8                          52.0   60.0                     1.0   22.4    12.0   56.2    3.0   24.8    .           1.6    .                   .         20.0    .           .      16.0  125.0
10 Cmapcan89                          12.0   36.0                     2.5     5.0     3.0   24.0             12.0    .               .    *)   4.0    -       ') 14.0                I -)   8.0    5.5    7.0
II CadonatlO                          12.0   60.0    .                4.0   13.0    4.0    24.0              6.0    .                .    ^-)  24.0    .          50.0    .          41.0    8.0  158.0
12 cospoad II A                    1-                                         8.9            10.5            9.8     .      12.8                3.2                .      .           .       0.0   45.2
13 CaInp.09I IB                        0.0   36.0             .               22              4.5    .       4.1             2.7     .          6.5                7.0                        0.0   27.0
14 C    _mp      (I IC                                .       .              12.0    .       25.0            14.0           35.0    .          49.0    .           .                          0.0  135.0
15 tI2(bOidmvdw
md uq wvinw)                        0.0   70.0                            25.0             5.0    .          .            -       .          .         .                .                  0.0   30.0
16 C-apmt 2B MOIHA)                   20.0   60A0                    20.0   60.0    .                                                .          .       . .                .          .      20.0   60.0 No dohd W.medom
17 C_     i 2A (Og_m," Sii    b*)    40.0  120.0                     10.0   16.0    .                        - .                                    .         *)  38.0    .    -'   27.0    10.0   11.0
18 Ca p.g'A 2C (C,-wdiii of a
implm     1)                                                       - .  .                 .       112.0   27.0 102.0   72.0    .            36.0    .          36.0 0             28.0   24.0   1 99.0
19 Co.p.t 2 DIKanwl buildi)            0.0  120.0    .-                                                                            -      -                            -              -       0.0    0.0
20 Co        13                      108.0   180.0    4.0    4.0   11.0   27.6    10.0   46.7    5.0   32.5    .             .                   .        .         .        .               300   110.5
21 1C4         13 (I st aion)                                                                         6.0   38.0   101    92.0    6.0          42 0                - .       .               22.1   172.0
22 Componlt 13 (2nd a ionu)                                                                                                          6.0       40.5    11.2       84.0    7.0        6035   24.2  18 5 0
TOTAL              I 311.0 1,417.0 8   4.0 1   4.0  1  9.  237.8    223.7   3 36.8  146.4 1 404.61  85.6 1 443.3 1  30.0       490.7 1  23.2      876.0|  14.8 1    273.5  607.2 2,26.4|
Man-months of consultancy
eo                                                                                                                                                           40
198S109  1991V1991  1991/1M    191993   1993/1994   1994/1993    92"19%6   18901997                                                  .-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3112-IND)
Lbt orcultant Contrwts
Total
Component               Conrutant              Man Month              cost                                 Output                                          Remas
Forign       Local        USS
I&3               Mott Mc. Donald          247.5        533.5         4,998 a. Peronnel Admnitrain (Parsonnel Infomation ystman  nng      Complted
b. Traininr  Administrtion (Trang M g, Info. Systen)         (Cer devlopmt *udr pres)
2-A 9                  BCEO                  10.0         31.0          271 Rewew of MPW Organstaon                                       Compltd
2-B                 Hasfarm Dian            20.0         60.0          354 Study on Loa Govennnt Institution                              Conmltd (done by MOHA Consultant)
_(Minitry ofHome Affair)
2-C                  Bina Kasys             24.0        199.0        1,557 Implcmentation monitoring/Assistanc to 27 Kanwil PU            Compleed
Packae.111               Kmpa
4,5,6,7          _                           199.9       333.2         5,323 a. MIS (Inforanfion, Communication, Hardwarc, Software,       Competd ( scroniato syst
___________                                                   Training Coordination)                                      enhacd in F. Y. 97/9S)
lb. PPBS (Synchrmnization system, Monitoing and Evaluation
______________                                                Program Trainig)                                                                                               _
_______________                                                                       c. Forign Loan/Grant Administration and Monitoring Infonrmton 
________________                                 _______                                 sy m ,  Training
d. Fmancing sdrinistration & Accointing, Tra g               __
3                   LMUI 1/                16.0       125.0           791 Control & Audit                                               Completed
9                 Virama Karys              5.5         77.0          246 Procureinent Adninistration/(MONEV, ICB, LCB/Training         Competed
10                 Virama Karya             8.0        15S.0          315 Lcgal Traininal Infornation system                             Completed
11-A                  PD1I LIPI              0.0         45.2           70 Libray administration and Infonnation system (Training)        Completed
II-B                  LAN 2/                 0.0         27.0           30 Archive administration (Training)                              Completd
I-C                     LAN                  0.0        135.0          231 Public Information ytem (Hardware and software trainig)        Completed
12                 Viranu Krya              0.0         30.0          115 Design & Supervision on Laboratoitun Building                  Completed
13                  Bina Karya             76.3        467.3         2,920 Assince to PMU                                                Comptidc
______________  _______  ________ (Contract Prepation, reort writing, monitoring and evaluation)
TOTAL                                        6072       2,326.7       17,771                                                                                                              0) X
1/ IMUI - Langg Maunse t UnMeamity 1nonesia
2/ LAN - Lembagp Adminitrasi Negara



- 32 -
APPENDIX A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3112-IND)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
1.    SUMMARY
Following upon the Manpower Development Project, which provided some systems for the Ministry,
but which did not provide for sufficient strengthening of staff, the IDTP, which ran from 15th
November 1989 until 31st December 1996, has been successful in:
-  providing the basis for the new organisation structure of the Ministry that strengthens the centre
and the Kanwils (defined in Kepmen 211/94) to enable it to support decentralisation of public
works better.
-  strengthening Kanwils by adding functions to their organisation structure and by improving the
capabilities of staff so that they can provide the services that are required of them under PP 6/88
for the provincial organisations.
-  assisting in up-grading staff and equipment and in changing attitudes to give a significantly more
professional approach to management within the Bureaus, Pusdata and Pusdiklat.
- providing an advanced decision support system that gives the Kanwils and in turn the Provincial
Works Offices a consistent method of recommending priorities of potential projects from a
Provincial viewpoint and which also allows the Centre to re-evaluate the priorities to take into
account National objectives.
soils and building materials testing laboratories that were equipped to a standard to provide for
basic testing and by providing the Inspector General with the tools to audit the construction
supervision process.
-  providing supporting systems for:
-  personnel,
-  the determination of training needs and management of training,
-  preparation of training materials,
-  an advanced data processing network at the centre,
-  local area networks in the Kanwils all linked through PU-net and
-  new accounting systems that meet the latest financial regulations and which take advantage
of up-to-date computer technology.
In addition the project has:
-  improved staff and management systems in the Bureau KLN.
-  strengthened the Inspectorate General and provided new systems for performance and
programme audit supported by appropriate training.
-  provided standard bidding and contract documents for ICB and LCB for works and goods and
the procurement of consultancy services.



- 33 -
improved the Ministry's legal service by training both lawyers and non-lawyers in legal matters
and by the provision at both the centre and the provinces of a comprehensive list of laws and
regulations that are appropriate to public works.
improved handling of archives, the management of the Ministry's libraries and arrangements for
relationships with the public in the provinces.
The implementation of these results has meant that the Ministry was able to respond to the
management demands placed upon it by regulations that came into force at the beginning of Repelita
VI.
The Project has reached its goals under the direction of the top management of the Ministry of
Public Works, (especially the Minister of Public Works, the Secretary General as Project Director and
the Minister's special expert on manpower development as the Head of the Technical and Inter-
Ministerial co-ordination teams). The Project was executed by a team consisting of a strong central
PMU and a PIU for each component, each PIU covered the work of one Bureau or other organisational
unit at the centre, and the Heads of the Kanwils who implemented the Project in the Provinces
The Ministry was supported by teams of consultants, who were controlled and assisted by the
PMU consultants. A particular feature of the consultancy was that, whereas at the beginning of the
Project much of the work was done and controlled by foreign consultants; towards the end local
consultants were carrying out virtually all of the consultancy work.
The Ministry is satisfied that the objectives of the SAR have been achieved and is looking to
build upon the success of the Project and further develop the institution to enable it to meet challenges
that are foreseen in the changing style of Government.
In line with this, considerable work is required to meet all of the requirements of PP 45/92
which provides for the Dinas level II to become the centre of implementation in all sectors. In the case
of public works this means the District Public Works Office. This work would need to centre on
improving the capability of PU staff through improved education and training and on extending the
Institutional Development and Training Project systems from the Kanwil/Provincial Public Works
Office to the District Public Works Offices.
An additional loan is being sought to fund the greater part of the programme outlined above.
2. BACKGROUND
The Institutional Development and Training Project followed on from the Manpower
Development Project which was completed in 1988. That project had prepared the ground for the
Institutional Development and Training Project and had installed some systems and procedures.
However, because it took place before decentralisation it did not fully meet the needs of Government in
decentralising and accordingly it was not fully implemented.
The objective of the Institutional Development and Training Project as defined in the World
Bank's Staff Appraisal Report is:
t   to improve the co-ordination ofplanning and to contribute to the improvement
of the implementation ofpublic works activities, and to assist in implementation of the
Borrower's policies for deconcentration and decentralisation."
Government policy preparing the Ministry of Public Works for decentralisation of public works
to the provincial and District Public Works Offices is defined in PP 14/87 and confirmed in PP
45/92, which covers the subject of regional autonomy and which specifically nominates
kabupaten/kotamadya (District) government as the centre of all decentralised activity. PP 6/88
is the legislation defining the role of Kanwils in deconcentrated Government.



- 34 -
The loan agreement for the Institutional Development and Training Project was signed
on 24th August 1989 and it became effective on 15th November 1989. The closing date of the
loan was 31st December 1995.
The first consultancy contracts were signed on 7th June 1990 and the two major
consultancy packages, Packages I and m were signed on 31st January 1991 and 3rd December
1990 respectively.
Implementation started late in 1991 with trials in Yogyakarta, East Java and West Java
and by the end of 1993 was largely complete across the project. However some aspects could
not be completed on time because of the delayed start of the two main consultancy packages
and the Bank agreed to an extension of loan closing date by one year to 31 st December 1996.
3.    POSITION BEFORE THE IDTP
Before the IDTP the Ministry developed public works largely through the Directors
General. None of the Secretariat General and its Bureaus as well as Pusdata and Pusdiklat was
equipped with any of, strong management, suitable staff, sufficient equipment in the form of
computers or suitable systems. The results of MDP 1 were not fully implemented because they
were not entirely suitable and also because insufficient attention had been given to ensuring
that they were sustainable. The result was that the three Directorates General were acting to a
great extent as three separate entities, each going its own way and each with its own systems
and each presenting a different face to Government, lending agencies and other outside parties.
The Kanwils were weak and generally not capable of assuming any of the roles placed upon
them by PP 6/88.
Although computers were widely used in the Ministry, each Directorate General
followed its own purchasing policy and they had all chosen different makes of machine running
different operating systems. The result was that it was not easy and often not possible to
transfer data rapidly and reliably between the different systems, although Pusdata had made
some progress in centralising data on its IBM mainframe.
With no central planning or management information, the Minister was not able to
receive prompt and accurate management information.
Without the Institutional Development and Training Project, it would have been
extremely difficult for the Ministry to assume any of the management roles placed upon it by
the requirements of Repelita VI, nor could it have managed the change to decentralised
implementation of public works through an organisation deconcentrated to the Kanwils.
4.    RESULTS
The main changes in management of the Ministry that has taken place during the
Institutional Development and Training Project are:
* The centre is organised regionally within the technical Directorates General. This is
an adaptation of one of the recommendations contained in the Institutional
Development and Training Project's report on the organisation of the Ministry,
which recommended that the Directors General's offices themselves should become
regional offices, with Technical Directors for each of Water Resources, Roads and
Human Settlements.
* The Ministry now operates more as a single entity with central co-ordination of
planning and there is also an information system that allows the Minister to request
and to receive the top-level management information that he needs to have effective
control of public works development.



- 35 -
In addition to these changes in organisation structure and management style, the Institutional
Development and Training Project has produced results at the centre and in the provinces as
detailed below.
4.1    Main tasks
With responsibility for implementation of public works being decentralised to Provincial and
District Public Works Offices, the Central Ministry of Public Works has also had to
deconcentrate its control and assistance roles to the Kanwils in order for these roles to be
effective. The main tasks carried out by the Institutional Development and Training Project
were:
to strengthen the organisation of the Kanwils. This was done by;
 redefining the organisation of the Kanwils to provide better support to public
works in the provinces. Specifically sections were added to give the Kanwils a
capability in legal matters and to improve their management of archives and
public relations.
 extending central systems to the Kanwils. The systems for management of
training, personnel management, planning, programming and reporting,
accounting and financial reporting, and foreign aid relationships are now
extended from the centre to the Kanwils.
o increasing the number of qualified personnel in the Kanwils,
o changing some key staff to more suitable people, who were usually promoted
from within or transferred from projects,
o training all Kanwil staff and
o providing them with the equipment that is needed to carry out their
responsibilities.
It was also necessary to provide some training for staff at Dinas level 1 as part of preparing for
decentralisation.
- the primary tool provided for the Kanwils was a decision support system and its associated
management information. The decision support system provides for assigning a range of
priorities and weights against different factors affecting the decision whether and when to
implement a particular project. The provincial results are then co-ordinated at the Centre by
the Bureau of Planning. This system has been implemented at all Kanwils and in the Centre
and has been used for establishing the programme for financial year 1997/98.
* the second key tool provided for the Kanwils was a total of twenty seven soils, building
materials and water testing laboratories, of which eighteen were financed through the
Institutional Development and Training Project. Construction took place between 5 January
1990, when the first construction contract was awarded and mid 1991. The laboratories were
completely equipped under five supply contracts that were awarded between 20th September
1990 and 5th November 1990. Staff were trained in testing procedures and management in
the operation of such laboratories. The Ministry defined three classes of testing laboratory as
follows:
Class A    which are capable of supporting a full range of design and field supervision of
construction of buildings and highways and of monitoring water quality.
Class B    which are capable of giving limited support to design and field supervision and
monitoring water quality.
Class C    to give limited support to field supervision and monitoring water quality.



- 36 -
By the end of financial year 1996/97 all provincial testing laboratories were fully accredited to
Qualification C in testing water samples, construction materials and soils.
This improved ability to test construction materials was further supported by implementing
within the Inspectorate General a system for auditing the construction supervision activities
that are carried out on projects.
4.2.   Supporting systems
The above main tasks were directly supported by the following:
* a new personnel administration system covering:
 a revised and updated personnel data base that lists all staff with Ministry of Public Works
employment numbers wherever they are working, together with all other staff working at
the central Ministry and its Kanwils,
 a staff planning system and a career development and performance appraisal system and
 a personnel information system.
* Pusdiklat has developed the structure of an education system for MPW employees that is
aimed at upgrading staff from largely High School graduates to bachelor's degrees.
* a new system for determining training needs from personal appraisals and for co-ordinating
training throughout the Ministry. This co-ordination includes standardised formats for training
materials no matter which department within the Ministry prepares them and the provision of
a list of courses that are available within the Ministry. There is also a training management
system which is co-ordinated with the personnel system and a new system for analysing the
cost of training.
* the Ministry's management of computerised systems has been made more professional and the
systems have been completely overhauled during the Project and there is now a Local Area
Network in the Centre and one in each Kanwil. Communication is possible between the
Centre and all of the Kanwils through the Ministry's own country-wide network. Subject to
security restrictions data can be shared between all Central units and with the Kanwils. There
are staff in all Kanwils who are capable of managing local area networks and operating staff
have been trained in appropriate systems.
* systems for accounting in both the Kanwils and in the Centre. These systems run on the local
area networks and data is transmitted by and received from Kanwils over the country-wide
network.
4.3.   Ancillary work
In addition to the above supporting work, the following ancillary work was carried out. This
work was aimed at improving the professionalism and effectiveness of the Ministry, particularly in the
provinces and included a review of the Ministry's organisation to define how it should be better
organised to enable it to respond better to its responsibilities after decentralisation and deconcentration:
* the decentralisation study led to the realisation that key Bureaus as well as Pusdata and
Pusdiklat needed to be considerably strengthened and this has been done by transferring new
staff into key positions in the Bureau of Planning and into both Pusdata and Pusdiklat. The
result of this has been to transform these departments into strong organisations that are
capable of providing management and leadership both at the centre and in the provinces.
* improvements to staff and management systems in the Bureau of Foreign Co-operation. This
provides for better tracking of progress of foreign loans and grants, from inception of the loan
through to completion of procurement of all goods, services and works. The system has been



- 37 -
installed in both the centre and in the Kanwils and uses common data with the planming
system being operated by the Bureau of Planniing and the accounting system being run by the
Bureau of Finance.
* the role of the Inspectorate General was strengthened through provision of audit systems for
performance and programme audit. The systems were documented and training material
provided. Audit staff were trained. Most Inspectorate staff were converted from structural
staff to functional staff on 1st October 1996. The change is aimed at making audit staff more
professional.
* three sets of new bidding and contract documents were prepared during the Project, the first
set was based upon the original briefing and the second set was prepared when the IBRD
prepared a new standard General Conditions of Contract that they require to be used on all
projects, but which could not be used as they stood as they conflicted in some respects with
Indonesian law. At approximately the same time, the GoI published new financial regulations
and the two sets of changes were incorporated in the Ministry's standard documents. It was
then discovered that the Bank had changed its standards once more in 1995 and the latest set
of documents reflect 1BRD Guidelines for Procurement 1995. Bidding and contract
documents are provided for each of Goods, Works and Consultancy Services.
* a procurement tracking system has been installed which is based upon independent systems
from the three Directors General.
* the Ministry's legal capability has been upgraded through the establishment of new legal
functions at each Kanwil, through training of lawyers in specialist legal subjects and non-
lawyers to improve their awareness of the legal impact of their work. Lawyers are assisted in
their work through provision of a legal database that lists all legislation that affects public
works at all levels. This list has key words inserted in it and is available at all Kanwils.
* the Ministry's central archives at Citeurup have been improved and much superfluous material
has been weeded. At least one librarian has been fully trained in each library and there is a
more professional approach to their operation. The Ministry's public awareness programme
has been enhanced and information centres in each provincial capital are being improved.
There are now embryonic libraries in each Kanwil.
5.    METHOD OF ACHIEVING THE RESULTS
The Project has achieved its results through the following methods:
. A strong Project Management Unit was established, with Project Implementation Units
comprising Ministry staff from the controlling sections of the Ministry. The Head of the PMU
answered directly to the Secretary General and the Heads of the PIUs in turn answered to the
Head of the PMU. The allocation of budgets followed this organisation structure.
 Each component was placed under the control of one section of the Ministry's organisation,
the implementing unit. These were the seven Bureaus in the Secretariat General, Baiitbang,
the Inspectorate General, Pusdata and Pusdiklat.
* Consultants were appointed for design and implementation of the work. The consultants were
assisted at all times by In-Office Experts from the implementing units and were controlled by
the respective PIUs.
* Each system was well supported with legislation in the form of Ministerial decrees, system
documentation, training materials and guidelines.
* The products of the Components were applied initially at the Centre and then in trials in
selected provinces, followed by general application in all 27 Provinces. In each Province an



- 38 -
Implementation Team was established to ensure proper involvement of all concerned at both
Kanwil and Dinas. Implementation was carried out by joint teams led by the PIU with the
assistance of the Component consultant, and assisted by the following:
o  Local, on-the-job training, which accounted for approximately 50% of all of the
training funded by the Institutional Development and Training Project
o  Diklat, using all six Diklatwils
o Diklat at the Centre
6. IMPLEMENTATION
6.1. Organisation
The organisation that was established from the outset was continued through the duration of the
project with only minor changes in personnel and it achieved the main objectives of the Project.
This organisation was able to overcome difficulties as they arose while at the same time
maintaining control over progress and quality of the work that was done. An example of the kind
of problem that arose and was resolved occurred at the beginning of the Project, when Bappenas
needed additional data on the lump sum items of consultancy that were incorporated in the
contracts for the two main components. By the time that the problem had resolved, the
consultants had been unable to keep all of the staff originally proposed and replacement staff had
to be reviewed and on occasion turned down as being unsuitable. Resolution of these two
problems resulted in the two major consultancy contracts being awarded nearly a year late.
In spite of this delay, the Project was ready and in a position to provide the Ministry with the
organisation, personnel and systems that were needed to implement Government's policy for
decentralisation in Repelita VI.
6.2. Staffing of consultancies
Although the initial consultancy packages were heavily staffed with foreign consultants during the
design and initial implementation stages, the bulk of implementation was carried out initially by
Indonesian consultants and latterly by Ministry staff, often the IOEs assisted by trained staff from the
Kanwils. Towards the end of the Project only three individual foreign consultants were involved.
6.3. Factors for success
It is the Ministry's view that the success of the project was due to the following factors:
1. The direction of the top management of the Ministry of Public Works, (especially the Minister
of Public Works, the Secretary General as Project Director and the Special Assistant to the
Minister on Human Resource Development as the Head of the Technical and Inter-Ministerial
co-ordination teams).
2. Establishment of a strong system of project management, with a relatively small PMU
providing central control and co-ordination.
3. The award of consultancy contracts that followed work unit responsibility, for example, a
contract for improvement of the work of the Bureau of Law. This was such a key aspect of
achieving results that project management packaged components together as noted in point 5
below rather than to combine consultancy on related subjects under one or other of the
controlling departments, for example there might have been a temptation to group the
relatively small contracts for work for the Bureaus of Law, General Affairs and Logistics
under one management unit in say the Bureau of General Affairs in order to reduce the
number of PIUJs answering to the PMU. This temptation was resisted and as a result the lines
of responsibility were clear and the priorities of the controlling departments were solely to
implement their departments' work.



- 39 -
4. Replacing key staff in the Bureaus, notably the Bureau of Planning, Pusdiklat and Pusdata
with individuals who are capable, motivated to succeed and professional.
5. Packaged contracts where the work of two components impinged one on the other, for
example personnel and training were grouped in one package. This arrangement made co-
ordination easier.
6. Day-to-day control through PlUs formed of personnel from the relevant work unit in the
Ministry.
7. The active support of the project by the Kanwils, who were active in implementing the project
in the provinces
8. The use of foreign expertise during the design stage when new ideas and techniques are to be
tested.
9. Involving Indonesian consultants and the IOEs from the Ministry throughout the design stage
and then making them responsible for continued implementation.
10. Using the IOEs and the PIUs for institutionalising the changes that were made.
11. Pressing forward on the issuing of various Ministerial Decrees that make it mandatoTy for
departments at the centre and the Kanwils to use the results of the Institutional Development
and Training Project.
IBRD staff also made a significant contribution to the success of the Project, the details of which
are contained in the following section.
7. THE ROLE OF THE BANK
The IBRD impacted on the Project in three ways:
* through missions, which were sometimes annual and sometimes twice yearly.
* both formally and informally through RSI
* formally with Washington
7.1. Missions
The missions were most useful, initially in establishing the Project, but more significantly during design
and implementation, when their presence served at least four purposes:
* a review of Project progress for assuring Washington that progress was satisfactory
* this same review  would re-assure Project Management that they were progressing
satisfactorily and in the right direction.
* assisting Project management with obtaining high-level Ministry decisions or action when
necessary.
* they were able to review the real position on the ground and from time-to-time were able to
agree when conditions described in the SAR were no longer pertinent and they could then
agree to modify the original detailed Terms of Reference with a minimum of explanation in
writing and consequent delay.
It would have been helpful if the Bank could have maintained a more regular schedule of a mission
every six months to coincide with the publishing of the Half-Yearly Report and it is the
recommendation of the Ministry that the Bank should attempt such a schedule on all future projects. It
would also have been helpful if one of the twice yearly missions could take place during preparation of
the development budget (DIP) for the following year,



- 40 -
7.2. Resident Staff in Indonesia
Formal and informal contact with RSI was infrequent but RSI was particularly useful when giving
advice on Bank procedures or requirements and it was possible to obtain action through RSI that could
not be achieved in other ways.
7.3    Washington
Communications with Washington were almost always, by their nature, formal. The bulk of
correspondence was related to obtaining no objection letters for the various stages of the procurement
process. The Bank was not always able to respond to requests for NOLs as quickly as the Ministry
would have liked and it would be helpful if the issuing of certain NOLs could be delegated from
Washington to RSI. An example is the NOL in respect of contract addenda which change the contract
sum by less than 10%, which is not required by Washington, but which is needed by the GOI before
payment can be made against a contract.
7.4   Standard Procurement Documents
As recorded in paragraph 4.3, the Ministry has prepared three separate sets of procurement documents
at different times. The last two of these have been largely prompted by the IBRD issuing mandatory
standards, one in 1992 and one in 1995. Neither of these mandatory standards was well thought out,
that issued in 1992 requires considerable editorial changes within the body of the General Conditions
and is difficult to use as it requires a command of English that is not generally available in the Ministry.
The second is FIDIC 1993, which has several matters of principle that are not suited to the Indonesian
environment. Notably these are: a) nominated sub-contractors, b) dayworks and c) remeasured
contracts.
8.    CONTINUING INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Institutional Development and Training Project loan closed on the 31st December 1996 securing
the results described in the previous paragraphs. However, additional work is needed on institutional
development within the public works as defined in the operational plan, which is appended to this note.



- 41 -
THE OPERATIONAL PLAN
1.    CONTINUING INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The Ministry will sustain existing systems and, where appropivate
continue to expand and to extend the work done in the IDTP after loan 3112-IND has closed in order to
o  maintain existing systems, this will be needed as Government Regulations and Directives
and other external factors change.
o  upgrade existing systems in line with new technology when it can give an improvement in
the operation of systems.
o  add components to systems that were not included in the outputs for the Institutional
Development and Training Project.
o  modify systems, particularly reports and other management information coming from
systems, as managers become more familiar with them and demand more information or
information presented in a different format.
The above can be classified as being the continuing and normal development of systems and
procedures. In addition, the Ministry has the major task of:
o  Helping the Kabupaten/Kotamadya Public Works in the scheme of decentralisation of
Public Works, to:
- Train the technical staff
- Solve financial problems
- Solve equipment needs
Government has chosen 26 Kabupatens (outside Jakarta which has no Kabupatens) for pilot
testing the decentralisation process for all ministries. The selection was based upon their
management ability and the trying out ability to fund the maintenance of installed systems and
procedures. It would be necessary to adapt existing systems to make them suitable for
operating by District Public Works Offices, to install them in the pilot Kabupatens together
with any equipment needed and the selection and training of suitable staff.
The Ministry is aware that other areas of its operation need additional development if it
is to continue to develop its role as adviser and controller of public works and to adapt to thX
new role that it will play under decentralisation of public works development to the level of
Kabupaten IKotamadya and it is prepared to meet the challenge of making the necessary
changes in its organisation, staff, systems and methods.
2. FUTURE PROGRAMME OF WORK
The IDTP system are flexible and adaptable, therefere the Ministry will countinue to
enhance their effectivities and institutionalisation after the closure of loan 3112-IND, in order
to:
* maintain systems, procedures and equipment that were designed and installed under the
Project and keep both operating staff and management up-to-date in the systems.
* prepare systems, equipment and staff for the initial implementation of PP45/92 in the public
works sector in the twenty six selected Level II organisations and carry out full
implementation in those organisations.
* prepare for a wider implementation of systems to the remaining2,7kK8 ,upens and
Kotamadyas.



- 42 -
* continue to enhance the capability of staff involved in public works throughout the country.
* ensure that all of the above is fully documented and is made a legal requirement by
legislation of both the Ministry of Public Works and other Departments, primarily the
Ministry of Home Affairs, as appropriate.
Maintenance and trial installation of systems in the District Public Works Offices will be
financed by the routine budget. Extensions to systems and other improvements will be funded
by                               eduentcad,s  ation and tr,ininf staff and the full extension of
systems to the 26 selected level II organisations will be financed through new loans.
The area of focus that each Bureau will address in their ongoing application of the Institutional
Development and Training Program are
Personnel Svstems (Bureau Personnel)
a). Improve system and procedures, organisation and tasks and functions b).Establish career
development system c). Establish Functional Jobs d). Non-structural job lassification e). Staff
needed to support development (Personnel Planning) f). Improve skill in the Kanwils
g). Develop personnel management system for decentralised operations h). Personnel
administration
Traininz manafement systems (Pusdiklat)
a). Install training management information system   b). Install training costing system
c). Integrate training programmes (incl. Dinas PU Kabupaten) d). Maximizing RTC utilization
Data processing systems (Pusdata)
a). Maintain and upgrade existing systems b). Maintain and upgrade existing hardware and
sofware c). Training
Plannin! and Proaramminf (Bureau of Planninf)
a). Develop systems for Repelita VII b). Development of database for applications of
programme c). Synchronisation of programmed). Development of Performance indicators for
control e). staff development f). Develop the central AHP/DSS g). Maintain AHP/DSS
Kanwil PU h). Budgeting, monitoring and evaluation i). Develop the information systems
necessary for management and control of the development programme.
Foreig aid co-ordination (Bureau of K_LN)
a). Countinued dissemination of IDTP results b). Upgrading the system for monitoring forign
aid in the provinces c). Development of reporting system for foreign aid co-operation
Accounts and finance (Bureau of Bud_et)
a). Maintain existing systems b). Implement cost accounting system in all provinces c).
Implement the Government accounting system in all provinces d). Develop a consolidated
balance sheet for MPW e). Training in financial management in all provinces f). To look for
clarification to the Ministry of Finance concerning the status of swadana proposal for the
laboratories and RTC
InspeCtionand control (Insporate General)
a). Start and countinue annual audit programme b). Prepare programme audit guidelines
from existing manual c). Modify programme audit guidelines to suit A,B,C



- 43 -
Contract and contract control (Bureau of LoEistic)
a). Prepare regulations on procurement and administration of goods and services b).
Implement control of data on procurement of goods and services in the Ministry c). Develop
system for listing and evaluating the performance of national contractors d). Develop an
inventory management information system e). Develop an information system for procurement
of goods and services and Training
Leial services (Bureau of Lefal)
a). Maintain existing systems and disseminate new regulations b). Train non-lawyers from
Dinas PU tk II in regulations covering Public Works c). Train Ministry lawyers in specialist
legal aspect. d). Upgrade the legal information system and connect with National System e).
Upgrade hardware and software
Libraries, archives and public relations (Bureau of General Affair)
a). Countinue with IDTP programmes  b). Seek ways of extending the contribution that
libraries make to the development process c). Continue with archive training and ensure that
archiving continues d). Continue to strengthen public relations functions
Oualitv control of construction (Balitban!)
a). Maintain existing laboratories through continued staff development and maintanance and
calibration of equipment b). Maintain accreditation of laboratories c). Disseminate standard
(SNI) d). Seek legal role for laboratories in testing in order to increase use of facilities.






IBRO 27404
---,THAILAND    "6'                                                                                                                                                          I N D 0 N E S I A       14&
&Vd. A..h                                                                                                                                                                                 PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT    S,
PHIUPPINES                                                   AND TRAINING  PROJECT
A   C.-W      An G,-w
1 3                   MALAYSiA             South  China  Sea                        EIRIJN!El,                                                                                                             S.ff W        D0 1.
3,I-.W C-db.A. .1 Pk.
.d h-w-ml
Q_R" C...l .6 C-
12                                                                   LA                                                                                                                     0   NO"- H..d.-t-
1 7
SINGAPORE
777                          LAfANERA
9                                      0       K' A L                A N
14
1 0                                                                                                                        25
D K.J. JAKAFITA N                   A
JAVYA BARAT                           p
JA                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N JAYA
TENGAH                                                                                                                                                                                                                             w
DAWYOGY KARTA                                                                                                                                                                                                                            z
'W-- CEK"
IAW  Ti UR                                                                                                                                                        klilb-                                                                 5
LAMPUNG                                                                                                                                                                                                                 26              'O I.-
IENGKULU
z
IAMBI
SUMATERAS HAT                                                                                                                                         Banda  Sea
SUMATERASELATAN
RIAU                                                                         Java   Sea                   Uj..qp-
SUM TERAuTARA                                      JAIRrA                                                                 fi
01 ACE.
KALIMANTAN BARAT
KALMANTAN TENGAH
KAL, MANTAN SELA'IAN
KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                                                                                                                                cl,
SULAWESI TENGAH
SULAW:5: UTARA
SULAW S SELATAN
SULAWESI TENGGARA
BALA
ndian  Ocean                                                                                                     TIMOR                      0      Ir     20    300    400    500                im
,USA T E NG G A R A T I m u R                                                                                                                                                                         -LES
MALUKU                                                                                                                                 K.
IRIAN JAYA                                                                                                                                            27                             0  100  200 3W   IM   500  600  700  DO
TIMOR TIMUR
MLOMETERS
125-                                                  M-                        14?'
RSDtIARI 1989









IMAGING
Report No.:        16809
Type:     ICR



