Document of
Th, World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
o/~~~~~7  Ad/  Z -/w/
Report No. 7623.-f
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
JUNE 20, 1989
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a restrided distibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1,700     - US$1.00 (January 1989)
Rp 1 million - US$588
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AIDAB         . - Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
ADB             - Asian Development Bank
BAKN            - The Civil Service Commission
BAPPEDA         - Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS        - National Development Planning Agency
CIDA            - Canadian International Development Agency
DG Bina Marga   - Directorate General of Highways, Ministry of Public Works
DG Cipta Karya  - Directorate General of Human Settlements, Ministry of
Public Works
DG Pengairan    - Directorate General of Water Resources Development,
Ministry of Public Works
DIKLAT          - Directorate Generals' Training Divisions. Ministry of
Public Works
Dinas PUK       - District/Municipal (Level 2) Public Works Department
Dinas PUP       - Provincial (Level 1) Public Works Department
DIP             - Development budget allocation
- Development budget application
- Government of Indonesia
- International Development and Research Council (Canada)
JP           - Integrated Urban Infrastructure Developmnent Program
VIL          - Kantor Wilayah (provincial office of Central Government
Ministries)
KLN             - Bureau for Foreign Collaboration, Ministry of Public T'orks
LAN             - The Institute of Public Administration
MDPI            - Public Works Manpower Development .'roject (Loan 2258-TND)
MENPAN          - State Ministry for Utilization of State Apparatus
MIS             - Management Information System
MOHA            - Ministry of Home Affai.s
MPW             - Ministry of Public Works
OECF            - The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PIU             - Project Implementation Unit
PMU             - Project Management Unit
PP6/88          - GOI Ordinance on Coordination in the Provinces
PP14/87         - GOI Ordinance on Decentralization of Public Works
PUSDATA         - Center for Data Processing, Ministry of Public Works
PUSDIKLAT       - Center for Staff Training, Ministry of Public Works
REPELITA        - Five Year Development Program
SOE             - Statement of Expenditures



- i -                                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS&INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMAR  ...................................... iii-v
I.   THE PUBLIC WORKS SECTOR .......................................                             1
A.   Background and Sector Setting .............................                            1
B.   Public Works Organization .................................                            2
C.   Previous Bank Role in the Sector ..........................                            2
D.   Sector Issues and Problems ................................                            3
E.   Government Strategy .......................................                            5
F.   Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement ...............                            5
II.   THE PROJECT ...................................................                              6
A.   Project Objectives and Scope ................ .............                            6
B.   Staff anid Institutional Development .......................                           6
C. Improvement of Management Systems and Procedures at
Central and Provincial Government Levels ................                           9
D.   Improvement of Quality Control of Construction ............                           13
E.   Environmental Aspects .....................................                           14
III.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT.  IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING .... .                    .......        14
A.   Management ................................................                           14
B.   Implementation ............................................                           15
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation .................................                            17
D.   Coordination with Projects Assisted by Other Agencies .....                           18
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT. DISBURSEMENTS AND
ACCOUNTS ..................................................                          19
A.   Cost Estimates and Financing ..............................                           19
B.   Procurement ...............................................                           23
C.   Disbursements .............................................                          24
D.  Accounts, Audits and Reports ..............................                            26
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................................                            27
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .........................                             27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Indonesia in November 1988 comprising F. Shanley (mission leader), G. Hunting,
K.M. Ikramullah, S. Dice and M. Masuda.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 1  MPW Staff
Table 2  Summary of Project Cost by Component
Table 3  Summary of Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
Table 4  Financing Plan
Table 5  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category
Table 6  Disbursement Forecast
ANNEXES
1.    Organization of the Ministry of Public Works
2.    Organization of KANWIL
3.    Organization of Large Dinas Level 1
4.    Organization of Other Dinas Level 1
5.    GOI Ordinance PP14/87
6.    Summary of Overall Training Program
7.    Allocation of Priority Training
8.    List of Key Procurement Dates
9.    Project Implementation Plan
10.    Key Project Implementation Monitoring Indicators
11.    Estimated Project Costs
Table 1. Summary Accounts by Project Component
Table 2. Project Component Costs by Year
Table 3.  Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4. Allocation of Expenditures by Responsible Unit
12.    Details of Project-Related Incremental Costs
13.    Summary of Consultants' Services
14.    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP
IBRD Map No. 21404



- iii -
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJFMCT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            US$36.1 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate
Project            The objective of the Project is to improve the coordination
Descriptio_n:    of planning and the implementation of public works
activities through staff development, the development of
more efficient management systems and procedures and
assistance to GOI in the transfer of an increasing share of
responsibilities in public works planning and
administration to provincial and local governments. The
Project would complement ongoing Bank assistance to the
public works sector. The Project, which would build on
investments in training programs, systems and procedures
developed, in ongoing and recently completed projects,
would comprise: (a) Staff and institutional development;
improved management and coordination of training;
strengthening of provincial public works offices through
relocating experienced staff to key technical and
administrative posts; and public works staff training with
emphasis on provincial and local government staff;
(b) Improved Management Information Systems (MIS) and other
systems and procedures; refinement of selected subsystems
of the MIS developed under the Public Works Manpower
Development Project, improving the routine operation of the
MIS in the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) bureaus and
introducing the MIS in the provinces. A system would also
be developed for the uniform reporting of planning,
programming and control of implementation of public works
programs. Procedures and systems for procurement,
financial control and audit and library and public
information services would also be improved; and
(c) Improved quality control of construction through the
provision of testing facilities and procedures through
constructing, rehabilitating or extending and equipping
laboratories in 18 provinces (the remaining nine are being
assisted under the Irrigation Subsector Loan) and related
staff training in all provinces.
Benefits           The main benefits expected from the Project would be that:
and Risks:        (a) the training of public works staff would be carried out
in a coordinated, efficient and cost effective manner;



. iv -
qualified and experienced personnel in key positions;
(c) the public works program of national, provincial and
local governments would be more efficiently managed and
operated in a coordinated manner; and (d) testing of the
normal range of construction materials would be available
in each province and carried out professionally. Taken
together, the benefits would facilitate the
decentralization process through the increased capacity of
provincial governments to manage effectively their own
public works programs.  The risks are (a) the uncertainty
of the pace with which GOI will implement its
decentralization policy and the possible lack of cohesion
between the policies of the many state agencies and
ministries involved; (b) that the decrees, regulations and
procedures, which are now in draft or still under
preparation, to deal with the detailed operating procedures
for decentralization, might introduce a degree of
uncertainty pending their finalization ..nd may necessitate
adjus..ments to project activities and timing; and (c) that
some provincial government units will lack capacity to
implement the improved and standardized systems and
procedures. The risks relating to uncertainty would be
minimized by the flexible project design with focus on
functions which would not be dependent on organizational
change and with annual reviews of programs by an
Interministerial Advisory Board to be set up for the
Project. The risk of inadequate capacity at the provincial
level would be minimized by ensuring that key technical and
administrative positions are filled by the relocation of
experienced staff and by introducing the new systems on a
phased basis including pilot testing.



Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
--(US$ million)-----
Staff and Institutional Development
Staff planning and career development                     1.1      1.5       2.6
Strengthening public works in the provinces               2.1      1.2       3.3
Development and implementation of training programs         4.6      4.7       9.3
Subtotal                                              7.8       L.A     15.2
Improvement of Management Systems and Procedures
Management information system                             1.6      2.5       4.1
Coordination of planning and programming                  1.4      2.0       3.4
Foreign aid collaboration                                 0.1      0.4       0.5
Financial management                                      0.5      0.7       1.2
Control and audit                                         0.4      0.7       1.1
Procurement                                               0.5      0.3       0.8
Legal function                                            0.3      0.3       0.6
Library, archives and public information                  0.8      0.9       1.7
Subtotal                                              5         7       13.4
Imnrovement of Quality Control of Construction              7.4      6.0      13.4
Project Implementation                                      1.2      1.5       2.7
Base Cost (January 1989)                             22.0      22.7     44.7
Physical contingencies                                      1.0      1.1       2.1
Price contingencies                                         4.3      2.9       7.2
Total Costs LA                                       27.3      26.7     54.0
Financing Pian:
Local   Foregn   Total
--- (US$ million)-----
Government of Indonesia                              17.9       0.0     17.9
Bank                                                  9.4      26.7     36.1
Total                                                27.3      26.7     54.0
Estima,ted Disbursements:
Bank FY    1990      1991     1992      19       1991*    1995      12L9
Annual          2.0      4.0       6.6      8.0       8.0      6.8      0.7
Cumulative      2.0      6.0     12.6      20.6     28.6      35.4     36.1
Late of Return:       Not applicable
Map:                  IBRD No. 21404
/a Inclusive of taxes and duties estimated at US$2.7 million equivalent.



INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
I. THE PUBLIC WORKS SECTOR
A. Background and Sector Setting
1.1      Public works directly affect the quality of life of Indonesia's 176
million people and are a major factor in the development of the country. The
country, an archipelago stretching 5,000 km has three thousand inhabited
islands with 60% of the population living on the two islands of Java and Bali
which together account for 7% of its land mass.
Sector Setting
1.2      Public works account for about 70% of the total annual investment in
construction. The expenditure of the central government Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) in 1987/88 was Rp 2.2 trillion (US$1.3 billion equivalent) repre-
senting about 60% of total public works expenditure. The remaining 40% was
divided between the public works departments of the twenty seven provinces
which form level 1 (provincial) governments and the 245 kabupaten (districts)
and 49 kotamadya (major cities) which form level 2 (local) governments. The
lower levels of government at 3,500 subdistricts and 58,000 villages have no
*        public works departments.  The regional governments are administratively res-
ponsible to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) with MPW responsible for tech-
nical guidance and monitoring in regional public works affairs.
1.3      The central MPW employs a staff of over 87,000 about half of which
work on centrally funded projects and the other half augment the staff of
regional public works departments.  Table 1 shows a breakdown of MPW staff.
Table 1:  MPW STAFF  a
Permanent     Full time temporary
Location                            staff           project staff        Total
MPW central office                    16,711             10,975           27,686
MPW provincial offices (KANWIL) Jb   13,148               2,024           15,172
Seconded to regional
government offices                  27,957             16,535           44,492
Total                            57.816             29.534           87.350
Source: Bureau of Personnel, MNPW.
/a   Excludes approximately 29,600 public works staff paid by Level 1
(provincial) governments. The number of public works staff paid by Level
II (local) governments is not known.
/b Each central government ministry is represented in the provinces by a
KANWIL. In the context of this report KANWIL refers to the MPW
provincial office.



-2-
B. Public Works Organization
1.4      MPW activities are the responsibility of three separate directorates
general, each reporting directly to the Minister: (a) Bina Marga (highways);
(b) Pengairan (water resources); and (c) Cipta Karya (human settlements).
Eight bureaus, reporting to the Secretary General are responsible for
(i) overall pianning and programming; (ii) personnel; (iii) finance;
(iv) logistics; (v) legal affairs; (vi) construction industry development;
(vii) foreign collaboration; and (viii) general affairs. Four centers are
responsible for providing services in (i) data processing; (ii) training of
staff; (iii) training for the construction industry; and (iv) heavy equipment
development. In addition, an Inspectorate General reports directly to the
Minister. A research and development agency, reporting directly to the
Minister, is responsible for applied public works research and development. A
diagram of the MPW organization is at Annex 1.
1.5      The KANWIL were established only in 1984, representing MPW in each of
the 27 provinces and are weakly staffed particularly in engineering and
programming and planning posts. Typically each has four departments dealing
with (a) administration; (b) technical affairs, programming and planning;
(c) material testing; and (d) heavy equipment. Many KANWIL share accom-
modation ir offices belonging to provincial public works departments. A
diagram of the KANWIL organization is at Annex 2.
1.6      The public works departments of provincial (level 1) governments,
(Dinas PUP), comprise four departments dealing with (a) administration;
(b) highways; (z) water resources; and (d) human settlements, with a branch
office in each Kabupaten or Kotamadya. In the seven largest provinces, three
separate brat.ch offices, one for highways, one for water resources and one for
human settlements are located in each Kabupaten or Kotamadya. Each of the
separate branch offices has its own administrative division. In these seven
provinces, there are also 12 to 18 regional coordinating offices, each
specializing in either highways, water resources or human settlements. In the
smaller provinces, the branch offices of the Dinas PUP have separate divisions
to deal with the water resources, highways and human settlements. Diagrams of
the two types of Dinas PUP organization are at Annex 3 (large provinces) and
Annex 4 (small provinces). The public works departments of the Kabupaten and
Kotamadya (level 2) governments, (Dinas PUK) xary considerably in organization
and capacity with some areas having no public works department while some
large cities have departments which are stronger than many provincial public
works departments.
1.7      Investment in new public works and, to an increasing extent main-
tenance, is arranged mainly through projects funded under the Development
Budget (DIP).  MPW and its KANWIL are responsible for implementation of
centrally funded projects and Dinas PUP for provincially funded projects.
Some Kabupaten and Kotamadya projects are managed by Dinas PUP because of the
inadequacy of public works staff at the district or municipal level.
C. Previous Bank Role in the Sector
1.8      The Bank has provided extensive support to the pubiic works sector
through a total of 21 loans for irrigation, 11 for highways and 12 for urban.
Of these 44 loans 23 have been completed. Ongoing Bank-assisted projects,



3
particularly the Urban Sector Loan (Ln. 2816-IND), the Irrigatior Subsector
Loan (Ln. 2880-IND) and the Second Rural Roads Project (Lr.. 2881-IND) are now
assisting in strengthening the local level public works departments including
their participation in planning and implementation of projects.
1.9      In 1983 MPW was the first ministry to be the subject of a sector
specific Bank loan to assist central government staff development and training
- Public Works Manpower Development Project (MDPI - Ln. 2258-IND). The MDPI,
completed in December 1988, focused on assisting the Bureaus and Cetnters, out-
side the Directorates General, in the Ministry. Training and technical
assistance for the Directorates General continued to be funded mainly through
subsector development projects. MDPI generally succeeded in meeting its
objectives of strengthening the management of staff training, upgrading
training and improving the control procedures in the Secretariat General.
Progress was made in the coordination of regular training under GOI budgets
but it was not possible to coordinate effectively the large variety of
training in the projects funded by different sources because of the absence of
cooperation between the directorates of the virtually autonomous Directorates
General and the MPW Center for Staff Training. The project also identified
the need for systems and organizational development to bring about coordiu.ated
procedures for common functions in the Directorates General and Secretariat
General and the MPW provincial offices (KANWIL), which had been established
after appraisal of MDPI. Accordingly, the project was restructured, during
implementation, to cope with these issaec. A start was made on developing a
management information system (MIS), standard ICB contract documents,
financial planning, performance audits. and legal data base. The results of
the MIS development were mixed largela because of inadequate monitoring of
consultants and lack of understanding of the roles of the MPW data processing
center and end users.  The remaining development work was successful except
for the financial planning which has now been overtaken by new accountancy
procedures.
1.10     Project completion reports (PCRs) and project performance audit
reports (PPARs) have been prepared for nineteen public wo,ks projects. Major
themes in the PPARs, for projects 1/ completed after 19u0, are the need for
(a) better quality programming, planning and budgeting; (b) appropriate
sectoral and institutional policies; (c) improved procurement procedures
because of protracted delays in implementation; and (d) improved operation and
maintenance services. The proposed project would apply these lessons in
relevant components.
D. Sector Issues and Problems
1.11     In addition to the broader policy issues associated with the GOI
decision to decentralize gradually the administration and financing of many
public works functions, there are institutional issues to be addressed. In
the past, staffing and institutional weaknesses have seriously hampered public
works and delayed project implementation. The institutional issues and
problems facing the public works sector may be summarized as (a) weaknesses in
staff and career development systems, particularly at provincial levels;
I/ The projects, covering irrigation, highways and urban development, deal
with loans 1236, 1268, 1049, 1336, 1100, 1434, 1435, 1579, 1691 and
1645-IND.



- 4 -
(b) inadequacy of coordination of training; (c) uncoordinated and inadequate
management system and procedures; and (d) inadequate quality control of
construction.
(a)  Weakness in Staffing and Personnel and Career Development Systems.
The limited number of experienced and well-trained staff,
particularly at provincial level, and the weakness in personnel and
career development systems constrain the efficient implementation uf
public works programs and the implementation of proposals to
decentralize responsibilities to the provincial and local
governments. The computesr-based personnel information system
developed for the Bureau of Personnel under MDPI needs to be
implemented to cover all MPW staff, and, inter alia, to facilitate
career development of those at the regional levels. For the majority
of staff, there is no clear process for career development,
particularly for the technical and professional staff who do not
attain echelon status in the administrative structure. Although the
Government is attempting to develop functional structures to provide
career programs with salary enhancement for technical staff, the MPW
has introduced this for only a very small aumber of staff, and there
is not yet a functional structure for planners, engineers, architects
or surveyors.
(b)  Lack of Coordination of Training.  The total annual training expendi-
ture of MPW, financed from various sources, is about US$8 million.
Although coordination of training by the Center for Staff Training
(PUSDIKLAT) and the subsector training centers (DIKLIAT) has improved,
there is a considerable volume of project and other financed training
which is not yet coordinated within central MM and between the
center and provinces. The results include inefficient utilization of
the Ministry's training facilities and wide variation, in a range
exceeding 4:1, in the unit cost of local training. Improved
coordination and management would result in increased efficiency,
wider coverage and a more consistent pattern in the training program.
(c) Weakness of Management. Efficiency of management is low particularly
in the programming, planning and the control of implementation of
civil works. There is inadequate cooperation and coordination
between the directorates in each of the three directorates general at
central level aiid between the directorates general and bureaus.
Problems are exacerbated by the multiplicity of computer hardware and
software systems, duplication in the collection and processing of
data and inadequate standardization of procedures, in planning and
programming, financial management and procurement, and information
flow in similar functional areas, particularly at KANWIL and Dinas
PUP levels. There is a general weakness throughout public works in
monitoring and follow up of contracts for services, civil works and
goods.
(d) Lack of Institutional Capacitv. Quality assurance and quality
control of construction is severely hampered by the lack of testing
facilities in the provinces for the normal range of construction
materials. In the KANWIL laboratories, which provide a very limited



range of tests, procedures are unsatisfactory and generally the staff
is not adequately trained. There is a serious lack of technical
publications, journals and reference materials at KANWIL and Dinas
levels and inadequate liaison with the Public Affairs Bureau at MPW.
E.  Government Strategy
1.12     As a means to improve efficiency in the public works sector, a major
objective of the Government is to transfer broad responsibilities for plan-
ning, programming, budgeting, design and implementation of projects, including
maintenance, from central to provincial and local governments with central
government taking the responsibility for national projects and for technical
guidance of public works departments at provincial and local levels. The
framework for decentralization was laid down in Law 5/74. The government
policies for decentralization are laid down in government ordinance P°14/87
published in September 1987 and in government ordinance PP6/88 published in
June 1988. PP14/87, (Annex 5), which applies only to the public works sector,
specifies a broad range of public works responsibilities, listed in Chapter 2
of Annex 5, which are to be transferred from central to provincial and local
governments. It also deals with the transfer of staff, property and other
assets. PP6/88 applies to all sectors; inter alia, it confirms the respon-
sibility of the provincial governor for coordinating all programs within the
province and requires that -*porting for common functions be on common formats
to ensure identical data at central and provincial levels.
1.13     A dilemma facing GOI is the pace of decentralization.  The process
must be a gradual one over a period to be decided by the government. GOI has
yet to decide a strategy on whether to invest, over a relatively short term,
in the broad administrative changes required for long-term efficiency gains or
whether to invest over a relatively long term while hoping that, over an
extended transition period, minor adjustments would ameliorate some of the
more serious inefficiencies in the present system.
F. Bank Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
1.14     Regardless of uncertainties on de._ails of decentralization, the Bank
strategy is tn assist GOI put in place as soon as possible a program to faci-
litate implementation of decentralization. Bank dialogue with GOI in the
public works sector has been important in Government policy for the decentral-
ization of public works. Ongoing Bank assisted projects supporting the Integ-
rated Urban Infrastructure Development Programs (IUIDP) are in the forefront
of the implementation of decentralization. The proposed project would be a
further step towards the effective decentralization of public works and would
complement the ongoing projects by assisting central and provincial govern-
ments in staff development and in improving the capabilities of provincial
government in public works management and procedures and in the coordination
of their project planning and programming. The success of the implementation
of the GOI's decentralization plans is critical for the preservation of the
current stock of public infrastructure assets through adequate maintenance and
for the effectiveness of future development plans in Indonesia.



- 6 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Scope
2.1      The objective of the Project is to improve the coordination of plan-
ning and the implementation of public works activities, by staff development
and improved management information and other systems and assisting GOI in the
implementation of policies for deconcentration and decentralization of
responsibilities for public works to provincial and local government levels.
The Project would assist MPW and provincial levels I public works departments
but training would also be made available to level TI staff. The Project
would build directly on investment for the development of training programs,
system and procedures developed under MDPI and would also reinforce a number
of objectives supported under other Bank assisted projects as well as
establishing a better basis for future coordination of externally financed
public works projects.
2.2      The Project would comprise components in the three following areas of
public works:
(a) Staff and Institutional Development;
(b) Improvement of Management Systems and Procedures; and
(c) Improvement of Quality Control of Construction, through upgrading of
provincial testing facilities and procedures.
B. Staff and institutional Developrteift (US$15.2 million excluding
contingencies)
2.3      The staff and institutional development program would strengthen the
KANWIL and provincial Dinas by:
(a) implementing improved systems for staff planning, personnel informa-
tion, career development, job analysis and performance appraisal;
(b) strengthening staff of the KANWIL and Dinas to facilitate the
transfer of responsibilities; and
(c) upgrading staff training and improving its efficiency and management,
including the coordination of the total program of public works
training.
2.4      Staff Planning. Personnel and Career Develogment Systems.  Tthe staff
planning and personnel documentation 2nd information systems already intro-
duced at the central level under MDPI, would be fully implemented in all
provinces in coordination with the improvement of personnel management systems
in the Directorates General under sector projects. The systems would include
identification of staff and training needs, evaluation of staff assignments in
relation to work programs and improvement in the efficiency of utilization of
staff. An improved career development system for MPW and KANWIL staff and, in
association with MOHA, for regional public works staff, would be implemented,
incorporating systematic performance appraisal.



2.5      To assist career development and improve staff motivation, functional
classification systems would be designed and established, in conjunction with
MOHA, the Civil Service Commission (BAKN) and the State Ministry for Util-
ization of State Apparatus (MENPAN), for key technical and professional
occupations including engineers, architects and surveyors. Criteria for per-
formance appraisal would be identified and the systems put in place before the
end of Repelita V (1994), job analysis and performance criteria, developed
under MNPI, would be reviewed and completed for the other main occupations.
2.6      The MPW Bureau of Personnel, in association with MOHA for regional
staff, would be responsible for implementation of the subcomponent with the
assistance of 78 staff-months of international and 144 staff-months of
domestic consultant services to design and implement the personnel
information, career development, performance appraisal and functional
classification and job analysis systems. The project would also provide
52 staff-months of overseas study visits and short course training and about
620 staff-months of local training for counterpart Bureau, KANWIL, Dinas PUP
and project staff. The study visits overseas would also include MENPAN and
BARN staff. Incremental costs of specialist advisory committees and planning,
evaluation and appraisal activities would also be financed by the project.
2 7      Strengthening of KANWIL and Dinas.  The Project would facilitate the
transfer of responsibilities for public works to provincial and local govern-
ments by strengthening the staff of KANWIL and Dinas PUP. The role of the
.ZNWIL will be to provide technical guidance to the Dinas PUP, to monitor
quality of construction and to assist in the coordination of programming,
planning and implementation of public works within each province. The Dinas
PUP will take increasing responsibility for the planning, implementation and
maintenance of provincial public works. Annual programs would be prepared and
implemented for the recruitment of new staff and for the relocation of staff
from central to provincial offices. Over the five years of the project, about
650 well-qualified and experienced technical and administrative staff would be
relocated to the KlANWIL and Dinas PUP. Positions would only be filled by
relocated staff where training of local staff would not be adequate to raise
their expertise to the requisite level. The key technical and administrative
posts have been identified and a plan and timetable for filling the posts was
reviewed at negotiations. It was agreed that qualified and experienced
persons would be appointed to the key technical and administrative staff
positions in the KANWIL and the Dinas PUP by October 31, 1992.
2.8      GOI recognizes the need for expanded office accommodation in the
regions to alleviate present overcrowding and to accommodate additional staff
following decentralization. The Project would finance a survey of the needs
for office accommodation in each province and the Government would fund the
construction of identified office needs from its own budget.
2.9      The programs of staff strengthening would proceed in step with the
introduction of the new systems and procedures developed under other project
components and match changes in organization and assignment of responsibili-
ties as the Government implements its policies for decentralization. The
Project Management Unit (PMU) (para. 3.3) would be responsible for the overall
planning and coordination of the activities, with the Bureau of Personnel.
responsible for staffing.



-8-
2.10     The Project would provide 40 staff-months of international and
120 staff-months of domestic consultant services to assist with planning,
coordinating and implementing the pilot projects and monitoring of the phased
introduction of the new systems and procedures in the KANWIL and Dinas PUP.
The Project would also finance the costs of relocation of staff. Incremental
costs of field studies and the conduct and monitoring of pilot projects would
also be covered. The Project would ilso provide 20 staff-months of
international and 60 staff-months t_ 'omestic consultant services for
assistance in the study and preparation of a future local government
institutional and manpower development project.
2.11     Development and Imnlementation of Training Programs.  The Project
would complete the process of upgrading the quality of training and improving
its management by PUSDIKLAT and the specialist DIKLAT initiated under MDPI.
This would include: implementing a fully integrated and coordinated training
program for centLal MPW, KANWIL ard Dinas staff; completing the establishment
of the training information system; maximizing the utilization of training
resources; implementing a comprehersive system of evaluation of training
including analysis of costs and of training outcomes; achieving a significant
reduction in the unit cost of training; establishing an adequate cadre of
full-time training staff and completing the upgrading of training facilities.
2.12     The Project would also support the design and implementation of a
program of priority training, including: corporate management training for
current and potential Echelon I and II staff; technical and management train-
ing for key KANWIL and Dinas staff; training for trainers and for managers of
training, including management of mobile and distance training for Dinas PUP
and PUK, KANWIL and project staff. Although training programs would be
designed for public works staff, relevant programs would be open, on a full
cost recovery basis, to personnel of the private sector of the construction
industry.  A breakdown of the overall training program is at Annex 6 and the
allocation of responsibilities for the priority training is at Annex 7.
2.13     The implementation of a fully coordinated public works training pro-
gram would be a key objective. The operation by PUSDIKLAT of a system,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the management and coordination of the total
public works staff training program would be a condition of disbursement for
priority training shown in Annex 7 in FY1992/93 and thereafter. This system
would include the monitoring and review by PUSDIKIAT of the complete training
program, from all sources of finance, as a basis for the allocation of the
annual training budgets.
2.14     The Project would provide 228 staff-months of international and
180 staff-months of domestic consultant services to assist PUSDIKLAT and the
DIKLAT with the design and implementatio.a of the improved management,
evaluation, cost analysis and training information systems and the development
and implementation of the priority staff training program totalling 6,600
staff months. The Project would also finance 110 staff-months of overseas
training and the incremental costs of monitoring, evaluation and curriculum
and materials development. Minor building works would be completed at the
Jakarta Training Center and supplementary training equipment would also be
provided.



- 9 -
C. Improvement of Management Systems and Procedures at Central and Provincial
Government Levels (US$13.4 million excluding contingercies)
2.15     Improved management systems and procedures, developed under MDPI,
would be adapted, expanded and implemented to improve t'.ie efficiency of public
works programs and to facilitate efficient decentralization of responsibi-
lities for public works from central to provincial and local governments
including:
(a) the use of a standardized core management information system in place
of the multiple incompatible systems now operated by MPW;
(b) improved coordination of planning and programming of public works and
the introduction of uniform reporting for common activities;
(c) improved collaboration in foreign aid;
(d) improved financial planning and management and budgetary controls;
(e) improved control and performance audits;
(f) improved efficiency of procurement;
(g) improved legal functions; and
(h)   ?grading the library and archive system and improving public
information and publication activities.
2.16     Information Systems.  The management information system (MIS) devel-
oped under MDPI covered the functions of personnel, planning, logistics, sta-
tistics, legal data and financial information. The MIS would be reviewed,
refined and revised where relevant to form a standard core management inform-
ation system at provincial and central ministry levels in place of the exist-
ing multiple systems now in use. The legal data and inventory functions would
be developed as stand-alone systems. The personnel, planning and financial
functions would be developed under their relevant components (paras. 2.19 and
2.25) and then integrated with the MIS. A modern data-base management system
would be installed to effect compatibility across the Ministry, including the
systems developed by the Directorates General, and to use efficiently the
variety of computers already in place. Future hardware and software procure-
ment would be standardized. The Technical Committee (para. 3.2) would be
assisted by an informatics policy working group to be set up, inter alia, to
study the proposal for the implementation, operation and maintenance of the
core MIS with a membership comprising the heads of PUSDATA and the INTAL of
each Directorate General. Development and implementation would be the
responsibility of PUSDATA, except for the development of the personnel,
planning and financial data functions for which PUSDATA will provide
supervision on informatic aspects. It was agreed that the informatics policy
working group would be established by December 31, 1989 and maintained for the
period of the project. It was further agreed that the core management
information system for the MPW and for the KANWIL and Dinas PUP would be
implemented by October 31, 1992 in the provinces of North Sumatera, South
Sumatra, West Java, Central Java, East Java, in DKI Jakarta, in the Special
P  rin-_  Af Yna- l' rt-  , nA in th- nrnvinyiP  of Rnl i Qnd Soi'th Sulawesi.



- 10 -
2.17     PUTSDATA staff, trained under MDPI, would take full responsibility,
with minimal consultant assistance, for the implementation, and initial
routine operation of the MIS and for related training in nine selected
provinces. It is intended that PUSDATA take responsibility without further
project assistance for MIS implementation, initial routine operation and
related training, on a gradual basis, in the remaining 18 provinces.
2.18     The Project would provide 57 staff-months of international and
21 staff-months of domestic consultant services to assist with the develorment
and implementation work and would provide 42 staff-months of overseas and
775 staff-months of local training. The Project would also provide for hard-
ware and software acquisition including a new mainframe for PUSDATA.
2.19     Coordination of Planning and Programming.  The Project would assist
in the development of uniform progLiamming and budgeting documentation to serve
as the basis for coordination of planning and implementation within MPW and
with regional governments through the KANWIL. Government Ordinance PP6/1988
(para. 1.12) places the provincial governors in overall charge of development
coordination. Thus, the Provincial Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA) will
be the focal point for coordination of programming, direct investment by the
province, and proposed expenditures in the province by central ministerial
agencies. This component would address the necessary development of
procedures and formats to facilitate such coordination. In concept, the
Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program (IUIDP) process, the
highway sector program and irrigation systems program should produce the
required information upon which coordination activities could be undertaken.
However, at present the lack of standardization and poorly understood program
linkages severely corstrain the degree to which the coordination can be
effected. The proposed system would incorporate the results of on-going work
to establish a national system of infrastructures classification and
consequent assignment of responsibilities among levels of the public works
system in line with PP14/87 and with the joint MPW-MOHA-BAPPENAS effort to
unify national and local program budget categories for public works. A manual
will be produced to assist MPW and the provincial agencies to identify appro-
priately and deal with the coordination linkages within the public works
program, including such basic factors as sequencing/scheduling relationships,
cost sharing, maintenance implications of current and proposed works, and
technical planning/programming coordination. The manual would also deal with
techniques for identification of potential impacts and opportunities arising
from the public works program, to include environmer.tal considerations,
commercial development, tourism program enhancement and other special/
strategic opportunities to facilitate MPW dialogue with other GOI departments
and the private sector.
2.20     In addition, the Project woyild assist the Bureau of Planning in ful-
filling its responsibilities for the identification of potential opportunities
for public and private sector development arising from public works programs
and in the provision of an adequate base for coordinating public works activ-
ities with B&PPENAS and other GOI agencies such as the Ministries of Communi-
cations, Tourism, Housing and Environment.



- 11 -
2.21     A unit would be established in the Bureau of Planning, comprising
Bureau staff selected on the basis of their skills and experience, augmented
by Cipta Karya staff with IUIDP experience and a subject specialist in
regional government budgeting, for component developmert and implementation,
assisted by consultants.  The component would be implemented during the
project in at least the nine provinces of North and South Sumatra, DKI
Jakarta, West, Central and East Java, Yogyakarta, Bali and South Sulawesi.
The Bureau of Planning, in association with provincial authorities, would
implement  the systems in the remaining provinces without further project
assistance except training which would be provided for relevant staff of all
KANWIL and Dinas PUP.
2.22     To improve the coordination of planning and programming of public
works, the Project would provide 131 staff-months of international and
210 staff-months of domestic consultant services to assist the development and
implementation. It would provide 1,100 staff-months of local training.
2.23     Foreign Aid Collaboration.  The organization, structure and manage-
ment procedures of the Bureau for Foreign Collaboration (KLN) would be
improved and staff strengthened. Coordination with DGs, Bureaus and KANWIL
would be improved. The information systems for planning, programming,
monitoring and financing of projects would provide the bnsis for efficient
monicoring of the status of ongoing programs assisted by foreign loans or
grants and for the identification of the needs for foreign financing of
potential new projects. An internationally recognized classification system
would be introduced to facilitate information retrieval on projects assisted
by foreign aid and to identify areas of overlap and duplication.
2.24     The Project would provide 31 staff-months of international consultant
services and 105 staff-months of local training to assist KLN.
2.25     Financial Management.  With the objective of improving all aspects of
financial management in the Bureau of Finance, three developments would be
undertaken. An integrated financial information and monitoring system would
be designed in coordination with the component for the Bureau of Planning
(para. 2.19), and implemented to ensure timely and pertinent reports. The
existing financial planning and budgetary control system would be
strengthened, taking into account the need to Integrate budgetary control at
the Bureau of Finance with that at the executing agencies. A project
accounting subsystem would be developed and implemented on a pilot basis in
selected projects. The project accounting system would be compatible with
standards and procedures being developed under the ongoing Bank-assisted
Accountancy Development Project (Ln. 2940-IND). The system would be
implemented in all 27 KANWIL.
2.26     The Project would provide 42 staff-months of international and
120 staff-months of domestic consultant services to improve financial
management. It would also provide 20 staff-months of overseas and 179 staff-
months of local training.



- 12 -
2.27     Control and Audit.  The control and performance audit systems and
manuals, prepared under MDPI, would be refined and implemented, with related
staff training, as a routine procedure of the Inspectorate General. The
systems would determine: whether the agencies are managing resources
efficiently and economically and in accordance with agreed practices; whether
the agencies comply with relevant regulations and deerees; and whether
projects were achieving results in accordance with objectives. A construction
supervision manual would also be prepared through collaboration between the
Inspectorate and Directorates General and tested and implemented with related
staff training. The manual would be used as a checklist for supervisors of
construction works and for auditing their performance by the Inspector
General. Performance audit and control manuals would also be developed in
association with the Directorates General and the Bureau of Logistics to cover
consultancy services for design and studies: this work would be based on pilot
projects which would be developed by the Directorate General of Water
Resources under an ongoing Bank-assisted project. In addition, a program
audit system and manuals, geared to the audit of sector programs, would be
developed and introduced on a pilot basis. Implementation of the component
would be confined to central MPW but training in the requirements for
performance auditing would also be provided for KANWIL staff.
2.28     The Project would provide 52 staff-months of international and
60 staff-months of domestic consultant services and 350 staff-months of local
training to assist the Inspectorate General in the improvement of control and
audit procedures.
2.29     Imvroved Efficiency of Procurement.  Draft staadard contract condi-
tions for ICB procurement, developed under MDPI, for civil works and
consultants would be revised after Bank review, and implemented for MPW
contracts and public works contracts at Dinas level 1. Standard contract
conditions would be developed for goods for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) and standard Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) documents would be
developed for civil works, consultants and goods and implemented at central
and provincial levels. Standard procedures for procurement would be
introduced and related manuals prepared for the various users. In developing
the documentation and procedures, past and ongoing experience with public
procurement procedures in Indonesia would be taken into account. A computer
based monitoring system has been introduced with Bank assistance, inter alia,
in MPW on a pilot basis; the system will be refined after testing and
implemented centrally, and in KANWIL and Dinas PUP. Training in procurement
would be given at central and provincial levels. The improvements would be
introduced in MPW, all KANqWIL and, in association with MOHA, Dinas PUP during
the project period.
2.30     To assist in the development and implementation of the component the
Project would provide 12 staff-months of international and 36 staff-months of
domestic consultant services and 700 staff-months of local training.
2.31     Legal Functions.  The MPW legal functions would be reviewed in the
context of decentralization. Channels for legal advice would be established
throughcut MPW central offices and KANWIL. Programs would be undertaken to
increase the consciousness of MPW staff of legal aspects of their work. Staff



- 13 -
of the Bureau of Legal Affairs would be trained on legal aspects of inter-
national procurement and contracts. the legal data base, comprising a
catalogue of laws, ordinances, decrees and regulations applicable to public
works, produced under MDPI, would be developed by PUSDATA as a stand-alone
system for use by the Bureau of Legal Affairs and legal officers of Dinas
PUPs. While the project would improve the dissemination of legal information
and training, it would not cover the review, or drafting of laws, regulations
or decrees. Apart from the legal data base system which would be available to
Dinas PUPs, implementation is confined to the MPW central Bureau of Legal
Affairs, but relevant information and guidance materials would be disseminated
to the KANWIL and Dinas PUP.
2.32     In order to upgrade the effectiveness of the Bureau of Legal Affairs
and improve staff awareness the Project would provide 12 staff-months of
international and 60 staff-months of domestic consultant services and
30 staff-months of overseas and 50 staff-months of local training.
2.33     Libraries. Archives and Public Information.  A network would be
formed to link the central and three sectoral libraries at MPW Jakarta and the
three research institutes at Bandung. Library holdings would be upgraded, a
computerized union catalog established and facilities provided for the central
and research institute libraries to access international on-line bibliographic
and full-text data bases. A proposal for parallel financing of information
centers in each KANWIL and related training is currently under study by IDRC
of Canada.
2.34     The main archive, at Citereup, South Jakarta would be equipped and
staffed to enable it to be developed as the central MPW archive. Existing
archival records would be processed and selections made of the documents to be
placed in the central archive.
2.35     The Bureau of Public Affairs would be assisted to improve its
administration and its publications and dissemination of relevant information
and reports to the public, the construction industry and to universities and
polytechnics.
2.36     To improve the quality of libraries and archives and to make the
public information services more effective the Project would provide 36 staff-
months of international consultant services, 46 staff-months of overseas and
442 staff-months of local training. The Project would also provide equipment
and materials for the libraries, archives and the Bureau of Public Affairs.
D. Improvement of Ouality Control of Construction (US$13.4 million
excluding contingencies)
2.37     KANWIL laboratories in 18 provinces would be upgraded to enable them
to carry out a full range of testing of construction materials. Laboratories
for the remaining nine provinces2/ would be upgraded under the ongoing
Irrigation Subsector Project (Ln. 2880-IND). Building plans, specifications
and schedules of equipment, staffing schedules, schedules of tests to be
carried out by the laboratories and staff training proposals were reviewed
2/   The 9 provinces are West Sumatra, South Sumatra, Lampung, We~st Java,
Central Java, Yogyakarta, East Java, South Sulawesi and West Nusa
Tengara.



- 14 -
during appraisal and found to be generaliy satisfactory and are now undergoing
further technical review by the Singapore Institute of Industrial Research and
Standards. The laboratories would provide testing for any public or private
client on a fee basis. An accreditation system would be developed to ensure
that each laboratory is maintained at set standards.
2.38     The Project would provide 70 staff-months of domestic consultant
services for civil works supervision and 1,050 staff-months of local training,
in laboratory techniques, which includes staff of all 27 laboratories. The
project would finance civil works and provide for equipment and technical
libraries of codes of practice and standards.
E. Environmental Asgects
2.39     The relatively minor civil works component would not have any adverse
environmental effect. The component dealing with coordination and uniform
reporting procedures would make provision for the inclusion of environmental
impact assessments in the project cycle. The project would provide for trans-
portation costs to and from Brussels for provincial public works staff to
attend physical planning courses, which would include training in environ-
mental issues, financed by the Belgian government.
III. PROJECT MANAGEMENT. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
A. Management
3.1      The Secretary General of MPW, as Project Director responsible to the
Minister, assisted by a strong Project Management Unit (PMU), would be respon-
sible for the project. It was agreed that an Interministerial Advisory Board
would be established, not later than November 30, 1989, and maintained for the
period of the project. The Board would include representatives from the
Ministries of Finance and Home Affairs, National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS), State Ministry of Utilization of State Apparatus (MENPAN),
Institute of Public Administration (LAN) and the Civil Service Commission
(BAKN) as well as from the three Directorates General and the Director of the
Research and Development Agency (BALITBANG) of MPW. The terms of reference
for the Board were agreed at negotiations. These include advising the Project
Director on policy matters and coordination between the agencies on actions
and decisions relevant to the project. It was agreed that the Advisory Board
would be established not later than November 30, 1989 and maintained for the
period of the Project.
3.2      To facilitate the objective of improving institutional effic'iency and
coordination within directorates and bureaus at the center and between center
and provinces, a Technical Committee, chaired by a non PMU member, who will be
nominated by the Project Director, would be established. The Committee would
comprise the Project Manager, the relevant Bureau and Center heads of the
Secretariat General of MPW, the Secretaries of the three Directorates General,
the Inspectorate General, BALITBANG and two provincial representatives



' 15 -
selected from the heads of KANWIL and Dinas PUP. The terms of reference which
were agreed during negotiations require the committee to oversee the
implementation of the policy of the Minister of Public Works relating to the
project, to evaluate and moiiitor the quality and progress of project
development and implementation, and to review the PMU progress reports. It
was agreed that the Technical Commictee would be established not later than
November 30, 1989 and maintained for the period of the project
3.3      The PMU would be responsible for (a) the overall planning, program-
ming, coordination and budgetary control of the Project; (b) the appointment
of consultants and contractors for relevant project components; (c) directing,
monitoring and evaluating the work of the project implementation units;
(d) carrying out project duties as instructed by the Project Director; and
(e) preparing status and progress reports for the Project Director, the
Advisory Board anld Technical Committee and the Bank.
3.4      The PMU would have a full-time project manager and staff; it would
also be provided with its own budget, offices, and consultants. The PMU
supporting staff would include three full-time middle-management staff,
experienced in project work, responsible for financial, technical and
administrative matters, assisted by consultants. The consultant input, over
the five-year period of the project, is estimated at 108 staff-months
international consultants (two-person team for the first four years and one
person for the fifth year), together with 180 staff-months of domestic
consultants (two-person team for five years augmented by 60 staff-months for
special tasks).   The project would also finance directly related incremental
costs incurred in field trips, meetings, cor.sumables and honoraria.
3.5      The Minister of Public Works has appointed an experienced high level
MPW staff member as the Project Manager. Suitable accommodation has been made
available for the PHU and a special DIP for the PMU has been allocated for the
1989/90 financial year. It was agreed that the PMU would be fully operational
with key staff in place not later than November 30, 1989.
B. Implementation
3.6      Status of Proiect Preparation.  Designs, specifications, equipment
lists and draft bidding documents have been prepared for KANWIL laboratories
and have been reviewed.  All land required for the laboratories has been
acquired. Outline terws of reference for all technical assistance components
have been prepared, reviewed and found satisfactory.  Detailed terms of
reference and draft proposal documents for consultants' services for the
following components reviewed and agreed during negotiations: (i) coordination
of planning and programming; (ii) financial management; (iii) MIS; and (iv)
foreign aid collaboration. It was agreed that consultants for the foregoing
services would be appointed not later than February 28, 1990. The project is
ready for implementation, as shown in the schedule of key procurement dates at
Annex 8.



- 16 -
3.7      Relevant Bureaus and Centers at headquarters and the KANWIL, acting
as Project Implementation Units (PIUs), would be responsible for the
management and implementation of components or subcomponents, including
financial and budgetary control for cbmponcnt/subcomponent expenditures and,
where delegated by the Project Manager, the appointment of consultants and
contractors. The Bureaus are adequately staffed and experienced. However,
because of the inexperience of KANWIL in projects of this nature, an allowance
has been made for consultants to assist the KANWIL in their project duties and
to carry out specific project tasks. Each Bureau or KANWIL would be allocated
its own development budget for project activities but no provisions would be
made for special office accommodation.
3.8      The diagram below shows the project implementation organization.
lI
|Mini ster|
Interministerial             Secretary General
Advisory Board
| Project Management           Technical
Unit                   Committee
|Project Inmplementation
Units             l    l
3.9      During appraisal, agreement was reached with the Provincial Secretary
of Yogyakarta that the province would be used as a "test laboratory" during
the development of the complex interrelated components dealing with the coor-
dination of programming and plannirtg, uniform reporting and improved financial



- 17 -
management, and for pilot implementation of the project components.  The
provinces of East and West Java have also agreed to take part in pilot imple-
mentation. The pilot provinces, particularly Dinas PUP, will also contribute
to the provision of data and to technical discussions in relevant project
components such as job analysis, career development, training for provincial
staff, coordination of programming and planning, and uniform reporting.
3.10     To ensure the full transfer of knowledge and experience to public
works, it was agreed that by March 31, 1990 MPW would appoint task managers
and counterparts to consultants and with detailed terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.11     Due to the interrelationship of key project components and the need
for coordination within the central MPW and between the center and provinces,
supervision and evaluation of implementation by MPW would be critical in the
achievement of project objectives. Because of the wide geographic spread,
supervision coefficients would exceed those of MDPI. The critical project
aspects to be closely monitored would be: (a) the review of annual action
plans and preparation of related DUPs during the October-December period;
(b) the review of annual action plans and DIPs for the past and current fiscal
year in the March/April period; (c) evaluation of consultants' development
work in Lhe key components of (i) staff development and (ii) coordination of
programming, planning, control of implementation, improved financial
management and information systems; (d) implementation of the program for
relocation of central staff to key posts in provincial offices, including the
selection process; and (e) progress on key project performance indicators.
3.12     Review of ImRlementation Plan.  During negotiations, a detailed
project implementation plan was agreed together with a program of work for che
first year of implementation.  As agreed, the MPW would carry out the Project
in accordance with an annual action plan satisfactory to the Bank.  A summary
of the project implementation plan is at Annex 9.  The detailed project
implementation plan together with the program of work for the period up to
December 1990 are with the working papers. The Project would be implemented
over a period of five years; the proposed project is expected to be completed
by March 31, 1995 and the closing date would be December 31, 1995.
3.13     Evaluation of Consultants' Work in Key Components.  The terms of
reference for consultants' services would be geared towards progress in stages
allowing fixed periods for review and evaluation of the work at each stage of
development and subsequent agreement on revisions and actions before the
consultant could proceed to the next stage.  MPW staff will be responsible for
monitoring the work of consultants (para. 3.11).  Two independent experts
would be appointed to assist in stage reviews of the staff developmert
components and the coordination, management and information group of
components. The project would provide 8 staff-months of consultant services
for the reviews.
3.14     Progress on Key Indicators.  Annex 10 eomprises a schedule of key
indicators of project progress to be monitored by the PMU and Bank.



- 18 -
3.15     Progress reports will be submitted to the Bank in May and Novembe. of
each year. The reports would focus on the progress of implementation against
targets in physical and financial terms, identifying project problems and
actions taken or proposed to be taken to alleviate problems.
3.16     It was agreed during negotiations that by October 31, 1991 a detailed
evaluation would be carried out by the PMU of project implementation and a
copy of the report of such evaluation submitted to the Bank for review. It
was further agreed that the PMU would submit a project completion report,
covering all aspects of the Project, to the Bank six months after the loan
closing date.
D. Coordination with Projects Assisted by Other Agencies
3.17     The Minister of Public Works has designated the proposed Institu-
tional Development and Training Project as the lead Project in the areas of
manpower deve~lopment and improved management and procedures with which all
other relevant M4PW projects will be required to coordinate. No coordination
problem is expected with ongoing Asian Development Bank (ADB) projects.
Discussions will be held with ADB officials when the reports of the two ADB
project identification studies, in manpower and urban development, are
available. The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is currently
assisting the water resources division of the provincial public works offices
in Nusa Tengara Timur and North Sulawesi. Discussions have been held with
CIDA and future liaison arranged to avoid any duplication. The Government of
the Netherlands will provide assistance in overseas training for the MPW
Inspector General's sta.Cf coordinated with developmei.ts in the proposed Bank
project. The Government of Belgium will provide assistance, during the period
of the project, in overseas training of public works staff in planning. The
project proposes to finance the international transportation costs of the
trainees which cannot be funded by Belgium. The International Development and
Research Council (IDRC) of Canada is currently reviewing a proposal to finance
the provision of information centers at the KANWIL together with related
training. The Overseas Economic Cooperation l'und of Japan (OECF) is funding
the construction and equipping of the MPW Banfiung Institute for Human
Settlements; the OECF assistance excludes the provision of books and furniture
for the Institute's library which will be fundeBd through the project. The
Australian international D-elopment Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) has proposed to
MPW that it send a mission in Junte/July 1989 to appraise a human resources
development project for the Ministry. The aid section of the Australian
Embassy in Jakarta will ensure that AIDAB components deal with aspects not
cove-ed by this Project except where the Bank and AIDAB agree that
complementary assistance by AIDAB to certain aspects of the Bank assisted
project would be beneficial to MPW. The capacity of MPW to coordinate
foreign-financed projects and to avoid overlap and duplication will be
improved through the project component of strengthening the capabilities of
the Bureau of Foreign Collaboration.



- 19 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT,
DISBURSEMENTS AND ACCOUNTS
A. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.1      The total cost of the project is estimated as US$54.0 million
equivalent. The estimated cost by component is summarized in Table 2 and by
category of expenditure in Table 3. Details of costs by component and cate-
gory of expenditure, project expenditure by purpose and year, and total e.pen-
diture by each responsible unit, are given in Annex 11 (Tables 1 through 4).
4.2      Base costs are estimated at January 1989 prices.  Staff training is
based on US$100 per month for loca'l training and US$4,000 per month for
overseas short term training and study visits. Technical assistance costs are
based on unit costs of similar services in programs currently being
implemented in Indonesia. Building costs are based on unit costs of US$180/m2
for laboratories and on construction schedules. Equipment and materials costs
are based on master lists, at current catalog prices, reviewed at appraisal.
4.3      The estimated foreign exchange cost of US$26.7 million, which repre-
sents 49% of the total estimated cost is shown in Table 3. Physical contin-
gencies of 5% of base costs have been allowed. Price contingencies, equi-
valent to about 15% of base costs plus physical contingencies have been esti-
mated in accordance with the implementation schedule and the following
expected annual increases: (a) for foreign costs: 5.3% for 1989 and 1990 and
4.1% for beyond 1991; and (b) for domestic costs 9% for 1989 and 1990 and 5.2%
for beyond 1991. Price contingencies have not been allowed for computers.



20
Table 2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Rp billion           USS million
For-                 For-          for-
Local  eign  Total  Local  eign  Total  eign
Staff Development
Staff planning and career
development                       1.8   2.6    4.4    1.1   1.5    2.6   58
Strengtheninig KANWIL and Dinas    3.7   1.8    5.5    2.1   1.2    3.3   34
Development and implementation
of training programs              7.8   8.1   15.9    4.6   4.7    9.3   51
Subtotal                        13.3  12L5   25.8    7.8   7.4   152.  49
Improvement of Management
Systems and Procedures
ianagement information system       2.6   4.3    6.9    1.6   2.5    4.1   62
Coordination of planning and
pLogramming                       2.3   3.4    5.7    1.4   2.0    3.4   59
Foreign aid collaboration           0.2   0.6    0.8    0.1   0.4    0.5   78
Financial management                0.9   1.2    2.1    0.5   0.7    1.2   57
Control and audit                   0.7   1.2    1.9    0.4   0.7    1.1   63
Procurement                         0.9   0.6    1.5    0.5   0.3    0.8   42
Legal function                      0.4   0.6    1.0    0.3   0.3    0.6   55
Library, archives and public
information                       1.4   1.5    2.9    0.8   0.9    1.7   53
Subtotal                         9.4  13.4   22.8    5.6   7.8   13.4   59
Imnrovement of Oualitv Control
of Construction                      12.6  10.1   22.7    7_4   60   13.4   45
Project Implementation                21     2  426    1.2   1 5    2.7   55
Base Costs (May 1989)           37.4  38.5   75.9   22.0  22.7   44.7   51
Physical contingencies                1.6   1.9    3.5    1.0   1.1    2.1   54
Price contingencies                   7.5   4.9   12.4    4.3   2.9    7.2   39
Total Costs                     46.5  45.3   918.  27.3  26.7    54.0   49
_jak Includes identifiable taxes estimated at about US$2.7 million equivalent.



- 21 -
TaL1le 3: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
RD billion          USS million
For-                For-          for-
Local eign Total Local eign Total eign
Land                                 4.6   0.0    4.6    2.7   0.0    2.7    0
Civil works                          3.0   1.3    4.3    1.8   0.8    2.6   30
Equipment, furniture & materials:
Laboratory equipment               0.9   7.8    8.7    0.5   4.6    5.1   90
Training/office equipment
& furniture                      2.4   5.8    8.1    1.5   3.3    &.8   70
Books and library materials        0.3   0.6    0.9    0.1   0.4    0.5   70
Consultancy services:
International consultants          2.1  16.6   18.7    1.2   9.8   11.0   89
Domestic consultants               6.6   1.1    7.7    3.8   0.7    4.5   15
Training:
Overseas training                  0.1   2.3    2.4    0.1   1.3    1.4   95
Local training                     6.9   1.2    8.1    4.1   0.7    4.8   15
Incremental operating costs         10.5   1.9   12.4    6.2   1.1    7.3   15
Base Costs                     37.4  38.5   5.I   22.0  22.7   44.7  51
Physical contingencies               1.6   1.9    3.5    1.0   1.1    2.1   54
Price contingencies                  7.5   4.9   12.4    4.3   2.9    7.2   39
Total Costs La                 46.5  45.3   91.8   27.3  2b.Z   54,0   Al
/a  Includes identifiable taxes estimated at about US$2.7 million equivalent.
4.4      The project financing plan is shown in Table 4.  The proposed Bank
loan of US$36.1 million would finance 70% of the project costs, excluding
duties and taxes. The remaining US$17.9 million, which includes duties and
taxes estimated at US$2.7 million, would be provided by GOI. Project-related
incremental costs (Annex 12) directly attributable to project activities, but
excluding staff salaries and allowances, total US$9.0 million, including price
contingencies, which represents 17% of project costs. Of this total GOI
budget would contribute US$3.6 million which would include all honoraria, with
the proposed loan financing the remaining amount on a declining percentage
basis. The details of the estimated project-related incremental costs and
their disbursement are in Annex 12.



- 22 -
Table 4: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
IBRD
Proposed             share (%)
Govern-      IBRD                (exclusive
Category                              ment         loan      Total    of taxes)
Land                                   2.8          0.0       2.8           0
Civil works                            2.2          0.8       3.0          30
Equipment, furniture & library
materials                            4.0          7.6      11.6          68
Consultant services                    2.0         15.8      17.8         100
Overseas training                      0.0          1.6       1.6         100
Local training                         2.6          3.2       5.8          55
Project-related incremental costs      3.6          5.4       9.0          60
Unallocated                            0.7          1.7       2.4
Total                            17.9 A       36.1      54.L /a       70
La Includes taxes estimated at US$2.7 million equivalent.



- 23 -
B. Procurement
4.5      The breakdown of project expenditure by procurement category is shown
in Table 5.
Table 5: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
(Figures in parentheses represent loan-financed amounts)
Procurement procedure            Total
Category of expenditure           iCB       LCB      Other la  N.A.    cost Lb
Land                              -         -          -         2.8       2.8
(0.0)     (0.0)
Civil -ntks                       -         3.2       -          -         3.2
(0.8)                         (0.8)
Equipment, furniture, books      10.4       1.1       0.8        -        12.3
and library materials          (7.7)     (0.3)     (0.2)                (8.2)
Consultant services               -         -        18.6        -        18.6
(16.6)              (16.6)
Training                          -         -          -         7.7       7.7
(5.0)     (5.0)
Project Related Incremental
Costs                           -         -         -          9.4       9.4
(5.5)     (5.5)
Total                       10.4       4.3      19.4       19.9      54.0
(7.7)     (1.1)    (16.8)    (10.5)    (36.1)
La Other procurement includes: recruitment of consultants sn accordance with
Bank guidelines, minor equipment items, books and materials expecte-d to be
procured through prudent shopping.
/b Total costs include price and physical contingencies.
4.6      The procurement arrangements would be as follows:
(a)  Civil Works would be awarded in about 18 packages totaling US$3.2
million, spread throughout 18 provinces. Dnue to the wide geographic
spread and the relatively small size of each package, the civil works
are unlikely to be of any interest to foreign contractors and
accordingly would be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Standardized documents and
procedures would be prepared centrally but each KANWIL would be
responsible for local procurement and supervision of construction.
(b)  Equipment and Furniture.  Laboratory equipment for the eighteen
laboratories and computers would be procured centrally through two
international competitive bidding (ICB) packages totaling about
US$6.1 million and US$1.9 respectively. The laboratory equipment
package would be combined with the equipment requirements of the



- 24 -
laboratories, estimated at US$3.1 million, in the nine provinces
which are being assisted under the ongoing Loan 2880-IND (Irrigation
Subsector Loan). Bidding and contract documents would be prepared
centrally which would show the cost for each individual laboratory.
Specialized training equipment for the six regional training centers
and specialized equipment for the public information subcomponent
would be grouped to the extent possible in packages to facilitate
bulk procurement and packages valued at US$200,000 or more (estimated
total value US$2.4 million) would be awarded on the basis of ICB in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. Minor items of office
equipment, furniture, materials and books would be procured through
local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to the Bank
(total estimated value US$1.0 million). Equipment, materials and
books in packages not exceeding US$30,000 would be purchased through
prudent shopping (estimated total value US$0.3 million). For bid
comparison purposes, a margin of preference equal to 15% of the CIF
bid price of imported goods or the actual custom duties and import
taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed to domestic manufacturers
in ICB procurement.
(c) Consultants' Services, detailed in Annex 13, (estimated total value
US$18.6 million) would be selected centrally in accordance with Bank
guidelines. One package would be developed for the selection of
consultant services for the closely interrelated work dealing with
management information systems, coordination of planning and program-
ming and improved financial management.
(d) Training overseas would be arranged by the Ministry with the assis-
tance of the relevant international consultants (estimated total
value US$1.7 million). Local training for central Ministry and
KANWIL staff and relevant staff of Dinas PUP and PUK would be carried
out mainly in the regional training centers of MPW with a small
amount carried out in universities and polytechnics (estimated total
value US$6.0 million). The overall project training program is shown
at Anntex 6; the allocation to PUSDIKLAT and the three Bidang DIKIAT,
of the programs under the sub component for development and
implementation of priority training is at Annex 7.
4.7      Prior Bank review of bidding documents and proposed contract awards
would be required for all contracts for equipment awarded on the basis of ICB,
which represent 85% of the total cost of equipment.
C. Disbursements
4.8      The proposed loan of US$36.1 million would be disbursed over a period
of six years. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1995
(Closing Date) and would be made against the following categories of expendi-
ture: (a) civil works--30% of expenditures; (b) equipment, furniture, books
and library materials--(i) 100% of foreign expenditures of directly imported
goods, (ii) 85% of local (ex-factory) expenditures of locally procured goods
and (iii) 50% of other items procured locally; (c) consultants--100% of expen-
ditures; (d) training--100% of expenditures for overseas training and 55% for



- 25 -
local training; and (e) incremental operating costs excluding honoraria would
be disbursed on a declining scale as follows: 100% of total expenditures in
project year 1, 95% in year 2, 75% in year 3, U5% in year 4, 60% in year 5 and
32% in year 6, and subject to maximum cumulative annual amounts in accordance
with Table 1 of Annex 12.
4.9      Table 6 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements which is based
on the disbursement profile of Indonesian projects with some adjustment to
take the project implementation schedule into account.
4.10     To facilitate disbursement administration, the project would estab-
lish a Special Account in Bank Indonesia, to be maintained by the DG Budget of
the Ministry of Finance, following established procedures. The Special
Account would be used against all categories for local currency payments and
for overseas training in accordance with current procedures. Upon loan
effectiveness and confirmation of the establishment of the Special Account,
the Bank, on receipt of an application from DG Budget, would make an initial
deposit of US$1.0 million, representing an estimated four-monthly disbursement
requirement for local currency and for overseas training.  Subsequent reple-
nishment would be made on the basis of monthly statements submitted to the
Bank by DG Budget or when the balance of the Special Account is reduced to one
half of the initial deposit. Withdrawal applications for goods and services
under a contract value exceeding US$200,000 would be supported by full docu-
mentation. Other disbursements against programs not undertaken by contract
and under contracts not exceeding US$200,000 would be made on the basis of
Statement of Expenditure (SOE).  The DG Budget and PHU or PIU, as appropriate,
would be responsible for aggregating the eligible expenditures and for
preparing withdrawal applications for submission to the Bank. To the extent
practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amnounts of
US$20,000 or more for direct payment, and US$60,000 or more for reimbursement,
prior to submission to the Bank. Replenishment of the Special Account would
be made when the balance of the Special Account reaches about 50% of the
initial deposit, or monthly intervals, whichever occurs first. Supporting
documentation for the SOE would be maintained at PIUs and consolidated at P14U
and at DG Budget, as appropriate, and made available for review by Bank
missions. Assurences were obtained at negotiations that GOI would make
satisfactory arrangements for the establishment of the Special Account and
would set up the necessary organizational ntructure for its operation,
including accounting and auditing procedures.



- 26 -
Table 6:  DISBURSEMENT FORECAST
Indonesia
all sector
IBRD fiscal year                Disbursements             projects La
and semester          Semester    Cumulative            disbursement    Semes-
--- (US$ million) ----            profile (%)       ters
1990
1st (Jul 89-Dec 89)      1.0           1.0         3           0             1
2nd (Jan 90-Jun 90)      1.0           2.0         5           2             2
1991
1st (Jul 90-Dec 90)      2.0           4.0        11           5             3
2nd (Jan 91-Jun 91)      2.0           6.0        17          11            4
1992
1st (Jul 91-Dec 91)      3.3           9.3        26          18             5
2nd (Jan 92-Jun 92)      3.3          12.6        35          28             6
1993
1st (Jul 92-Dec 92)      4.0          16.6        46          38             7
2nd (Jan 93-Jun 93)      4.0          20.6        57          47             8
1994
1st (Jul 93-Dec 93)      4.0          24.6        68          56             9
2nd (Jan 94-Jun 94)      4.0          28.6        79          65            10
1995
1st (Jul 94-Dec 94)      3.4          32.0        89          74            11
2nd (Jan 95-Jun 95)      3.4          35.4        98          81            12
1996
1st (Jul 95-Dec 95)      0.7          36.1       100          88           13
*a  The Indonesian all-sector disbursement profile represents the initial
6-1/2 years of an average disbursement period of 7-1/2 years.
D. Accounts. Audits and Reports
4.11     The PMU will have overall responsibility for establishing, and moni-
toring the use of, a uniform accounting system. Project accounts would be
kept by each of the implementation units, with consolidated accounts kept by
the PMU in accordance with sound accounting practices. During negotiations,
GOI provided assurances that (a) project accounts and separate statements of
expenditure would be prepared every six months for monitoring purposes and
annually for audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
(b) certified copies of the audited consolidated accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year, together with the auditor's report, will be
furnished to the Bank as soon as available but not later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal year.



- 27 -
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.1      The main benefits expected from the project would be that (a) the
training of public works staff would be carried out in a coordinated,
efficient and cost effective manner; (b) KANWIL and Dinas PUP would have well
qualified and experienced personnel in key positions; (c) the public works
*        program of national, provincial and local governments would be more
;        efficiently managed and operated in a coordinated manner; and (d) testing of
the normal range of construction materials would be available in each province
and carried out professionally. Taken together the benefits would facilitate
the decentralization process through the increased capacity of provincial
governments to manage effectively their own public works programs without
project technical assistance from central government.
Risks
5.2      The risks are:  (a) the uncertainty of the pace with which GOI will
implement its decentralization policy and the possible lack of co1"esion in
the policies of the state agencies and ministries involved which, Lor public
works, comprise BAPPENAS, MENPAN, BAKN, MOF, MPW and MOHA; (b) that the
decrees, regulations and procedures, which are now in draft or still under
preparation, to deal with the detailed operating procedures for decentral-
ization, introduce a degree of uncertainty pending their finalization and may
necessitate adjustments to project activities and timing; and (c) that some
provincial government units would lack capacity to implement the improved and
standardized systems and procedures. The risks relating to uncertainty would
be minimized by developing a flexible project design with focus on functions
which would not be dependent on organizational change and with reviews of
programs by the Interministerial Advisory Board. The risk of inadequate
capacity at the provincial level would be minimized by ensuring that key
technical and administrative positions are filled by relocation of experienced
staff only and by introducing the new systems on a phased basis, including
pilot testing.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1      The following agreemlents were reached during negotiations:
(a) qualified and experienced persons would be appointed to the key
technical and administrative staff positions in the KANWIL and Dinas
PUP by October 31, 1992 (para. 2.7);
(b) the informatics policy working group would be established by December
31, 1989 and maintained for the period of the Project (para. 2.16);
(c) the core MIS for the MPW and for the KANWIL and Dinas PUP would be
implemented by October 31, 1992 in the provinces of North Sumatra,
South Sumatra, West Java, Central Java, East Java, in DKI Jakarta, in
the Special Province of Yogyakarta and in the provinces of Bali and
South Sulawesi (para. 2.16);



- 28 -
(d) the Interministerial Advisory Board would be established not later
than November 30, 1989 and maintained for the period of the Project
(para. 3.1);
(e) the Technical Committee would be established not later than November
30, 1989 and maintained for the period of the Project (para. 3.2);
(f) the £MIJ would be fully operational with key staff in place not later
than November 30, 1989 (para. 3.5);
(g) the consultants to provide the services for (i) improved coordination
of planning and programming; (ii) improved financial management;
(iii) MIS; and (iv) foreign aid collaboration would be appointed not
later than February 28, 1990 (para.3.6);
(h) MPW would appoint by March 31, 1990 task managers and counterparts to
consultants in each component with detailed terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.10);
(i) a detailed action plan for project implementation and programs of
work for the first year (para. 3.12). and
(j) a detailed evaluation of project implementation would be carried out
by the PMU by October 31, 1991 and a Report of the evaluation
submitted to the Bank for review (para. 3.16).
6.2      The operation by PUSDIKLAT of a system satisfactory to the Bank for
the management and coordination of the total public works staff training
program would be a condition of disbursement for the priority training shown
in Annex 7, in FY1992/93 and thereafter (para. 2.13).
6.3      With the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$36.1 million equivalent to the Republic
of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five years,
at the standard variable interest rate.



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESTA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
MPW Organization
Ninister
Minster's
Expert staff
Inspectorate                              eea
Gen eral I
IJPecretaritI
INSPECTORATE                               BUREAUS
- Region 2                              -Personnel
-  egion 3                              - Finance
- Region 4                              - Logistics
- Region S                              -Legal Affairs
- Region 6                              - Construction
- General Affairs                         Enterprises
- Special Affairs                         Development
- ForeiRn
Collaboration
- General Affairs
Directorate             Directorate           Directorate      Research &
Giectorate               General               Genral         Development
Pengairan               Bina MarRa  ICipta Karya               .Alency
(Water Resources       (Highways                (Human         (Ea itbang)
Development)                                Settlements)
{Secretariat|      Secretariat|                 Secretariat|   Secretariat|
DIRECTORATES          DIRECTORATES         DIRECTORATES          INSTITUTE;
- Planning &         - Planning s          - Planning &           (PUSLITBANG)
Programming          Prograuning           Programming         -Hydraulic
- Rivers             - Urban Road          - City & Regional      Engineering
- Swamps               Development           Planning            -Highway .
- Irrigation 1       - Operation           - Housing              Engineering
- Irrigation 2          (West Region)      - Public Building    -Human
- Equipment          - Operation           - Environment &        Settlements
(Central             Public Health
Region)           - Water Supply
-  quipment&
Supply
Center for           Center for               Center for            Center for
Education           Construction             Mapping and           Heavy Equip-
& Training        Industry Training          Data Processing       ment Develop-
(Pusdiklat          Development                 (Pusdata)          ment (Pusbinal)
(Pusbinlat)
KANWIL
-Administration
- Technical
- Equipment and
Materials
Testing



INDONESIA
PUBUC WORKS INSTfTUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
MPW Kanwil Organization Structure
|Head of KamCl 
Registration                 Too
3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ppwmwmng| Flnrs  |                                                w,
R ehia ibn| 2  
X   .~~~~~~~~~BWM



- 31 -                        ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
PUBUC WORKS, INSTTUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Organkzton Chag
PROVINCIAL PUBUC WORKS DEPARTMENT (DINAS PUP)
In North, West and South Sumatra,
West, East and Cental Java, South Sulawal.
AdmbbVa*
Persrweoni F~nS     Lgl      Gu
b,                       Ftwd|       To"  d       E=M
m            - 11,= 1   Mm
Lh J         I , I
swanve       CEuU           R    l         =&
Ronadbuaad l  l            a 4 |
_DF_  _ gn  p _ I=049 _D e  &
Head           hilbl~~Ai 1t             AssiaiilHead
forbiWonlorRod                              fo1r BAu
I    l '11                   1 1:~~~ca~  ==11c orvetn 
Rd dof              .      o                        d
Roadsa
,         41       <                {          I              f Ad_n |~~~~~~~~dmksfdo
EKIW4400Ib



INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS, INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
PROVINCIAL PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT (DINAS PUP)
Organization Chart
Small Provinces fl.e.AII Provinces Except the Seven In Annex 3 and Jakarta)
|   JOf DPUP|
Adffldo n|
rPetsonndl | " | A|u1a
|  Fhance  ||GenwW Affairs|
P1r            Swanuneon                 w   |_ng_ls_aE
Ew44
GP>e  | L e    j -     I 4  Ssrdson  | ~~~~~~EW4 woMaoP 
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



- 33-                           ANNEX
Page 1 of 10
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Government Ordinance No. 14/1987
* G E N E R A-L *
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Government Ordinance No. 14/1987
dated June 27, 1987
R E
TRANSFER OF PART OF THE GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS IN THE
FIELD OF PUBLIC WORKS TO THE REGIONS
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,
Considering       a. that with the developments of the tasks in the field of
public works, part of the affairs at the government in
the field of public works that had been transferred to
the Regions on the basis of Government Ordinance No.
18/1953 is no longer in keeping with the development of
the situation;
b. that within the framework of the realization of actual,
dynamic and responsible autonomy pursuant to Law No.
5/1974, Government Ordinance No. 18/1953 needs to be
replaced:
c. that in this context, it is necessary to issue a Govern-
ment Ordinance.
Bearing in mind:  1. Article 5 paragraph (2) of the Constitution of 1945;
2. Law No. 5/1974 on governmeat principles in the regions
(State Gazette of 1974, No. 37, Supplement to State
Gazette No. 3037);
3. Law No. 11/>74 on Irrigation (State Gazette of 1974
No. 65, Supplement to State Gazette No. 3046);
4. Law No. 13/1980 on Roads (State Gazette of 1980 No. 83,
Supplement to State Gazette No. 3046);
H A S D E C I D E D :
To stipulate   : GOVERNMENT ORDINANCE ON THE TRANSFER OF PART OF THE GOVERN-
MENT AFFAIRS IN THE FIELD OF PUBLIC WORKS TO THE REGI3NS.



- 34 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 10
CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1.
In this Government Ordinance:
a. Minister shall mean the Minister in charge of public works.
b. Ministry shall mean a ministry whose functions and tasks are to run govern-
ment affairs in the field of public works.
c. Public works shall mean part of the government functions in the fields of
irrigation, road construction and human settlements.
d. Irrigation shall mean the taking care of affairs with regard to water,
water sources, including non-animal natural resources carried in them, both
naturally and those that havy been handled by man.
e. Road construction shall mean the taking care of roads, namely land communi-
cation infrastructure in whatever form covering all parts of roads includ-
ing supplementary structuris and their equipment to serve traffic, as
referred to in Law No. 13/1980 on roads.
f. Human Settlements shall mean the taking care of urban and regional space,
building structures, housing, clean water, and a health environment of
human settlement.
Article 2.
Without prejudice to the tasks and responsibilities of the Minister, the first
level region and second level region concerned will be given part of the
affairs in the field of public works pursuant to the stipulation in this Gov-
ernment Ordinance.
CHAPTER II
THE KINDS OF AFFAIRS TRANSFERRED
Article 3.
Part of the affairs in public works as referred to in Article 2 transferred to
the first level regional administration covers:
A. Part of the irrigation affairs, namely:
1. the drawing up of an irrigation water supply plan for meeting the need
of the first level region concerned, for decision of the Minister on
the basis of water need consideration for use of various purposes;
2. the irrigation water supply on the basis of existing plans;



- 35 -
Page 3 of 10
3. the granting of permission for the use of irrigation water and irriga-
tion networks;
4. fixing irrigation periods for each irrigation area for water distribu-
tion in the most beneficial way;
5. deciding on priority in irrigation water distribution according to the
local situation and condition;
6. the realization of the construction and repair of the main network and
its complementary structures;
7. the exploitation and maintenance of irrigation network and drainage as
well as their complementary structures starting from the water taking
structure to a 50-meter pilot channel of the structure for the taking
of the water;
8. safeguards for securing the irrigation functions and the relevant com-
plementary structures within the first level region concerned;
9. the licenses/permits for changing and/or removing structures and irri-
gation network channels and their complementary structures;
10. licenses/permits for building, changing or removing structures other
than those referred to in point 9 inside, on or crossing the irrigation
network.
B. Part of road construction affairs, namely:
1. the drawing up a long-term general scheme, a medium-term plan and the
drawing up of a program for the realization of secondary road network
for the Special District of the Capital City of Jakarta;
2. the technical planning and conscruction of:
a. Primary collecting roads linking the capital of first level regions
with the capital of second level regions;
b. Primary collecting roads linking the capitals of second level
regions;
c. Roads other than those referred to in points a and b having strate-
gic significance to the interests of the first l.evel regions;
d. Roads within the special district of the capital of Jakarta except
roads belonging to the group of national level roads;
3. The technical planning and road construction on secondary road networks
in the Special District of the Capital of Jakarta;



- 36 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 10
4. The maintenance of:
a. Primary collecting roads linking the capitals of first level regions
with the capitals of second level regions;
b. The primary col'lecting roads linking the capitals of second level
regions;
c. Roads other than those belonging to the group of roads as referred
to .n points a and b, which are of strategic significance to the
interests of first level regions;
d. Roads within the Special District of the Capital of Jakarta, except
those belonging to national roads;
5. The decision on status as provincial roads.
The first level regional administrations shall make a proposal to the
Minister of Home Affairs to stipulate by decree road sections as pro-
vincial roads on:
a. Primary collecting roads linking the capitals of first level regions
with the capitals of second level regions;
b. The primary collecting roads linking the capitals of second level
regions;
c. Roads other than those belonging to the group of roads as referred
to in points a and b, which are of strategic significance to the
interests of first level regions;
6. The decision on status as regency reads on:
a. Primary collecting roads not included in the group of national roads
and provincial roads;
b. Primary local roads;
c. Secondary roads other than those included in the group of national
and provincial roads;
d. Roads other than those included in those referred to in points a and
c having a strategic significance to the interests of second level
regions;
7. Decision on status as kotamadya roads on:
a. Secondary arterial roads;
b. Secondary collecting roads;



-37 -                            ANNE
Page 5 of 10
C. Part of Human Settlements Affairs:
1. The drawing up of general schemes on city space of first level regions
and the space utilization programs for first level regions or some of
the detailed scheme on space for development regional unit the area of
which constitute part of a different second level region, except first
level regions having a national interest and the development regional
unit having a national inte; -.
2. The drawing up of the technical plan on space, the preparation of space
and the control of the tLtilization of space for human settlement units
the area of which constitute part of a different second level region,
except human settlement units having a national interest.
3. The guidance for the development and management of housing environment
infrastructure and facilities.
4. The procurement, utilization and maintenance of buildings owned by a
first level regional administration.
5. The development of the ordinances and control of the construction,
maintenance and utilization of building structures.
6. Guidance for the planning, construction, maintenance and management of
village clean water with pipe networks and artesian wells.
7. The planning, procurement and management of clean water covering the
interests of more than one second level region.
8. The guidance for the construction, maintenance and management of clean
water supply infrastructure and means.
9. The guidance for the constructioli, maintenance and management of gar-
bage disposal infrastructure and means, waste water disposal means and
drainage at human settlements in second level regions.
10. The coordination of the construction, maintenance and management of
garbage and waste water disposal used 'by more than one second level
region.
11. The construction, maintenance and management of urban drainage network
serving more than one second level region.
Article 4.
Part of the public works affairs as referred to in Article 2 transferred to
second level regions cover:
A. Part of irrigation, namely:
The establishment and/or development of associations of water using farmers
who are organizationally, technically and financially able to be entrusted
with the task and obligation of development, rehabilitation, exploitation



- 38 -
38 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX S
Page 6 of 10
and maintenance of irrigation systems as well as the relevant auxiliary
structures in tertiary, quarterly, village and subak plots with due observ-
ance of the development of irrigation areas.
B. Part of road construction, namely:
1. The drawing up of long-term plans, medium-term plans and the drawing up
of programs for the materialization of secondary road networks:
a. In cities which are capitals of first level regions, to the second
level regional administrations concerned with directives of the
Governor, Head of first level region;
b. In cities which are no second level regions, and which are no capi-
tals of first level regions, to the second level regional adminis-
trations;
c. In cities which are second level regions and which are no first
level regional capitals to second level regioral administrations.
2. The technical planning and construction of:
a. Primary collecting roads not included in the group of national roads
and the group of provincial roads;
b. Primary local roads;
c. Secondary roads other than those included in the group of national
and provincial roads;
d. Roads other than those referred to in points a, b, and c, having a
strategic significance to the interests of second level regions;
e. Secondary road networks within second level regions.
3. The maintenance of:
a. Primary collecting roads not included in the group of national roads
and provincial roads;
b. Primary local roads;
c. Secondary roads other than those included in the group of national
and provincial roads;
d. Roads other than those referred to in points a, b, and c, having a
strategic significance to the interests of second level regions;
4. Decision on the status of secondary local road sections as kotamadya
(municipal) roads;
5. The decision on the status of road sections as rural roads.



-39 -                              ANNE  $
Page 7 of 10
C. Part of Human Settlements Affairs.
1. The drawing up of general schemes on space of second level regions and
the space utilization programs for second level regions and detailed
plans on space for development regional units, except second level
regions (kabupatens) and development regional units having a national
and/or provincial interest.
2. The drawing up of a general scheme plan on urban space and a space uti-
lization for cities, a detailed plan on space for city areas, except
those having a national and/or provincial interest.
3. The drawing up of space technical plan, the preparation of space and
control of the space utilization for settlement units, except settle-
ment units having a national and/or provincial interest.
4. The drawing up of space technical plans, the preparation of space and
the control of regional space utilization for cities, except urban
areas having a national and/or provincial interest.
5. The arrangement and guida,ce of housing construction and housing envi-
ronment, infrastructure 4ind facilities.
6. The construction, maintenance and management of housing environment
infrastructure and facilities.
7. The ordinance and control of construction, maintenance and use of
building structures.
8. The construction, maintenance and management of public service build-
ings, fields, parks and public cemeteries.
9. The ordinance and control of the prevention and overcoming of fires.
10. The construction, maintenance and management of clean water supply
means and infrastructure.
11. The construction, maintenance and management of garbage disposal, waste
and human settlement drainage system.
12. The construction, maintenance and management of waste water disposal
means and facilities in human settlements.
13. The construction, maintenance and management of cleanliness service
means facilities.
Article 5.
(1) The transfer of part of government affairs in public works to first level
regional administrations and second level regional administrations as
referred to in this Government Ordinance is carried out by the Minister on
the basis of an evaluation by the Minister of Home Affairs according to
the ability of the region concerned to accept it.



-40 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 10
(2) With due observance of the technical and financial capacity of the second
level regional administrations, the first level regional administrations
may further transfer the government affairs as referred to in paragraph
(1) to the second level regional administrations.
CHAPTER III
ORGANIZATION
Article 6.
(1) Except for the Special District of the Capital of Jakarta, public works
affairs will be left to first level regions, and first level regional
administration concerned may form an irrigation public works service, a
road construction public works service and a Human Settlements public
works service.
(2) With due observance of paragraph (1), the Special District of the Capital
of Jakarta, and second level regions, may establish services in public
works affairs according to existing needs.
(3) A guide for the formation of an organization and work procedure of public
works services shall be determined by the Minister of Home Affairs pursu-
ant to the existing relevant laws.
CHAPTER IV
PERSONNEL AFFAIRS
Article 7.
Problems with regard to personnel arising as a consequence of the transfer
of part of the public works affairs as referred to in this Government
Ordinance shall be further dealt with in accordance with the existing relevant
laws.
CHAPTER V
GUIDANCE AND TECHNICAL CONTROL
Article 8.
(1) The minister conducts the technical guidance and control of the public
works affairs that have been transferred and realized by the first level
regional administrations and second level regional administrations.
(2) The technical guidance as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be further
dealt with by the Minister after hearing the suggestions and considera-
tions of the Home Affairs Minister.
(3) The technical control as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be further
regulated by the Minister.



- 41 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 10
Article 9.
(1) In handling the public works affairs that have been transferred to the
first level regions, the first level regional head shall submit periodic
reports to the Minister and the Minister of Home Affairs.
(2) In handling the public works affairs that had been transferred to the
second level regions, the second level regional head shall submit a perio-
dic report to the Governor first level regional head, the Minister and the
Minister of Home Affairs.
(3) In handling public works affairs that had been transferred to the first
level region, and second level region, the first level regional adminis-
tration and second level regional administration concerned shall be
required to observe the relevant laws and the stipulations on their imple-
mentation in public works affairs.
CHAPTER VI
FINANCING AND ASSETS
Article 10.
(1) The financing relating to the transfer of part of the public works affairs
as referred to in this Goverrunent Ordinance, shall be sought through
sources within the budgets of the regional administrations concerned or
through funding aid from the government pursuant to the existing relevant
laws.
(2) All levies and charges in public works that have been handed to first and
second level regions shall form the income of the first and second level
regions, and shall be further dealt with by regional ordinances.
Article 11.
(1) The assets relating to the transfer of part of the public works as
referred to in this Government Ordinance shall also be transferred to
become the assets of first and second level regional administrations con-
cerned.
(2) The transfer of the assets as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be pursu-
ant to the existing relevant laws.
CHAPTER VII
TRANSITIONAL PROVISION
Article 12.
The stipulations as the rules of implementation of Government Ordinance
No. 18/1953 which was already existing prior to the going into effect of this
Government Ordinance remain effective till the issuance of a new provision on
the basis of this Government Ordinance.



-42 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 10
CHAPTER VIII
CONCLUDING PROVISION
Article 13.
The stipulations on the implementation of this Government Ordinance shall
be further dealt with by the Minister after hearing the suggestion and consid-
eration of the Minister of Home Affairs.
Article 14.
With the stipulation of this Government Ordinance, Government Ordinance
No. 18/1953 on the transfer of part of the affairs of the central government
public works to the provinces and the confirmation on matters relating to
public works from the autonomous regions of Kabupaten-level Kota Besar-level
and Kota Kecil-level in Java (State Gazette of 1953 No. 31, Supplement to
State Gazette No. 395) is decreed null and void.
Article 15.
This Government Ordinance shall take effect as froma the date of promulga-
tion.
For the information of the public, it is instructed to promulgate this Govern-
ment Ordinance by inserting it in the State Gazette of the Republic of
Indonesia.
Promulgated at Jakarta                                     Stipulated at Jakarta
on June 27, 1987                                           on June 27, 1987
THE MINISTER/STATE SECRETARY                       THE PRESIDENi OF THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA,
sgd.
sgd.
SUDHARMONO S.H.
S O E H A R T O
STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA OF 1987 NUMBER 25.



PUDLIC WOKS INSTIIITIONA3 DEVELVOPET AMD TRAINING PROOECT
Sumeary of Training Preen. am    Yer 3999-9V5
Local training                                                                   Overusea  Ironing
CWaonent                      1989/90      1990/91         1991/92          1992193         1993194         1194195    Total        1919190 3990/91 3991/92 19,92/93 1993/94 1994/95  Total
Staff and Institutional Deveoleount (33
Stiff planning and career develapumnt
-Study visitsiushort courseIs /                                                                                                                0       26      26       0       0        0      52
-Planning svsteas                      2436)I         46 1   2431     493t  36)1    463   3641         493(  36 1    0       2344  140')
-Pr4noranctapraija1/iob analysis    403123           I 300    40 1    1003I  503I   1003   60)         693   5031    0        4093( 212 )
Development & taplegentatiOn of
training pregraiss
-111anageaent                           251335       110    703    3 653   95)        100    60)    1003   6031    0          5003( 3003        0      30      15      15       10       0      50
-Cross-sectoral training               253353I    1353   703    3604   95             to 100    60)    1003I  603)   0       5001 30033
-Sectoral(tech.proi inngt,O&N)         3003i2003  1,245   9003  3 ,2553  9 003 I3,100 3  700)  1,1003  1 00I    0    5,000 (3,20033   0                15      15      15       15       0      60
-Training &training management          s03203I   1803   903          1703   903    1003   70)    1003I  70)    0             600 4  34033
Subtotal for 31)                    464 (270i  1,798 31,094 1 1,898 31,t663  1,5498  9963  1,51k 3  976)    0    7,2243(4,492)              0       51      54      30      25        0     162
Mir ocedures' T3)13set   "os
Nanagement inforuatioa system              0           25031  503)   31333   63)    1633t  623            503o  5031    0       7753( 225)        0      13      20       30       0       0      43
Coordination of plunning & prograasing    0              0              275             275              275           215    1,100                                                                lb
Foreign aid collaboration                  0            25               503t  2531      303(  30)         0             0      10531  55)                                                         0
Financial unagemest                        0            46               463   203)    473(  2031          0             0      1793   4031    0         10      10        0       0       0      20
Control and audit                          0           3133i  1231   1133   1231   1133t  13)1            13   3 33      0      350    50 )                                                        0
Procurment                                 0           10031  25 )    2003   5031   2253(  50)    17531003o              0      700422531                                                          0
Legal function                             0             0               25              25               0              0       50           .0         15      15       0        0       0      s0
Library, archives & public inforsation    0            143              100             t00             too              0      443              0       24      22       0        0       0      46
Subtotal for 3113                     0           6743   8 91   1,1213  17031   9773( 175)    413 1  16331 275    3,702 3 59531    0                61      67      10       0        0     139
Impp"sen  of, Guality Control
ofinsructioo 3111
0           2653( 265)    265     2633    265265653W   2553i 255)1    0    1,050 (1,0501              0        0       0       0       0        0       0
TOTAL                         464 327031  2,7393(1,446)  3.294 31,601 1 2,790331,4263  2,394 31,394 )  275   11,9763(6,137)            0      112     123      40      25        0     301
/a Includes KANWIL sitaff.
lb Provides travel allowances only.
Figures in parentheses show the number of staff-months allocated for provincial staff.
Som totals do not adl, up due to rounding.



- 44~ -ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPHENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Allocation of Priority Staff Trainina Prourams, 1989/9G-1993/94
(Staff-months)
------------------------------------------------..------------__-------------__-
Program                     1989/90  1990191  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94   Total
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__
PUSDIKLAT
Manaoement
Project management         10        45       65       40        40      200
Short specialist            15       65      100       60        60      300
Subtotal                 25       110      165      100       100      500
Technical
Survey                      5        15       20       20        10       70
Specialist upgrading       20       100      140       80        90      430
Subtotal                 25       115      160      100       100      500
Training
Training methods           30       110      100       60        60      360
Training tanagement        20        70       70       40        40      240
Subtotal                 JO       180      170      100       100      600
DIKLAT Penoairan
(Water Resources)
Project management           25       110      115      100       100      450
Technical upgrading          65       280      285      250       250    1,130
O&H                          40       170      170      150       150      680
Subtotal                130       560      570      500      500    2,260
DIKLAT Bina Marga
(Highways)
Project management            15       60       50       50        50      225
Technical upgrading          30       130      140      120       120      540
O&f                          20        95       90       80        80      365
Subtotal                 65       285      280      250      250    1,130
DIKLAT Cipta Karva
(Human Settlements)
Project management           30        80       80       70        70      330
Technical upgrading          50       190      200      170       170      780
O&f                          25       130      125      110       110      500
Subtotal                105       400      405      350      350    1,610
Total                    400    1,650    1,750    1,400    1,400    6,600
----- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _ ---_ -----  -----_         __     __ _



- 45 -                 ~~~~~ANNEX 8
~45 
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
List of Key Procurement Dates
Key Dates
Detailed Terms of Reference, Proposed Documents          Documents      Sign
and Short Lists for Consultants' Services,                ready        contract
Bidding Documents for Civil Works and Equipment           before       before
Consultants for management information system           06/30/89     03/01/90
Consultants for planning, budgeting and program-
ming                                                  06/30/89     03/01/90
Consultant for Bureau KLN                               06/30/89     03/01/90
Consultant for financial management                     06/30/89     03/01/90
Consultants for P1MU                                    06/30/89     11/30/89
Consultants for improvement of personnel systems        06/30/89     04/01/90
Consultants for development and implementation of
training programs                                     06/30/89     04/01/90
Consultants for strengthening KANWILS and Dinas         06/30/89     04/01/90
Consultants to improve control and audit                06/30/89     11/30/89
Consultants to improve procurement                      06/30/89     11/3('89
Consultants for upgrading libraries, ecc.               06/30/89     11/30/89
Consultants to improve legal function                   06/30/89     01/01/90
Building works at 18 KANWIL testing laboratories        06/30/89     10/31/89
Equipment for 18 KANWIL laboratories                    06/30/89     06/30/90



ANNEX 9
- 46 -
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
Prolect Implementation Plan
1990      1991      1992       1993      1994
Manpower development and
training
Manpower planning                  xx xxxx xxxxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Personnel system                   xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Career planning                    xx xxxx xxxxxxx
Manpower development               xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xcxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Mgmt. & coordination of trng.      xx xxxx xxxi xxxx xxx
PrIority training                       xxxx  xxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Hanagement information system
Plan changes                       xx xxxx xxX
Design changes                             xxxx xxxx
Implement changes                                xxix  xxx xxx
Coordination of planning             xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
and programming
Foreign collaboration                xx xxxx xxxx xxxi xxxx
Financial improvements
Design                             xx xxxx xxxx
Implement                                        xxxx xxxx xxxx xxx
Audit
Revise performance audit           xx xxx
Manuals                                 xx xxxx
Procurement
Publish standard documents LCB xxxx xxxx xxxx
Develop LCB                        xx xxxx xxx
Implement LCB                                    xxxx xxxx
Libraries, archives and PR
Network                          xxxIx. xxx
Archives programs                xxxx xxxx
Archives operational                        xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Testing laboratories
Build                           Ixxxx xxxx xxxx
Equip buildinus                 j          xxxxxxx xxIx xxxx  xxxx



- 47   -                                                  Pas  1 of )
HINISTRY OF PUBLIC wORKS. I      mSTI!U?!0UIL     GMEMLOPPY  MID TRAINIS  PROJECT
KeU Prolect Imolementation MonLtorins Iulndatorr
Np5adituJ?s (Rp million) for GOI
Contract                                        fitcAl y*ars  ineludine continaancleAl
L&SD9Sure                                      ULi2  I2Li~  IW CmD1LtLn 89/0  90191  912  92193  
Physical Comuonents
Civil vorks. equipment
Ranvil laborntortes                   10189                           10191         827  1,657   2,067    409
Equipment for Kanwil
laboratories                        06190                           04i92           -  3,513   3,513  3,513
Staff trained
Consultant montho by GOl fiscal Year               in months by 001 fLsal wear
89190 12U/ 2V1-U 2/93 2IW9 949 S9/90 90/91 2"  2am    94195
Staff and Institutional Deylooment
Personnel systems                        12     64      78     42      6       -       64       8     148   148      116      -
Develop and implement local
training programs                      18    108    150    102      30       -      400  1,650   1,750 1.400   1,400        -
Imorovement of ranaaement Systems
and Procedures
MIS                                       8     24      28      6      6       6        -    263      333   172       50      -
Coordination of planning
and programing                         21     80      79     74     48      39        -       -     275   275      275    275
Foreign aid collaboration                 4     14      13      -      -       -        -     25       50    30        -      -
Flnancial manement                       13     42      43     35     39       -        -      56      56    47        -      -
Control and audit                         6     40      44     18      4       -        -    113      113   112       12      -
Procurement                               7     24      15      2      -       -        -    100      200   225      175      -
Legal                                     -     30      30     12      -       -        -      40      40      -       -      -
Library. archives                         6     12      12      6      -       -        -    167      122   100      100      -
Ouality Control
of Construction                           -      -       -      -      -       -        -    265      265   265      255      -



ANN1
-48-                                 Page 2 of 3
Component Development and Training
1989/90  1990/91   1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
ManRower Development and Training
Manpower planning                                                                x
Personnel system                                              x
Career development system                                     x
Manpower development (including
functional jobs and job evaluation)                                                     x
Coordinated staff training                                    x
system
Priority training                                                                x
Management Systems and Procedures
MIS
- review, revise, complete                        x
- operational MPW                                           x
- operational 8 provinces                                            x
Coordinated Planning Programming
- complete development                            x
- pilot - three provinces                                   x
- revisions                                                          x
- operational MPW and                                                          x
8 provinces
Foreign Aid Collaboration
- Restructure procedures                           x
- Classification system                  x
- Operational assistance                                     x



ANN= 10
- 49 -                                Page 3 of 3
1989/90  1990/91   1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95
Financial Management
- Complete development                             x
- Testing, revision                                          x
- Operational MPW                                            x
- Operational provinces                                               x
Control and Audit
Revise performance audit                   x
Manuals                                             x
Procu-emenkt
ICB - -ivll works operational                       x
Develop LCB                                         x
LCB operational                                               x
Legal Functlons
Data Base in MPW, Dinas PUP                         x
Review procedures, operational MPW                  x
Library. Archives and Public Information
- Network operational (libraries)         x
- Archives program                        x
- Archives operational                                                 x
Ouality Control of Construction
- Completion civil works                            x
- Completion equipment                                        x
- Production of manuals



PlUBLC Wu   DSTIMTIib l    LOIT    AD MS 1961      Fmm.T
9M11 kXIt hs PM.ct CMl1t
(P. Billion)
Ieuw          f DF M iniu SIS AD R       5CCMstE
STAF MI INSTITUMI  EELOPIET 
STNT PLMI                        3CwL      t I              COXATnoN OF                                                             mo s I  DFnJ   aF
PI CU        SIUISTII     W NTAUN Or Imm                    PLMNINS I      FfIN AID  FIlIWI        CtNO                   1EaM      UIt        st_  wcm=        m1T
IWI          KMML AND DUt4s TMIENS UWME  I1NFTIWN   OM IS    CLAWATIOI 9                       WM S (D1UDIT  PUrM FWfUtTIWN nFMI0N O CMTU ON aI cWD TTIT
W)1)           462)             (63        SYS   (64)       (5)           (16)          17)       (10)       (49)      (A1O)      (Atl         (612)          (413)      Totl
a fSflhrs  .==n=                                  ~ fnrt   =r:SS=f= _: _f = =a=                                  -=5    =fl=f   's                            __   -
1. T     1 camT M
4. L                                                      -               -                -           -               -             -          -         -           -        -           -            4.6              -   4.6
B. cmE Illll                                                                              0.93         -                                                                                                 .l              -   4.3
C. ER~. FUYTU AM MATERIAL
1. LAMM  MOW                                           -                                                                                     -         --                   --a7                                      -   E7
2. PVIIE EUIET  MSD fIIlTUE                          0.5               -               2.2         3.7            0.1             -        9.1       0.0         0.0      0.0         ,.0            0.             0.0   8.2
3. KM3  4M  LIl  1TER14LS                                               -                      -            -       -                        -       0.1         0.3                  0.5            0.1                  0.9
9b-Tate) EMPIUWIT9 FUIITUE AD M ATERIIALS               0.5               -               2.2         3.7            0.1             -        0.1       0.1         0.3      0.0         1.4            9.2            0.0  17v.
D. iLmSY B0RE 
1. FiIIE     IMILTOiIS                               (.0             1.4               5.2         1.3            3.0           0.7        1.0       1.2         0.3      0.3           -              -            2.5  18.7
2. WltSTIC CCILTIITS                                 0.E             1.6               1.0         0.1            1.1             -        0.7       0.3         0.2      0.3         0.2             0.4           1.0   7.7
Mi-To:dl  tl T5t SRWiL                                 2.6              3.1              6.2         1.4             4.1           0.7       16        1.5         0.5      0,6         0.2            0.4            3.5  26.4
E. TRAIINO
1. meS  TEtS                                        0.4               -               0.7         0.3            0.3             -        0.1         -           -      0.2         0.3              -              -   2.4
2. LOUL TRA1I11N                                     0.4               -               4.5         0.5            0.7           0.1        0.1       0.2         0.5      0,0         0.3            0.7              -   0.1
&A-Totl T191Il                                         0 0                -              5.2         0.0             1.1           0.1        0.2       0.2        0O5       0.2         0.6            0.7             -  10.5
Tota IIIIESINT COSTS                                      3.9              3.1             13.9         5.9            5,3           0.8        1.9       1.9         1.3      0.9         2.3            19.0           3.5  63.6
It. REinm cmSTS
A.  WIENrI. OPEARTII EDIWI0ITIMES                      0.5             2.5              2.0         1.0             0.4          0-1        0,1        0.1         0.2      0.1         0.6              -            1.1   0.6
B. MICTE                                                -                -                -           -               -                       -                     -        -           -             3.0             -   3.0
Total REMO IT COSTS                                       0.5              2.5              2.0         1.0            0.4           0.1        0.1       0.1         0.2      0.1         0.6             3,8           1.1  12.4
Total OADELIE CMTS                                         4.4              5.6             15-9         6.9            5.7           0.0        2.1       1.9         1.5      1.0         2.9            22.7           4.6  75.?
flucal CmtUMmIife                                       0.2              0-2              0.B         0.3             0.3          0.0         0.1       0.1         0.1      0.0         0.1            0.9            0.2   3.5
tpict Ctiidchies                                        0.6              1.0              2.7         0.6             1.1          0.1        0.3        0.3         0.3      0.1         0.5            3.7            0.9  12.3
Total POW11  CmSTS                                         5.2              6-0             19-4         7.9             7.1          1.0        2-5       2.3         1.0       1.2         3.5           27.4           5.7  "9.       . 
.z   _.S.sr.  == =      s3l.S            =       =     cs       =  .-.                  . ___   _-tt               .f..__.:t            ===f=__               _ =  a 2 
Taw                                                     0.4              0.4              1.1         0.2             0.6           0.1        0.2      0.2         0.1       0.1         0.2            0,6            0.5   4.6     c
Fofeim  Ecime                                            2.9             2.2              9.6         4.7             4.1           0.7        1.4       1.4         0.7      0.6         1.0           12.1            3.1  45-3    - -
Note:  Some totals do not add up due to rounding.



INDONESIA
PUBLIC VORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Proiect Cosponents bv Year
Totals Ircluding Continrencies             Totals Including Contingencies
(RP. Billion)                              (US$ Killion)
8Y/90 ?0/91  91192 92/93 93/94 94/95 Total  89/?O 90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/95 Total
* STAFF AND "NSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1. STAFF PLANNING AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT (Al)                    0.3   2*0   2,0  0.7   0.3      -   5.2    0.2   1.2   1.1   0.4   0.2      -   3.1
2. STRENGTHENING KANVIL AND DINAS (A2)                           0,5   1.9   1,4  1. 5   1.1   0.3   6.8    0.3   1.1   0.8   0.9   0.7   0.2   4.0
3. DEVELOPHENT I IMPLEMENTATION OF TRAINING PROGRAMS (A3)        1.4   5.0   5.7   4*3  3.0      -  19,4    068  3.0   3.4   2.5   1.7       -  11.4
*b-Total STAFF AND INSTITUTINAL DEVELOPMENT                       2.2   9.0   9.1   6.5   4,4  0.3  31.4    1.3   53   5.4   3.8   2.6   0,2  18.5
. IMPROVEMENT OF MANAGMEENT SYSTEMS AND PROCEDURES
1. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (A4)                           0.1  11   3.7   2.2   0.5  0.3   7.9   0.1   0.6   2.2   1.3   0.3   0,2   4.6
2. CORINATION OF PLANNING I PROAMING ()                          0,4   1.4   1.7   1.5   1.1   0,9   7,1    0.3   0.8   1.0   0.9  0.6   0.6  4.2
3. FOREIGN AID CLABORATION (A6)                                  0.1   0,4   0,4   0,0   0.0     -   1.0   0.1   0,2  0.2   0.0   0.0        -   0,6
4. FINANCIAL MNAEBT  (A7)                                        0.2   0.7   0.8   0,5   0,3     -   2.5   0.1   0.4   0.5   0,3   0.2       -   1.5
5. CONROL ANDAUDIT (AB)                                          0.0   0.8   1.0   0.4   0.1   0.0   2.3    0,0  0.5   0,6   0.2   0.0   0.0   1.4
6. PROCUREM  T (09)                                              0,1   0.6   0.3   0.3   0.3  0.1   1.8   0,1   0.4   0,2  0,2   0.2   0.1   1.1
7. LEGAL FUNCTION (AlO)                                            -   0.5   0*5   0.1   0.0   0.9   1.2      -   0.3  0.3   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.7
8, LIDRRY, ARCHIYES I PUBLIC INFOMATION (All)                    0.0   1.1   1.1   0,7   0.5   0.2   3.5    0.0   0.6   0.7   0,4   0.3   0.1   2.1
Sub-Total IM MT     OF MNAGMNT  SYSTEMS AND PROCERES                1.0   6.7   9.5   5,8   2,7   1.6  27.3    0.6   3.9   5.6   3.4   1.6   0.9  16.0
C. IMPROVEMNT OF QUALITY CONTROL OF CONSTRUCTION (A12)              4.9   5.2   6.4   7.6   1.8   1.4  27.4    2,9   3.0   3.8   4.5  1.1   0.8  16.1
B. PROCT IPN TATION (013)                                           0.4   1.2   1.3   1.3   1.0  0.5   5.7    0.2   0.7   0,8  0.8   0,6   0.3   3.4
tal PROJECT COSTS                                                   8.4  22.0  26.4  21.2  9.9   3.8  91.8    4,9  12*9  15.5  12.5   5.8   2,3  54.0  
ote:   Some totals do not add up due to iounding.



KIWIDESIA
ULIC VW8 IlNSTlTUTIOIAL DEVELOPIT MID TI°BRAll MMO.ECT
S&marv Aonts by Year
Totals Including Cantiomies             Totals Inlluding Continimiies
(RPI. Billion)                          01S) Killion)
89/90 90/91 91m   92/93 93/94 94/95 Total s9/90 90/91 91m  92/93 939 9495 Total
==== =    :===   3=  ==  =  =33  a= a33333  33333=3
10 DKBTmfn COST
A. LAID                                         4.8    -    -    -    -    -  4.8   2*8    -    -    -    -    -  2.8
B. CVIL VW315                                     -  1*4  1.8  2.2    -    -  5.4          -  0.8  11  1.3    -    -  3.2
C. EWIPINWT, FRRITtUE AR NAIERILS
1 LABRATOlRY EB ET                             -  3.3  3.4  3.6    -    - 10.3          -  1.9  2.0  2.1    -    -  6,1
2. OFFICE EWPIFENT AND FIRIIITE                -  1.7  4,3  2.6  0.7    -  9.3          -  1.0  2.5  1.5  0.4    -  5.5
3. IDMS AD LDRT NATERILS                       -  0.3  0.2  0.2  0.3  0,1  1.1          -  0.2  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.1  0.7
S-Total EWIPIENTW  FIETIE AID TElRIALS            -  5*4  7.9  6,4  0.9  0.1 20.7          -  3.2  4.7  3.7  0.6  0.1 12.2
D. COIU1LT0C SERVICES
1. FO NI6N CDIEISWTMITS                       1.5  6,8  7.0  3.9  1.9  0.9 22.0   0.9  4.0  4.1  2.3  1.1  0.5  12.9
2.  IESTIC CNSLTMNTS                          0.8  2.5  2.6  2.2  1.1  0.4  9.6   0.5  1.5  1.6  1.3  0.6  0.2  5.7
SuTotal COSILTMICY SERVICES                     2.2  9.4  9.6  6.1  3.0  1.3 31.6   1.3  5.5  5,7  3.6  1.8  0.8 18.6
E. TRINIIS
1. ORSS  TRAINING                           01   1.0  1.1  0,3  0.2    -  2.8  01  0.6  0.7  0,2  0.1    -  1.7
2. LOCL MRIAININ                              0,6  2.0  2.6  2.5  2.2  0,3  10.3   0,4  1,2  1.6  1.5  1.3  0.2  6,1
Sub-Total TRAININ                              0.8  3.1  3.8  2.8  2.5  0.3 13.2   0.5  1.8  2.2  1.7  1.5  0,2  7.7
Total INVESTT CGSTS                                7.8  19.2 23.1  17.5  6.4  1.7 75.7   4.6  11.3 13.6 10,3  3,8  1.0 44.5
=          = 3::3333:33   _333:3 =       333: =   = _33 = 33 = 3: = 333
it I ECURR   COm
A. INEIENTAL IPERATINI EXBIDITIWRES           0.6  2.5  2.5  2,5  2.2  0.7 11.0   0.3  145  1.5  1.5  1.3  0.4  6.5
D. NAINTEIMNEE                                   -  0.4  0.8  1.2  1.3  1.4  5.1          -  0.2  0,5  0.7  0.9  0.8  3.0
Total RECORENT COSTS                               0.6  2.9  3.3  3.7  3.5  2.1  16.1   0.3  1.7  1.9  2.2  2.1  1.2  9.4             |
Total PIWJECT COSTS                                 8.4 22.0 26.4 21.2  9.9  3.8 91.8   4.9 12.9 15.5 12.5  5.8  2.3 54.0                _
=    _--   =  ---=------ -  a=-          - --_----- --     =     ===    _
Note:- Some totals do not add up due to rounding.



_ 53 _Table 4
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITMTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PRO.JEC
Estimated Allocation of Project ExDenditure by Resoonsible Unit
(Rp billion, excluding contingencies)
Allocation by resgonsibilitv
Central MPW
Component/category (all                           [Bureas (B.),
categories unless specified)    PMU                 Centers, etc.]        Provinces
Staff Development
Personnel Systems                                  4.36(B.Personnel)
Strengtheei KANWKL and Dinas
Consultants                  0.57(monitoring)   1.00(B.Personnel:    1.50
org/staffing/
procedures)
Staff transfer                                   2.38
other incremental costs                                                0.12
Imolementation and Trainingx
Physical resources                               2.43(PUSDIKLAT/
DIKLATs)
Consultants                                      6.21
Training (overseas)                              0.75
Training (domestic)                              2.49                  2.00(part travel &
subsistence)
Incremental costs                                2.00
Mana2ement Improvement
MIS                                                6.92(PUSDATA)
Coordination of planning                           5.72(B.Planning)
Foreign aid administration                         0.83(B.Foreign
Aid Admin.)
Financial management                               2.07(B.Finance)
Control and audit                                  1.95(Inspect.Gen.)
Procurement                                        1.46(B.Logistics)
Legal functions                                    0.96(B.Legal Aff.)
Library/public information                         2.87 (B. Gen. Affairs)
Oualitv Control
Physical resources                                 9.20                  8.7
Consultants                                        0.38
Training                                                                 0.71
Incremental/maintenance                                                  3.79
Proiect Management               2.31                1.40                  0.90
Total  2.88              55.38                 1Z.72~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



AMiN-X12.
- 54 -                             Page 1 of 3
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Project-Related Incremental Costs
A. Introduction
Project-related operating costs are those supporting costs included
in the Government's development budget (DIP) which are related directly to
project activities.  Costs do not include salaries, international travel, liv-
ing costs of consultants at base, and project support costs of consultants and
fellowships which are included normally in the contracts for services, and
also exclude regular salaries of ministry staff and fees and subsistence for
staff training in formal courses.
B. Estimate of Base Costs
STAFF AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                        RD mln
Improve Personnel Systems
Honoraria for staff (2,000 mm @ Rp 50,000)                                 100
Travel and subsistence (av. 22 trit, per province @ Rp 425,000)           250
Consumables, reproduction, supplies                                       150
Total                                                               500
Strengthen Kanwil and Dinas
Honoraria for staff (1,200 mm @ Rp 25,000)                                 60
Travel and subsistence (av. 54 trips @ Rp 50,000)                          23
Consumables, supplies, etc.                                                15
MPW staff relocation (648 staff x Rp 3.68 million)                      2,384
-  Total.                                                         2,482
Develog and Implement Training Program
Honoraria for technical specialists and staff
(400 x 250,000 mm + 2,000 x Rp 50,000)                                  156
Travel and subsistence (466 @ Rp 429,000)                                 200
Training evaluation and monitoring
Workshops, materials, lecture notes, supplies (6 x 77 milion)         1,655
Total



-55 -
Page 2 of 3
IMPROVEMENT OF MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS                                          Rp ml
Management Information System
Honoraria for staff (2,500 mm x Rp 50,000)                                 125
Travel and subsistence (128 trips @ Rp 425,000)                             54
Consumables, supplies, etc.                                                807
Total                                                               986
Coordination of Planning and Programming
Honoraria for staff (5,184 mm @ Rp 50,000)                                 259
Travel and subsistence (128 trips @ Rp 425,000)                             54
Consumables, supplies, etc., printing                                      121
Total                                                               434
Strengthen Foreign Aid Collaboration
Honoraria for staff (600 mm @ Rp 50,000)                                    30
Travel and subsistence (16 trips @ Rp 425,000)                               6
Consumables, supplies, etc.                                                 15
Total                                                                51
Strengthen Financial Management
Honoraria for staff (240 mm @ Rp 50,000)                                   47
Travel and subsistence (162 trips @ Rp 425,000)                             69
Consumables, supplies, etc.                                                 20
Total                                                               136
Imirove Control and Audit
Honoraria for staff (620 mm @ Rp 50,000)                                    31
Travel and subsistence (80 trips @ Rp 425,000)                              34
Consumables, supplies, etc.                                                20
Total                                                                85
ImRrove Procurement
Honoraria for staff (1,720 mm @ Rp 50,000)                                  86
Travel and subsistence (150 trips @ Rp 425,000)                            64
Consumables, supplies, etc.                                                20
Total                                                               170
Improve Legal Function
Honoraria for staff (620 mm @ Rp 50,000)                                   31
Travel and subsistence (80 trips @ Rp 425,000)                             34
Consumables, supplies, etc.                                                20
Total                                                                85



ANNEX 12
-56 -                               Page 3 of 3
Upgrade Library. Public Information
Honoraria for staff (3,380 mm @ Rp 50,000)                                169
Travel and subsistence (80 trips @ 425,000)                                34
Consumables, supplies, printing                                           350
Total                                                               553
IMPROVE OUALITY CONTROL OF CONSTRUCTION
Project-related incremental costs to be recovered through fees
Maintenance of facilities and equipment (Rp 31 million p.a.
for each laboratory)                                                    3.793
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
Honoraria for staff (1,200 mm @ Rp 50,000)                                   60
Travel and subsistence (2,160 trips @ Rp 425,000)                           918
Consumables, supplies, etc.                                                 157
Total                                                            1.135
C. Financing of Project-Related Incremental Costs
Total project-related incremental costs including maintenance of
facilities provided by the project total US$9.0 million, including price
contingencies. Of this total, GOI would finance 100% honoraria (estimated at
US$0.8 million) and 34% (US$2.8 million) of the remainder, with the Bank
financing the remaining US$5.4 million. Table 1 below shows the loan
financing plan and the annual declinizig basis.  The loan finance will be
cumulative but disbursement percentage will apply only for a 2-month grace
period after the close of each fiscal year.
Table 1: LOAN FINANCING PLAN OF INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
(excluding honoraria)
GOI fiscal year
1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  Total
IBRD US$ million      0.3      1.3      1.2       1.2      1.0       0.4     5.4
IBRD share (%)        100       95       75        65       60        33



-57  -IIIEI 13
IKDNUCISA
PUBLIC VMS INSTITUTIUNAL DEVELOPIIENT LID TRAINING PMlIECT
Sunmry of Consultant Services by Ter 119891O-1994195
(staff -nthl
Domstic Consultants                                      International Consultants
Project Conponent                       1989/90 1990191 1991192 1992/93 1993/94 1994195 Total    1989/9  IM1/91 191/92 I"2193 193/94 1994195  Total
---     --       ----------                     ----     ----     ----------  ....--.------     -- - ---       ----.
Staff and Institutional Develoneimt (1)
Staff planning and career develoisfntat
-lanpouer plmnning                          o       12      12      12        8       0      49         6       12      12        6       0        0      36
-Functional jobljob analysis                0      24       24      12        0       0     t0          0       12      12        0       0        0      24
-Career developnent/personndl info          0       12      12      12        0       0      36         0       12       6        0       0        0      18
and appraisal system
Strengthening KAINIL and Dinas &            70      92       52      52       32      12    300         10       22      12       12       2        2      t0
Development L implementation of
training programs
Training mnageent:
-Organization I management training         0       8       12      12        8       0      36         8       12      12       12       6        0      48
-Evaluation   cost analysils                0       6       12       8        0       0      24         0       12      12        0       0       0       24
-Training information systes                0       12      12      12        0       0      38         6       12      12        8       0       0       36
Training specialistst
-Nanagemint                                 0       8        2       8        0       0     24          8       12      12        0       0       0       30
-Other                                      0        8      12      12        0       0      30         0       12      1o       12      12        0      54
Nobile  nd distance training                0       8       12      12        0       0     30          0        8      12       12       8       0       36
Subtotal for (IJ                 76      172     172      148      44       12    624         34     124      120      80      26        2     38t
Iprovennt of flanagoent Systems
and Procedures (11)
anaogmnt information system                  4       7       10       0        0       0      21         4       17      18        6       t       t       57
iocrdination of planning h programing    13          50      44      44       32      27    210          S       30      35       30     1l        12     131
Foreign aid collaboration                    0       0        0       0        0       0       0         4       14      13        0       0       0       31
Financial management                         9      29       29      27       27       0    120          4       14      14        a       2        0      42
Control and audit                            6      20       20      10        4       0      60         0       20      24        S       0        0      52
Procurement                                  4       15      IS       2        0       0      36         3        9       0        0       0        0      12
Legal function                               0      24       24      12        0       0      80         0        8       t        0       0       0       12
Library, archives & public inforeation       8       12      12       8        0       0      38         0        0       0        0       0        0       0
Subtotal for 11)                 42      158     154      101      t3       27    543        23      110      110      52      24      1I      337
Improvement of Quality Control of
Construction (111)
12      19      19       19       4        0     70          0       0        0       0       0        0       0
Project lmplementation (IV)
12      42      42       42      30       12    190          6      25      27       25      15       10     109
TOTAL                           142      398     388      309     141       51   1417        83      259     257      137      65       30     911
33333                          3333    3333    3333      333     333mss  =  33*  33333      333     "a3s   3a3s   wa3s        33s    *33      33rt
- __  - -_  -_  __ -_    __            -_   - _ - __   - _ _   -_           -     -_  -   --         __ - -         __ -- -  -        _------
la Includes 80 staff-oonths of domestic and 20 staff-months of international consultant services for assistance in the preparation of a proposed
local government institutional and manpower development project.



-58 -                          ANNEX 14
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Documents Related to the Sector
Al   Indonesia:  Management Development, World Bank Report No. 4965-IND,
May 1985.
A2   Indonesia:  Statistical Yearbook, Ministry of Public Works, 1986.
A3   Indonesia:  Government Regulation 1411987 on Transfer of Certain
Public Works Responsibilities to Provinces (Translation in English).
A4   Indonesia:  Government Regulation 6/88 on Responsibilities of
Provincial and Central Governments for Public Programs.
A5   Indonesia:  Urban Public Works Institutional DeveloDment, ADB Terms
of Reference for Formulating an Investment Project, April 1988.
B. Documents Related to the Project
BI   Indonesia:  Inventory of KANWIL Facilities and Staff, Internal
Ministry of Public Works Report, May 1987.
B2   Indonesia:  Inventory of Provincial Laboratories and Staffing,
Internal Ministry of Public Works Report, March 1988.
B3   Indonesia:  Ministry of Public Works:  Project Preparation Report,
February 1988.
B4   Indonesia:  Draft Management Plan for Sulawesi Water Development
Proiect, CIDA, November 1988.
C. Working Papers
Cl   Detailed cost tables by component.
C2   Outline terms of reference for project components.
C3   Package of reports emanating from MPW Manpower Development Project.
C4   Detailed project implementation plan and program of work for the
period up to December 1990.



THAILAND         to5°                          1100                           1i6°                         1iO°                           128                           *30°                            I N D 0 N E ¢ I A                  IBRD 214
P#da Aceh                      N                                                                                                                                                                                           PUBLIC WORKS INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT   5c
PHIUPPINES                                                              AND TRAINING PROJECT
Central MPW - All Components
13                         MALAYSIA                                                                 BRUNEI                                                                                                                                         StafX -n s-'tihutloPW AIeICr opona     I
a.ndndl    gement.ontrol and Audit
Medan                                       ,t,nnaotion Systems and Cordinoaton af Planning
.s            .                                                                                         /                                                                         _/17                                                      Quolity Control df CrnstrutldtoQ
12                                !                                           MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                         0    Province Hrodquorters
,. -.SINGAPORE                       -x               r  n..    .f              17                                          Mr ott8?   -                                                                  Province ndories
P                                                                                                                                                                         'iu  *  HALMAHERA                       -*-  Internafional Boundaries              0o
-l~~~1
9                                  Pontianak(*          KALI            AN        AN           (            .: a                                                       .n|  
Pedang                10                                             14                                                                                                                   (
PaIu                                      25
e   Jamb   _~  8 NGKA                                  0* 15/08                                                                                                                    N-     2'-
1D.K.L. JAKARTA                                                                                                                             20R alnkrae\SUILAWESI
2  JAWA BA RAT                                  P=mbang                                                                                        0 /                            \a_,rIAz;
3  JAWA TENGAH                               8-.BLTN7                                                                                                                                                                                                        IRIAN  JAVA               
4  0.l. YOGYAKARTA                                                       a 8EUTVNGJ                          .   *IO6    ,                                                                           * 21E    
5JAWATIMUR                Begul                                       -.Snlarm nal                                        -'UdAbf
6  LAMPUNG                                                                                                                                                   s*o.,ar                        BURU                                                                              '    -6
7  BENGKULU                                                                             \                                                                            -,
8  SUMATERA SELATAN                                                                                                                                             ,
90 JAM81                                       Tanjurearang                                                                      UJunMfWalndla,rn.              ,,\
10  iAMBI                                                      *1-k
11 SUMATERABARAT                                               *       A                                                                                                                  1r   3  a   e a
12  SUMATERA UTARA                                             U A,RTA                                                                                                                                                                          e                                      I
13  DIACEH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N
14  KALIMANTAN BARAT                                                                 3                 MADURA
15  KALIMANTAN TENGAH                                              Banm      )                                                                                                                                                                                           NU R
16  KALIMANTAN SELATAN                                                         S                                                                                                                                                                                   ./aranjp
17  KALIMANTANTIMUR                                                      JA  WA       _            OSurabaya
18  SULAWESI TENGAH                                               25                                             /ALI             SW8AWA                   FLORES                                                                                                  /7                   !
19  SULAWESI UTARA                                                          Yogyaka                              / r                                      .
20  SULAWESI SELATAN                                                                  4. I\ .6r m9                                                       - , FLORES
21  SULAWESI TENGGARA                                                 * -.I
23 NUSALTENGARABARAT                                           '2                                                                                                            _.. i    -    TIUOR                          0       100      200      300      400      500                 100
USA TENGGARA BARAT                                                                  23~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  I         I                    
24 NUSATENGGARATIMUR
25 MALUKU                            T  kruWx dbOV    by ThOe bWS"B¢* ft   , SI.ca'WI0 Of                                                                  24          Kupan         27MILES
26  I RIAN JAYA                        mneds eWo a   'r, OtemWf  Ofs tOew Or* 0*  ,renmtr                                                     S0JA         2*                        2                                         100  200  300  400  800  800  700  800
2 7 TIMO RTIMURP                     F.CwmCopwata, Th aawoaeoadS.nnt6dOn0 rs a olt________________
04W' o Ve pot of the Vfd SW SW Afteha'P,eom0eporo(b,F 'C,tneWV                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS
a' be SIP nSkI of evfnfVo ore nno,nne,t cr ce OtItOne OF le' On
1G00                           10S°                            1100                            1180                           120e                            12B'                            130I                           1380                            1400
FEBRUARY 1989



