                   SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
                        -
                -



                                              EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


                   1. LEGAL CONSIDERATION,OBJECTIVES, CONTENT, METHODOLOGY
                   AND IMPLEMENTATIONOF ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT FOR THE
                   PROJECT

                   1.1.   Project's Brief Description

                   1.1.1. Overview of the Project

                   1. The Second Rural Finance Project (Credit No. 3648-VN, hereinafter referred to
                   as the SRFP or the Project) with a total value of US$ 200 million equivalent
                   financed by the World Bank (WB) aims to assist the Government of Vietnam
                   (GOV) in its effort to develop the rural economy and improve living conditions in
                   rural areas. The Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV) is the
                   project owner. The project includes 2 components:

                   (a) Credit Component (Component A) with 2 sub-components: (i) Rural
                       Development Fund I1 (RDF 11) of 165.7 mil USD and (ii) Microfinance Loan
                       Fund (MLF) of 24 mil USD.

                   (b) Institutional Strengthening Component (Component B) used for supporting the
                       activities in strengthening the Bank for Investment and Development of
                       Vietnam (BIDV) and the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs). The budget
                       for the Component B is 10.3mil USD.

                   1.1.2. Project Implementation

                   2. As of the end December 2006, 22 PFIs have been selected, in which 22 PFIs
                   participated in RDF I1 and 8 PFIs in MLF. A credit of 193.3 mil USD equivalent
                   has been disbursed.

                   (a) Credit Component (component A)

                   3. The amount disbursed under RDF I1 is 2,557 billion VND equivalent to USD 160
                   mil. The cumulative subprojects under RDF I1 reached 126,202 with total
                   investment cost of VND 6,330 billion (USD 395 mil.). The average RDF I1
                   subproject size is VND 54.1 mil. (USD3,375).

                   4. The amount disbursed under MLF is 384 billion VND, equal to 100%total credit
                   of the Fund (USD 24 mil). The MLF has financed for 120,245 subprojects with the
                   total investment cost of 1,068billion VND. The average MLF subproject size is 8.9
                   mil VND (USD 556).

   IT==-           (b) Component B
          --- -3
               i   5. As of the end Quarter IVl2006 the total fund disbursed under Component B is
                   USD 6,849,018, accounting for 66.5% of the total budget of the Component.

                   I.1.3. Requirements on Environmental Protection
                   6. Environmental safeguards during project implementation are required by the
                   WB. They have been given a particular attention by BIDV, Participating Financial
                   Institutions (PFIs) and subprojects owners during the implementation of the project.
                   At the project mid-term review in October 2006, concerned parties recognized
                   efforts taken so far but also pointed out the need for a systematic assessment of the
                   project env~ronmentalimpact and the efficiency of the environmental management.

:b:
i  ---      !I
        - I        -
                   Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)       1

SRFP - Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                    July 200 7


7. The SRFP should abide by not only the Laws and guidelines of Vietnam in
environmental protection but also the WB's Safeguard Policies. According to the
WB's Guideline this project is classified as FI Category (Financial Intermediary
Assessment).

8. To systematically assess the environmental impacts of the project the Vietnam
Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI                   - hereafter: the
Consultant) has been selected by BIDV to conduct a service for Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) for the selected subprojects. This task has been started
from Mid March 2007.

1.2.    Objectives of EnvironmentalAssessment for Subprojects and the PFIs

9. The objectives of this service in EIA are:

(i)    Evaluation of the compliance of BIDV, PFIs               and subprojects with the
       Environmental Guidelines;

(ii) Clear identification and assessment of the environmental impacts created by
       the selected subprojects with consideration of regions and economic sectors;

(iii) Recommendation of measures for Environmental Safeguards implementation
       and mitigation measures for subprojects in specific sectors;

(iv) Recommendation of measures for environmental guidelines for BIDV and
       PFIs in the future.

1.3.    Scope of work for the Environmental Consultant
10.     As described in the Terms of Reference (TOR) for the Service in
Environmental Impact Assessment, the scope of work for Consultant is determined
as follows:

(i). Carry out a survey and assess the environmental impacts of 500 high - and
     medium    -  risk sub-projects to be randomly selected from the existing loan
     portfolio of the SRFP; identify environmental risk factors; and base on these to
     provide the overall assessment of accumulated environmental impacts of the
      projects;

(ii). Assess the individual impact of visiting subprojects, review its applied
      mitigation measures, based on these to evaluate the efficiencies in terms of
      mitigating environmental impacts, the environmental risk as result of individual
      and cumulative environmental impacts;

(iii). Based on the field findings, lessons taken and challenges facing, the
      consultant will make specific suggestions for the PMU and PFIs (different level
      of actions) as how best they should carry out the environmental compliance
      when financing the subprojects, prepare the specific "what to do" and "how to
      do'' roadmap.

(iv).Assist the PMU in holding a workshop with representatives fiom concerned
      parties to discuss the findings and recommendations of the environmental
      impact assessment and then reflect their comments and suggestions in the final
      report.

1.4.    Legal Background of Environmental Assessment for the Project



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              2

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                         July 2007


11.    In this EIA the Vietnamese laws, guidelines related to environmental
protection and the WB's Safeguard Policies are applied.

1.5.   Study Area and Activities in EIA

1.5.1. Study Area

12.    Study area in this EIA includes seven (7) ecological-economic regions in all 3
zones (North, Centre and South) of Vietnam. In fact, in this study 2 regions of
Central Highland and South Central regions are combined into one Region.
Therefore, number of study regions is 6.

1.5.2. Activities in EIA study and EZA Report Preparation

13.    The Consultant has conducted the following activities:

(i)   Reviewed all documents related to the project;

(ii) Classified the subprojects according to the level of environmental risk,
      selected 521 subprojects of "high risk" and "medium risk" (in which 111
      subprojects are of "high risk") in the over 100,000 subprojects in the SOEs
      submitted by 22 PFIs. Subproject selection was done by a systematic random
      sampling. Necessary assessment and survey tools were developed, and needed
      procedures for field trip were prepared;

(iii) Conducted field surveys at 521 selected subprojects to on-site assess the
      potential environmental impact and measures in impact mitigation and
      conduct interviews with subproject owners and 135 credit officers of over 100
      branches of 21 PFIs on environmental issues;

(iv) Handled datalinformation obtained from the field surveys;

(v)   Prepared 6 regional EIA reports and a consolidated EIA report for the project;
      organization of internal discussion as well as the workshop with concerned
      parties to obtain comments on the EIA report.

1.6.    Study Method and Subproject Selection Procedure

1.6.1. Study methods

14.    The following methods were used in this EIA
-    Systematic Random Sampling
-    Classification of the selected subprojects: according to ecological     - economic
     regions and economic sectors.
-    Field surveys and on-site impact assessment by filling the designed
     questionnaires for subproject owners and credit officers and by observation on
     the state of the environment at each subproject site.
-    Data handling: all filled questionnaire sheets were analyzed by the
     environmentalists who have adequate knowledge and experience in                 EIA,
     assessment results were consolidated by a computer software.
-    All collected and handled data were used for preparation of EIA reports for
     each region (6 regions) and then consolidated into an EIA report for the whole
     Project.

1.6.2. Subproject selection criteria and results

a. Selection principles


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            3

-   The assessment shall be carried out to subprojects under RDF I1 only.
-   Subprojects shall be selected by the systematic random sampling method from
    the SOEs submitted by PFIs. The selected subprojects shall reflect the true
    picture of the disbursement portfolio in terms of (i) geographical locations of
    subprojects (with the representatives for 3 zones: North, Centre and South), (ii)
    PFIs' disbursement portfolio, (iii) economic sectors financed under the SRFP,
    (iv) sub loan sizes and (v) all the subprojects with the SRFP loans of more than
    USD 50,000.
-   As per the requirements in the TOR, 500 subprojects (in fact 521 subprojects)
    were selected for field survey including 100 subprojects (in fact 111
    subprojects) in the list of economic sectors having high environmental risk and
    410 subprojects having medium environmental risk.

b. Subproject classiJicationand selection

15.   Based on the disbursement portfolio and sub loan size under the SRFP, no
subproject is classified as Category A which is the category having "high risk"
pursuant to criteria set by Vietnam and WB. In this study, therefore, the
classification of subprojects as environmentally "high risk" or "medium risk" refers
to only the comparison between subprojects assessed and is determined based on
subprojects' economic sectors with high possibility of pollution and subproject's
locations in the regions of environmental hot spot or with the possibility of negative
impact on the natural habitats. The concept of "high risk" and "medium risk" in the
Project shall not refer to "high risk" and "medium risk" under WB's category.
    -  Subprojects under economic sectors having potential pollution: might be
       classified as "high risk" or "medium risk" depending on the scale of impact.

The subprojects that have both factors as follows are selected:

(i)  Business or production in the high pollution potential sectors: production of
     construction materials (brisk, ceramic, cement...); chemicals (rubber, plastic,
     paint, fundamental chemicals etc); animal husbandry (pigs, cows, chickens);
     food processing (fish sauce, shrimp, fish processing, candy, sugar production):
     The pollution caused by these economic sectors may create bad affects on
     human's health and animal's life (criteria on the potential environmental
     pollution).

(Subprojects in sectors listed in "Class$cation of subprojects under environmental
risks" proposed by TCIII are also referred to).

(ii) Subprojects of criterion (i) but locating in a densely populated area: a province
     with population density of over 300 inhabitants/km2 or a town or district with
     pollution density of over 1,000 inhabitants/km2. This is an important factor to
     assess the potential pollution created by the subprojects to the water, soil, air
     environment and public health (criteria "environmental hot spot" in TOR).
    -  Subprojects in the regions with potential impacts on the natural habitats:
        might be classified as "high risk" or "medium risk" depending the scale of
        impact.

The subprojects with 2 following factors are selected:



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)        4

SRFP - Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007


(i)  Location in a buffer or core zone of a natural reserve, National Park or coastal
     mangrove forest area of high biodiversity (criteria "natural habitat" in TOR):
     any scale.

(ii) Obvious damage on the natural ecosystems: destruction of 2100 ha of forests;
     dredge of a canal of 2 5,00Om, construction of reservoir, exploitation of
     ground water, and mineral resources, enlargement of coastal line into the sea
     etc.: any scale.

c. Results of subproject selection

16.    521 subprojects in over 100,000 subprojects in SOE of the 22 PFIs have
selected for on-site environmental assessment. Based on the above-mentioned
criteria, 111 subprojects in the selected subprojects were identified as "high risk"
ones. The selected subprojects have an average loan size of USD 10,000. All of the
subprojects with the SRFP loans of over USD 50,000 were selected. The results of
subproject selection indicate that the selected subprojects well represent for all
economic sectors financed by the SRFP (7 sectors) and geographic regions (27
provinces in 6 regions of 3 zones in Vietnam) and they also well represent for the
PFIs (21122 PFIs). Therefore, environmental audit for these subprojects may give
general evaluation on the environmental impacts and environmental management of
the Project.

Results of subproject selection by economic sectors and PFIs is given in Table I.

1.7.   Levels of environmental impacts

17.    In this study, assessment of the potential environmental impacts is based on
the guideline of the WB. The levels of impacts are divided into 5 classes: (i) major
impacts; (ii) medium (intermediate) impacts; (iii) small (minor) impacts; (iv) no
impact and (v) unknown impact. In fact, from the results of on-site assessment
there is no subproject in the visited 521 subprojects causing major impact.
Therefore, only 4 levels of environmental impacts (medium, small, no-impact and
unknown impact) are considered and assessed.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           5

        SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
              -                                                                           July 2007


                                               Table 1: Results of subprojectselection by economic sectors and PFIs
                                                                                                                ,-Lumber             1 :        1
                                                          Number of the subprojects to be visited                                       i ~ f ~
            PFIs                                             Economic sector                                                    of
                                                                                                                         subprojects
                           Fishery Live- Agricul Industry Food                  Trade Construction Other         Percent-
                                                                                                                         under SRFP
                                     stock -ture         -small      process           -transport                age
                                                         industry -ing

 1   Agribank (VBARD)           86       81         31         27             6      17          21         269    51.63     91,690      72.65
                                                                                  -
                                       -                                                           -


2    EAB Bank                    4        3           1          7            1      2                       18     3.45       1,92 1     1.52
                                                                                - -


3    Kien-Long Bank                                                                                                              390      0.3 1
                                                                                       -


4    Oriental Bank                8       3           1          1                   1                       14     2.69      4,836       3.83

 5   Techcornbank                         1                      3                   1            1            6    1.15         338      0.27

 6   Nam-A Bank                   1       5                      1            1      1                         9    1.73         258      0.20

 7   Dai-A Bank                   3      10                      5            2                              20     3.84         347      0.27

 8   Military Bank                1       2                      3            1      1            1            9    1.73         182      0.14
                                                                                                                           -
     --


 9   Saigonbank                   1                              5            4      4                       14     2.69         775      0.61

n ~ a b u b a n k                                                9                                             9    1.73         363      0.29
                                   -
11   Southern Bank                6                                           1       I                        8    1.54      2,151       1.70

12   Saigon-Hanoi Bank            2       3           1          3            2      4                       15     2.88         142      0.11

13   VIB Bank                     2       1                      3             1                               7    1.34         265      0.21

14   Western Bank                 4                   6          2                   3                       15     2.88         533      0.44
      --


15   Sacombank                    2       9                      8                   4                       23     4.41       6,280      4.98

16   People's Credit Fund         7       2           1        22                    2                       34     6.53         494      0.39

17   ACB Bank                             1                      8                    1                      10     1.92      4,911       3.89

18   MHB Bank                    11       5           1                              3                       20     3.84       9.829      7.79


        Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                            6

         SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
              -                                                                               July 2007


19 VP Bank
    1                                  4 1      1 1                                        2

20  1 Rach-Kien Bank            1
21 (  My-Xuyen Bank             (      6 1     4  1
  I                             /1      1         1
      Total                          148)    132)        4 3 )      108)          20 )    47

      Percentage in 521           28.41    25.34       8.25
      subproject (%)
     1Number of the                    2
      subprojects causing
      "medium impacts"

      Percentage in 521            0.38
      subprojects (%)

      Total subprojects           3,508 57,067       44,850         532       5,080    9,527
                                                                                                       "I"
      under the SRFP

      Percentage in RDF I1         2.78    45.22      35.54        0.42
      ("w
        Source: TCIII -BIDV. June 2007




                                      - - - - - - -

        Consultant: ~ i e t n i mEnvironment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                    7

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                         July 2007

                                                                                             .-
2.    BRIEF       DESCRIPTION            OF      CHARACTERISTICS              OF   THE
SUBPROJECTS AND PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

2.1. General characteristics of the selected subprojects

2.1.1. Location

18.    Due to most of the subprojects having family size, 60.65% of the total
selected subprojects are located in or closed to dense population, this portion in the
Northern Mountainous Midland records the highest of 80.63%. Number of the
subprojects located to historical, religious and cultural sites are 7.10%. Number of
the subprojects located in or closely to sensitive ecological zones (National Parks,
Reserves, mangrove forests) is 4.99%.

2.1.2. Classification of environmental risk subprojects

19.    111 subprojects are classified as "high-risk", of which 11 subprojects in the
Northern Mountainous Midland (14.41%); 35 subprojects in the Red River Delta
(31.53%); 6 subprojects in the North Central (5.41%); 19 subprojects in the South
Central (17.12%); 17 subprojects in the Southeast (15.32%) and 18 subprojects in
the Mekong River Delta (16.22%).

2.2. Cultural and Economic Characteristics of Subproject Owners

20.    Education level and economic conditions are important not only for economic
development but also for environmental management and integration of
environmental protection with economic growth. Therefore, in this study, the
Consultant took into account details of cultural and economic characteristics of
subproject owners.

21.    All sub roject owners
                k'              - borrowers are literate. The percentages of borrowers
with low (6' grade), medium (6'h-12th grade) and high (university, colleges)
education levels are 2.69%, 66.41% and 30.90% respectively.

22.    The results of investigation on the incomes of the subproject owners indicate
that most of the households have medium or high incomes comparing to the average
incomes of the local households. Most of households borrowing loans from the
project satisfy with the financial support from the project and they may pay back to
the PFIs in the required duration.

2.3. Characteristics of the PFIs

23.    All PFIs are commercial banks, which did not directly involve in
environmental consideration during banking activities before this project. All PFIs
do not have officers specialized for environmental management. This is a common
situation in Vietnam's banking system.


3. EVALUATION ON COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES
BY BIDV, PFIs AND SUBPROJECTS OWNERS

3.1. Environmental Management of BIDV

24.    To implement the LEP and Governmental Decisions, Circulars of the former
MOSTE and MONRE and to implement the WB's requirements, on March 11,
2004 BIDV issued guideline No. 1023lHD-BIDV on "Environmental Assessment
and Monitoring on the subprojects under the I" and 2ndRFP financed by the W".
On May 25, 2006 BIDV issued guideline No. 2749lHD-SGD3 on "The

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           8

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                         July 2007


implementation of Environmental Impacts and Monitoring for the subprojects under
the SRFP financed by the WB" (hereinafter referred to as "the Environmental
Guidelines") to replace the guideline No. 1023lHD-BIDV. The Environmental
guidelines give screening mechanism, procedures in environmental consideration,
requirements on compliance with the Law on Environmental Protection and the
WB's Safeguard Policies, procedures in environmental monitoring. This is the first
time in Vietnam a commercial bank integrates environmental consideration into the
lending procedure. Thanks to this effort, environmental management in this project
is greatly improved comparing to the previous similar projects although most of
subproject owners are small family businesses with limitation in technology,
finance and knowledge on environment.

25.    To conduct the above mentioned environmental laws and policies, BIDV has
set up an "Environmental Management Division" within the Transaction Center 111
(TCIII) under the Decision No. 3143lQD-TCCB2 dated October 14, 2002. This
Division is responsible for supporting various divisions of TCIII and PFIs in the
fields of environmental management.

26.    Quarterly, TCIII-BIDV (PMU) obtains and reviews environmental reports
sent by PFIs. Additionally, the PMU directly checks up environmental issues of the
large subprojects.

27.    On-site environmental monitoring is included as one of the major content of
the PMU's supervision missions which have been conducted once every month on
average.

28.    The PMU has organized 2 training courses on the environmental policies of
the Project for the Project's staffs. All PFIs accredited were trained on the
environmental assessment requirements at the orientation workshop. The PMU also
conducted training programs for key credit officers of each PFIIMFI to become
trainers who would then transfer the knowledge on environmental management to
their colleagues. So far, 150 credit offices of the PFIsMFIs have involved in that
environmental training programs.

3.2. Compliance with the Environmental Guidelines by the PFIs

29.    Over 100 branches of 21 PFIs have been checked up by the Environmental
Consultant in view of compliance with the Environmental Guidelines.

30.    80% (1081135) of the interviewed credit officers have been informed on the
"Environmental Guidelines" issued by BIDV and they understood that the
subprojects financed by the SRFP should comply with these guidelines.

31.    While providing loans to subprojects, 90% of the PFIs' branches
disseminated the environmental requirements of the BIDV and WB to the
borrowers. In many branches, credit officers disseminated these requirements right
from the moment of preparing loan applications.

32.    80% of the branches of 21 visited PFIs frequently checked up environmental
management at the subprojects. Environmental monitoring was usually combined to
banking activities of the PFIs' branches. Almost (80%) of the interviewed credit
officers were well aware on their tasks in checking up the compliance with the
Environmental Guidelines by the subprojects. However, environmental inspection is
beyond their capability.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           9

SRFP - Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                   July 2007


33.   From the obtained questionnaire sheets filled by 135 credit officers, the
following general evaluation may be given: 66.67% of the PFIs have good
compliance and 33.33% of the PFIs have fair compliance with the Environmental                 a


Guidelines. The detailed evaluation for each PFI is provided in the main EIA report.

3.3. Compliance with the Environmental Guidelines by Subproject Owners

34.   The results of the field survey show that 331/52lsubprojects (63.5%) have
good awareness of the integration of production          -  business with environmental
protection. Most of subproject owners believe that their improved awareness of
environmental protection is thanks to the SRFP. Some subprojects, though having
no concrete guidance related to environmental protection measures, have
implemented measures for mitigation of negative impacts so as not to affect
neighboring people and surrounding environment.

35.   The results of the survey prove that 327 subprojects (62.76%) are required to
have pollution control facilities. In fact, 177 subprojects (54.13%) installed
acceptable waste management systems, and 91 subprojects (27.83%) have treated
the wastes with high quality. The data show that the SRFP has effectively
contributed to environmental improvement in production units in rural areas of
Vietnam, where a large number of businesses yet to apply waste management
systems.

36.   Out of 521 subprojects investigated, 26 subprojects are located near sensitive
ecological zones: 2 subprojects are close to the Cucphuong National Park, 2 in the
Halong Bay, 18 in the wetland area in the Mekong River Delta. Nevertheless, all of
those subprojects have well done the measures for environmental protection, not
causing adverse effect on any natural reserve or sensitive ecological zone. Waste
matters from their sites are not causative of any negative impact on the biological in
situ and in the surroundings.

3.4. Lessons of Integration of Environmental Protection into Production -
Business of the subprojects

37.   To implement the WBYsrequirements, BIDV issued the guidance for
"Assessment and Monitoring of Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects jnanced
the WB". This is the first time in Vietnam commercial banks are required to
integrate environmental protection into their business. By implementing the
"Environmental Guidelines", the environmental management and protection of
subprojects have obtained evident progresses compared with production and
business that are not supported by the SRFP.

38.   Reasons of Good Environmental Protection by the Subprojects:

- Environmental       Guidelines issued by BIDV represent                  comprehensively
environmental protection policies of Vietnam and the WB.
- Thanks to the compliance with BIDV's Environmental Guidelines, PFIs'
communication of environmental protection requirements to subproject owners
helps to improve the awareness of credit officers as well as borrowers on
environmental protection.
- Propaganda of the state authorities and public movements on environmental
protection.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           10

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                         July 2007


- Increased environmental awareness of subproject owners, they learn from others'
experience and apply measures to protect the environment.

39.   However, some subprojects still create adverse environmental impacts to
some extents. Reasons for adverse environmental impacts of these subprojects are:
- Due to HR limitation, the local environmental authorities could not monitor,
inspect the environmental impacts of small and micro size subprojects .
- Limited environmental awareness of a number of subproject owners.
- Financial and technological limitation of subproject owners in meeting
requirements on pollution management.


4.  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE INVESTIGATED SUBPROJECTS

4.1. Environmental Impacts of Subprojects by Sectors

40.   The results obtained from the field surveys indicate that under the SRFP,
there is no subproject having major impact on the environment. Summary of
environmental impact assessment for the visited subprojects is given below.

4.1.1. General environmental impact assessment of subprojects by sectors

41.   From EIA (environmental audit) of 521 selected subprojects the following
evaluation may be found.

42.    The subprojects offishely sector: include 148 selected subprojects (28.4% of
the total visited subprojects), in which there are 19 fishing subprojects (12 in the
North Central Region; 7 in the South Central Region). The remaining subprojects
belong to aquaculture (fish, shrimp culture). Since there is not any subproject
located in natural reserves or mangrove forests, the fishery subprojects have no
impact on biodiversity. The main environmental problems at aquaculture farms are
dredged sediment and effluent from breeding ponds. In the visited subprojects there
are 2 subprojects (10.38%) causing medium impact on the environment, the other
146 subprojects (28.02%) having only minor impact. In short, the environmental
impacts of the visited subprojects in this sector are evaluated to be minor. None
fishery subprojects uses measures to exterminate aquatic resources.

43.    The animal husbandly sector consists of 132 selected subprojects (25.3% of
the total). They include pig, chicken, cow, goat, deer, rabbit breeding farms. Most
of animal husbandry subprojects are located in the Red River Delta, Mekong river
Delta and Northern Midland Regions. The field surveys show that 6 subprojects
(1.15%) cause medium environmental impacts and 126 subprojects (24.18%) have
only minor impacts. About 50% of the animal husbandry subprojects used proper
measures (garden - pond     -  cage - biogas models) for waste treatment. Therefore,
environmental pollution at these farms are minimized. It is also noted that some
subprojects have yet applied waste treatment systems, resulting in air, water
pollution.

44.    Agricultural sector has 43 visited subprojects (8.3% of the total). The
subprojects concentrate on cultivation of rice, industrial plants and fruit trees. Most
of them are located in the Northern Midland (27.9%), North Central (25.6%) and
Mekong River Delta (34.9%). In general, the subprojects in agriculture do not cause



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          11

SRFP - Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007

                                                                                             .
                                                                                             -
any impacts on the environment, on the contrary, some farms have made great
contribution to the natural habitat protection.

45.   Industrial and small industrial sector contains 108 surveyed subprojects
(20.7% of the total selected subprojects). They include plastic, paper recycling,
ceramic, construction material and wood production. A great number of industry
subprojects concentrates on the Red River Delta Region (51.9%). Most of them
have small scales and have some measures in environmental management,
therefore, they cause only minor impact on the surrounding environment. However,
some subprojects in paper recycling and brick production (31 subprojects, 5.95% of
the total investigated subprojects) cause medium impacts on the water and air
environment.

46.   Food Processing Sector has 20 subprojects (3.8% in the total). The
subprojects focus on processing of shrimp, fish, fish sauce and are located mainly in
the Mekong River Delta (11120 subprojects - 55%). The main environmental
problems of this sector are odor and waste pollution. 3 subprojects (0.58%) in food
processing cause medium impact on the environment and 17 subprojects (3.26%)
have minor environmental impact.

47.   Trade Sector has only 47 visited subprojects (9.0% of the total), The
subprojects in this sector mainly focus on supply of fuel and agricultural materials
and are mainly located in the Mekong River Delta (22147 subprojects - 46.8%).
These subprojects have unknown environmental impacts.

48.   Construction and Transport Sector has 23 subprojects (4.4% of the total)
visited during the field surveys. Most of them borrowed money from the project to
buy construction andlor transport facilities and are located mainly in the Northern
Midland Region (13123 subprojects - 56.5%). In fact, no negative environmental
impacts were found.

49.   In general, in 521 investigated subprojects under the SRFP, there are only
some subprojects in the industrial, animal husbandry, food processing and
aquaculture causing environmental impacts at medium level. The remaining
subprojects cause only minor impacts or no-impacts on the environment.

4.2 Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects of "High Risk" Class

50.   The obtained results of the field surveys indicate that in the 521 investigated
subprojects there are only 42 subprojects (8.06% of the total) causing environmental
impacts with "medium" level. They mainly concentrate in the Red River Delta
Region (14 subprojects) and the Mekong Delta Region (12 subprojects).

51.   In the 111 subprojects classified by the selection criteria as "high risk" there
are only 39 subprojects (35.13%) causing medium environmental impacts. The
remaining 72 subprojects cause only minor environmental impacts.

52.   The above-mentioned data show that levels of environmental impacts of a
subproject do not depend only on its type, location and scale but also on measures
in environmental management. The production units (subprojects) of high risk class
apply proper measures in pollution control and environmental protection may
minimize the impacts to acceptable levels. On the contrary, "medium risk"
subprojects (3 subprojects in this study) may cause some environmental impacts if
they do not pay much attention to environmental protection requirements.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          12

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                             July 2007




5. RECOMMENDATIONS OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (MEASURES
FOR RIITIGATION OF NEGATIVE IMPACTS AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE
ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES)

53.    Considering the assessment results of the compliance with environmental
guidelines by PFIs and subprojects (Chapter 3), EIA of subprojects (Chapter 4) as
well as lessons of significant success and some constraints in environmental
management of the SRFP project, in order to improve the integration of production
- business into environmental protection, in the future the BIDV, PFIs and
subproject owners should implement a Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
suggested in EIA Report with measures listed below (Please refer the main EIA
Report for further details).

5.1. Measures in EnvironmentalManagementfor TCIII-BIDV in the Future
54.    Within the scope of the SRFP, TCIII should conduct the following activities:

(i) Improve the capacity of Environmental Management Department

(ii) Issue new Environment Guidelines: to reflect LEP (2005) and related Decrees
issued by the Government, MORE'S Circulars to guide the implementation of LEP
as well as the WB's Safeguard Policies.

(iii) Guide PFIs on environmental management: hold environmental training for
credit officers of the PFIs.

(iv) Improve information of environmental protection to PFIs and subprojects in the
forms of leaflets, pamphlets on measures of pollution control.

(v) Enhance supervision of PFIs' and subprojects' compliance with the
"Environmental Guidelines". Apply penalty to those PFIs who do not comply with
the Guidelines.

(vi) Storage of environmental information related to the project at BIDV and PFIs.

 (vii) Increase human and financial resources for environmental management of
TCIII

5.2. Environmental Management MeasuresApplicable by PFIs in the Future

55.    The following measures are recommended to PFIs
5.2.1. Measuresfor Improving PFIs 'Capacity of Environmental Management
-   Improve capacity in environmental management of PFIs' credit officers via
training courses.

- Cooperate with concerned authorities, institutes, universities in training to improve
credit officers' knowledge on environmental management and monitoring.

5.2.2. Measures for Communication of Vietnam Laws and Regulations,
Guidelines of the WB and BIDV on Environmental Protection Applicable to
Subprojects
- Prepare information documents: guidelines, pamphlets on environmental
management measures applicable to the potential sectors of negative environmental
impacts such as: aquaculture, husbandry, industrial and small industrial, etc.



                                                                                 - -

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development~ i t i t u t e(vESDI)          13

SRFP - Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                    July 2007


- Credit officers' guidance to subproject owners: credit officers should guide
borrowers to conduct environmental procedures when preparing the loan
                                                                                               a
application.
- Set up and confirm "the Commitment in Environmental Protection": pursuant to
Vietnam' laws, subprojects shall prepare and confirm the Commitment in
Environmental Protection.
- Hold training programs for subproject owners on environmental protection
knowledge.
- Provide some incentives to subprojects for good environmental protection.

5.2.3. Measuresfor Environmental Monitoring
56.    Combining      with   banking      activities,  credit     officers   frequently  or
unscheduledly check up the state of implementation of environmental guidelines at
the borrowers. Environmental monitoring may be done by observation and on-site
assessment and consultation with local authorities or neighboring people.

5.3. Measures for Environmental Management and Pollution Control
Applicable to Subprojects Classified by Sectors

57.    The subprojects of sectors such as industrial - small industries, husbandry and
aquaculture contain high potential impacts on the environment. Therefore, the
following measures for management and control of pollution, protection of
ecological resources applicable to those sectors are recommended to BIDV and PFIs
in guiding subprojects for application: (see the main EIA report for further details).
- Comply with Vietnam's Law on Environmental Protection: BIDV, PFIs and
subproject owners shall abide by environmental regulations.

- Comply with Vietnamese Environmental Standards: subprojects should develop
and apply waste management systems, in line with Vietnam's standards.
- Apply cleaner production and waste audit: these measures are effective in
prevention of environmental pollution, reduction of wastes and reduction of
expenditures for energy and materials, particularly subprojects in industrial       - small
industry sector.

58. To mitigate the potential impacts of the subprojects by economic sectors, the
EIA report recommends some measures for each sector as follows:
- Aquaculture subprojects: control of effluent and dredged mud and prevention of
fish and shrimp diseases
- Animal husbandry subprojects: treatment of solid waste and effluent using model
of garden-pond-cage-biogas and relevant measures for odor control, disease
prevention.
- Agricultural subprojects: application of IPM and pesticide control.
- Industrial - small industry subprojects: Cleaner production, waste audit and
technical measures for treatment of waste water and air emission for paper recycling
brick production, wood production.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            14

SRFP - Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007


- Food processing subprojects: technical measures for waste treatment and odor
control.

- Tradesubprojects: measures for safety in fuel and pesticide business.

- Construction and transport subprojects: have no impacts on the environment and
hence do not need particular environmental protection measures.

5.4. Action Plan for Implementation of the Environmental Management
Program of the SRFP (related to BIDV and PFIs)

59.   In order to best implement the Environmental Management Program and to
take measures recommended for the BIDV, TCIII and PFIs when they finance the
subprojects in the future, the SRFP need to develop an Environmental Action Plan
with main items given in the main report. In the plan, actions (what to do), concrete
roadmap, how to do and the responsible persodunit are clearly defined.


CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATION

60.   During the project implementation, BIDV has well complied with the
Vietnamese Law and regulations on environmental protection and the WB's
Safeguard Policies. BIDV has issued various environmental guidelines to be applied
by PFIs and subprojects. BIDV has also conducted relevant training programs in
environmental management for the PFIs and checked up environmental
management at the PFIs.

61.   Most of the PFIs have well implemented the WB's and BIDVYs
environmental guidelines and they have frequently checked up compliance of
subprojects to the environmental guidelines.

62.   A major part of subproject owners have improved their awareness of
environmental protection thanks to the project. Many subprojects have improved the
working environment, applying good model to increase economic effectiveness in
combination with pollution control, particularly the projects of such sectors as
animal husbandry, aquaculture and some subprojects of industrial-small industrial
sector.

63.   In the total of 521 visited subprojects, there are only 42 subprojects (8.06%)
causing medium environmental impacts. Most of those belong to the industrial and
small industrial sector (paper recycling, resin recycling, brick production.. .), animal
husbandry (pig, cow) and food processing. In fact, all these entities operated before
the Project, therefore, is case of without project they may cause the similar impacts
on the environment. The integration of environmental requirements into the
borrowing conditions has increased subproject owners' concern on pollution control
and natural resource conservation. This is a reason to minimize the potential
environmental impacts of the subprojects of high-risk group.

64.    Considering of the results from environmental impact assessment on 521
subprojects under the project, it is necessary to point out that even though activities
of environmental protection and pollution control have been improved significantly
thanks to the SRFP, still many considerations exist in various subprojects of various
production sectors. Therefore, BIDV's and PFIs' environmental management
activities should be enhanced in the coming time.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          15

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                          July 2007


65.   For more effective integration of environmental protection into production -
business towards sustainable development, the EIA report has recommended for the
project    an    Environmental     Management         Program,       which   includes  an
"Environmental Action Plan" together with concrete roadmaps, what-to-do and
how-to-do for BIDV and PFIs. The Environmental Management Program of the
project also includes recommendations and guidance for subprojects to implement
their commitment of Environmental Protection with feasible measures such as self
management of the environment, pollution prevention and control, biodiversity
conservation. They are more importantly applicable in conditions of limited
technology, knowledge and finance of households in rural areas of Vietnam.

66.   The study results obtained indicate that the effectiveness of integration of
environmental consideration into production - business created by the SRFP is
outstanding. This is the first time in Vietnam, the credit provision by commercial
banks to households and enterprises in rural areas not only supports economic
development, poverty alleviation but also contributes to environmental awareness
and protection. Therefore, BIDV's implementation of further phases of the RFP is
recommended to be supported by the Government, the World Bank and concerned
bodies.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           16

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Find)                                     July 2007



                                      CHAPTER ONE

LEGAL CONSIDERATIONS, OBJECTIVES, CONTENTS, METHODOLOGY
 AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
               UNDER THE SECOND RURAL FINANCE PROJECT


1.1.    PROJECT'S BRIEF DESCRIPTION

1. The Second Rural Finance Project (Credit 3648-VN hereinafter the SRFP or the
   Project) with a total value of US$ 200 million equivalent financed by the World
   Bank (WB) aims to .assist the Government of Vietnam (GOV) in its effort to
   develop the rural economy and improve living conditions in rural areas.

2. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) of the SRFP between the Socialist
   Republic of Vietnam (S.R.V) representatives and the WB was signed on 09
    September 2002 and announced effective on 14April 2003. The SRFP is scheduled
    to be implemented for the period of 5 years. The project is operated on wholesale
   banking basis and consists of two components:

i) Credit Component comprises two sub-components: (i) Rural Development Fund I1
    (RDF 11) valued US$ 156.7 million equivalent, providing mainly medium and long
    term loans to rural investments of farm households and private rural entrepreneurs,
    (ii) Microfinance Loan Fund (MLF) valued US$ 24 million equivalent, providing
    financial resources for small investments of micro enterprises and individual poor
    people.

ii) Institutional Strengthening Component (Component B) consists of two sub-
    component~:(i) Strengthening BIDV with the objective of supporting this bank to
    enhance its capacity for successful implementation of the wholesale banking
    function and (ii) Strengthening accredited PFIs in providing their financial services
    in rural areas. Total amount allocated for this component is US$ 10.3 million
    equivalent.

3. The Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV) was assigned by
    the Government to be the project owner. In order to perform this function, BIDV
    has established and maintained a Project Management Unit (namely Transaction
    Center I11  - TCIII) within BIDV to carry out daily works relating to the project
    implementation. The proceeds of the Credit have been made available to BIDV
    under an On-lending Loan Agreement entered between Ministry of Finance on
    behalf of S.R.V, and BIDV. Finance for RDF I1 and MLF are on-lent to PFIs and
    MFIs under Subsidiary Loan Agreements between them and BIDV. PFIsINIFIswill
    then finance eligible sub-loans of households and rural entrepreneurs. Such
    financed projects under the SRFP are called "sub-projects". It should be indicated
    that the term "Sub-project" was given by the WB and BIDV. In fact, the "Sub-
    project" is identified as a production or business unit borrowing a loanfrom the
    SRFP but it is not an unit created by the SRFP. This clearance is important
    because the environmental impact (if any) caused by this unit is not only by the
    project. It may had been created even in a case of without theproject.

4. By end of 2006, there were 22 Financial Institutions accredited to participate in the
    Project, of which there were 22 institutions participating in RDF I1 and 8

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)             17

SRFP Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)
     -                                                                             July 2007

                                                                                                 -.
   institutions participating in MLF. Total credit amount disbursed under the Project
   is USD 193.3million.

(A) Credit Component:

5. The accumulated amount disbursed from the RDF I1 is VND 2,557 billion
   (equivalent to USD 160 million). The RDF I1 has financed 126,202 accumulative
   sub-projects with the total investments of VND 6,330 billion (equivalent to USD
   395 million). The average size of a sub-project under the RDF I1 is VND 54.1
   million (USD 3,375).

6. The accumulated amount disbursed under the MLF is VND 384 billion (equivalent
   to USD 24 million) accounting for 100% of the total MLF. MLF has financed
   120,245 sub-projects. The average size of a sub-project is VND 54.1 million (USD
   556).

(B) Institutional Strengthening Component:

7. As of end Quarter IVl2006, the total amount disbursed under the Institutional
   Strengthening Component is USD 6,849,018 accounting for 66.5% of the
   component's funds.

8. Environmental safeguards have been required by WB during the implementation of
   the Project. Such issues have been given a particular attention by BIDV, PFIs and
   MFIs. At the project mid-term review in October 2006, related parties recognized
   efforts taken so far but also pointed out the need for a systematic assessment of the
   project environment impacts and the efficacy of the measures. This assessment
   represents an effort by BIDV to implement the recommendation of the mid-term
   review.

9. During implementation of the SRFP, the Project owner (BIDV), the Participating
   Financial Institutions (PFIs) and subproject owners should abide by not only the
   Vietnamese Law and Regulations on Environmental Protection but also the WB's
   Safeguard Policies. According to the WB's Environmental category classification,
   the SRFP is of FI category (Financial Intermediary Assessment). The project of F
   category should need Detailed Environmental Assessment; Initial Environmental
   Assessment or no Environmental Assessment, depending on the project's nature.

10.To abide by the Law on Environmental Protection (LEP), Decisions of the
   Government of Vietnam, Circulars of the former Ministry of Science, Technology
   and Environment (MOSTE) and the Ministry of Natural Resources and
   Environment (MONRE) and the requirements of the WE3 in environmental
   management, BIDV has issued the guidelines No. 1023lHD                - BIDV dated March
   11, 2004 on "Assessment and Supervision of Environmental Impacts of the Sub-
  projects borrowed funds from the Rural Finance Projects I and 11funded by the
   World Bank". On May 25, 2006 BIDV has issued the guideline No. 2749lHD                   -
   SGD3 on "Assessment and Monitoring of Environmental Impacts of the
   Subprojects under the SRFP Funded by the World Bank" (hereafters: the
   Environmental Guidelines). This is the first time in Vietnam a commercial bank
   integrating environmental considerations into banking operations. Thanks to this
   effort, environment protection during the implementation of the SRFP has been
   significantly improved comparing to similar projects, although a large proportion
   of sub-project owners are small scaled production households having limited

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              18

SRFP - Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                       July 2007


    financial, technological resources and environmental knowledge. The main
    environmental impacts and measures to mitigate found by the Independent
    Environmental Consultant during the field surveys in over 500 subprojects are
    clearly identified in this Environmental Impact Assessment Report.

1.2. OBJECTIVESOFTHE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT(EIA)

11.As required by the WB, the Transaction Center I11 (TC 111) of BIDV has selected a
    qualified environmental         consulting firm         "to conduct an assessment         of
    environmental impacts of subprojects financed by the SRFP"*). The objective of
    this ETA is to "to support BIDV in its efforts to improve the Project implementation
    process in terms of environment under Vietnamese related regulations and WB 's
    Environment Safeguard Policies" (quoted from the Request for Expression of
    Interest of BIDV sent to environmental consulting firms, Dec 2006)

12.With appropriate capacity and experiences and with a proper Technical Proposal in
    March 2007 the Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute
    (VESDI) has been selected to be a Consultant conducting the EIA for this project
    (March 2007).

13.The objectives of this EIA are:

i) Clear identification and assessment of the environmental impacts during the
    implementation of financed subprojects with consideration of regions and
    economic sectors;

ii) Evaluation of compliance of the PFIs to the Environmental Guidelines and BIDV's
    management in environmental issues;

iii) Evaluation of compliance of subprojects owners to the Environmental Guidelines;

iv) Proposal of measures in implementation of the Environmental Guidelines and
    mitigation of the adverse impacts caused by funded sub-projects;

v) Proposal of measures in implementation of the Environmental Guidelines for the
    BIDV and PFIs in the future

1.3.     SCOPE OF WORK FOR THE ENVIRONMENTALCONSULTANT


                                                                                            Note:
(1) It is necessary to indicate that this study is not a real "EnvironmentalImpact Assessment
(EIA)" in accordanceto the Vietnamese Law on Environmental Protection and WB's 0.P
4.01, due to EIA are works for prediction of the potential impacts and proposal of mitigation
measures for the future of proposed projects while the SRFP has been implementing and all
subprojects are under operation. However, to meet the requirement in the TOR (Box) this
study focused mainly on supervision and assessment of environmental impacts caused by the
selected existing subprojects.This is similarto the "EnvironmentalAudit", what has been
determined by the WB representatives in a meeting between TCIII, VESDI and WB officers
in February 2007 in Hanoi
(2) The environmentalimpacts made by subprojects are not only caused by the fund from the
SRFP as the most part of these businesses have been operated before asking for the Project
fund. Besides, the subprojectowners also seek for other financing sources rather than the fund
from the SRFP. Accordingly,the environmentalissues of subprojects (if any) are caused by
many reasons. However in fact we cannot distinguish the environmental impactsmade by
each fund in a subproject.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                 19

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                       July 200 7


14.According to the Term of Reference (TOR) set by BIDV and WE3 (Appendix I.I.),                  ..

    the Scope of work for the Consultant is determined in Box I.I and detailed contents
    of a service in EIA for the project are shown in Section 1.5.

15.The term in the TOR is "Assess environmental impacts in subprojects funded by
    the SRFP", however in our opinion, the consultant's tasks are to supervise,
    examine and conduct environmental audit in subprojects. The legal basis for
    environmental impact assessment is summarized in Section 1.4.

       Box 1.1: Consultant's Scope of Work (quoted in the TOR, Annex 1.1)

         I . Carry out a survey and assess the environmental impacts of 500
            high - and medium     - risk sub-projects to be randomly selectedfrom
            the existing loan portfolio of the SRFP; identzfjl environmental risk
            factors; and based on these to provide the overall assessment of
            accumulated environmental impacts of theprojects;

         2. Assess the individual impact of visiting subprojects, review its
            applied mitigation measures; based on these to evaluate the
            efficiencies in term of mitigating environmental impacts, the
            environmental risk as a result of individual and accumulative
            environmental impacts;

         3. Based on the field findings, lessons learned and challenges faced,
            the consultants will make specific suggestions for TCIII and PFIs
             (different levels of actions) as how best they should carry out the
            environmental      compliance       when financing         the  subprojects,
            preparing the speczfic "what to do" and "howto do" roadmap.

         4. Assist the PMU in holding a workshop with representatives from
             related parties to discuss thefindings and recommendations of the
            environmental impact assessment and then reflects their comments
            and suggestions in thefinal report.

         Source: BID V S TORfor environmental consulting service, Annex I.I

1.4. LEGAL BASIS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT FOR THE
      PROJECT

1.4.1. WB's Safeguard Policies

16.The WE3's Safeguard Policies provide environmental guidelines during approving
    loans for borrowers. The main policies are mentioned bellows:
    -  OP4.01BP4.011GP4.01Environmental Assessment

    - OP 4.04 Natural Habitats
    - OP 4.09 Pest Management
    -  OPN 11.3 Cultural Properties
    -  OP 4.3616P 4.36 Forest Resources

    -  OP 4.20 Indigenous Peoples

    -  OP 7.50 International Waterways


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                20

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    July 2007


    -  OP 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement
    -  OP 4.371BP 4.37 Safeguard of Dams
    -  OP 7.50BP 7.501GP 7.50 Projects in International Waters
    -  OP 7.601BP 7.601GP 7.60 Projects in Disputed Area

17.According to the Project Appraisal Document of the SRFP (May 2002), in all
    above mentioned policies in this project only policies of OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01
    (Environmental Assessment) are required.

1.4.2. Vietnamese Legal Basis on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)

18.Before July 1, 2006 the Law on Environmental Protection passed by the National
    Assembly on December 27, 2003 and issued by the Order of the President on
    January 01, 1994 was the official legal document on environmental management
    and natural resource protection (hereinafter: LEP 1994). The Governmental
    Decision No. 1751CP dated October 18, 1994 on "Guidelines in implementation of
    LEP" provided detailed regulations in organization and measures for environmental
    management, in which detailed guideline for EIA is included.

19.As the SRFP has been commenced from 2003, the LEP (1993) and the
    Governmental Decision No.1751CP were legal documents applied by BIDV in the
    preparation of environmental guidelines for PFIs and subprojects in environmental
    management.

20.At the moment, the implementation of EIAs in projects in Vietnam needs to
    comply with the following legal procedures:

Law on Environment Protection: The new LEP was issued on December 12, 2005 by
an Order No.29/2005/LlCTN of the State President and enacted from July 01, 2006
(hereafter LEP 2005).

The LEP 2005 includes 15 chapters, 136 articles, in which there is a chapter for
guidelines in strategy environment assessment (SEA) (articles 14, 15, 16, 17) and
environment impact assessment (EIA) (articles 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23) and
Commitment in Environmental Protection (articles 24, 25, 26, 27).

Decree No. 80/2006/1VD-CP dated in August 9, 2006 of the Government on
"Detailedguidelines in implementation of some articles of the LEP"

This decision includes 3 chapters, 25 articles, in which 12 articles of the chapter I are
guidelines in SEA, EIA and Commitment in Environmental Protection (CEP).

Appendix I in this Decision lists the projects which should have EIA and Appendix I1
lists the interboundary projects EIA of which should be approved by MONRE.

According to Article 24 of the LEP (2005) and Appendix I of the Governmental
Decision N80/2006/ND-CP all subprojects of the SRFP should have "Commitment in
Environmental Protection" while there is not a subproject required EIA report
preparation.

Decision No. 81/2006/IVD-CP dated in August 9, 2006 of the Government on
"AdministrativePenalty in Environmental Protection "




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)             2 1

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    July 2007


This decision includes 5 chapter, 44 articles in which 9 articles are guidelines for SEA
and EIA.

Circular No. 08/2006/TT-B TNMTdated September 8, 2006 on "Guidelines in SEA,
EIA and CEP"

Section I11 of this Circular gives detailed guidelines for EIA report preparation, review
and appraisal, monitoring, confirmation of implementation of the mitigation measures
in EIA report.

21.Additionally, the following legal documents are used in this EIA:

Law on Forest Protection andDevelopment (1992, revised in 2004)

Law on Land use, approved on November 26,2003 by the National Assembly.

Law on Water Resource, approved on May 20, 1998,by the National Assembly.

Law on Natural minerals and resources, approved by the National Assembly on
March 20, 1996

22.    In this EIA all above mentioned legal documents are applied, in which the most
important ones are LEP     -   (1993), LEP (2005), Decision No.1751CP and Decision
8012006lND-CP and Circular 0812006lTT-BTNMT. LEP (1993) and Decision No.175
are still regarded a legal basis for this Project as it has been implemented before the
issuance of LEP 2005.

1.5.   STUDY AREA AND CONTENTS OF EL4

1.5.1. Study Area

23.    In this EIA study practically "environmental audit" for the SRFP the area,
where the Environmental Consultant conducted field surveys and in situ environmental
assessment, covers all 7 ecological    -  economic regions in 3 zones (Northern, Central
and Southern) of Vietnam. They are:
    -  The Northern Mountainous and Midland (NMM) Region (Northern Vietnam)
    -  The Red kver Delta (RRD) Region (Northern Vietnam)
    -  The North Central (NC) Region (Central Vietnam)
    -  The South Central (SC) Region (Central Vietnam)
    -  The Central Highland (CH) Region (Central Vietnam)
    -  The Northeast Mekong (NEM) (or East of Southern Vietnam - Bang Nam BQ
       in Vietnamese) Region (Southern Vietnam)
    -  The Mekong Delta (MD) Region (Southern Vietnam)

Locations of the seven (7) ecological-economic regions of Vietnam are shown in
Figure I.I.

24.     In fact, in this study two (2) regions of South Central (SC) and Central
Highland (CH) are combined into one Region (SC and CH Region) due to number of
the selected subprojects at each region is small. Therefore, number of the ecological -
economic regions in this study is six (6).




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            22

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    July 2007




        Figure 1.1: Location of 7 ecological - economic regions of Vietnam



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)             23

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                      July 2007

25. Because of small scale in area and production - business the area to be studied in
    environmental impacts at each subproject is limited in a distance of 20 - 500m
    from the location of the subproject.

1.5.2. Activities in EIA Study

26. To achieve the objectives given in Section 1.2, the Consultant has to implement
    the tasks in Box 1.2.

     I             Box 1.2: General process of the consultant's work
     1 To perform the above-mentioned tash, the general process for the
       consultants shall be asfollows:

         1. Conducting the desk review of the relevant project documents and
            procedures      related     (including     the    project     design   and
             implementation plan; the project disbursement portfolio classified
             by subproject sectors, geographical regions, participated PFIs; the
             GOV's environmental regulations, the WB environment safeguard
            policies and the SRFP Environmental Guidelines; disbursement and
             supervision procedures; training and capacity building programs;
             and related reports of BID V, PFIs/MFIs, the aidememoires of
             annual supervision mission jointly conducted by BIDV and the WB
             task teams).
        2. Planning and preparation:            The consultants based on their
             environmental impact knowledge and experiences shall help PMU
             tofinalize the subproject environmental risk classification, the list of
             500 high - and medium-risk subprojects to be selected based on a
             systematic random sampling method; develop the necessary
             environmental assessment and survey tools; and then make
             necessary arrangementsfor field visits with PMU's assistance. The
             method for selection of 500 subprojects is presented in Section C
             below. In this step, the subprojects' geographical location
             (environmental      hotspots,      natural    habitats,      environmental
             degradation areas etc) may be taken into account.
        3. Carrying out field          visits, including on-site assessment of
             environmental impact (EIAs) of the selected subprojects and
             undertaken environment measures and interviews with end-
             borrowers and local staffs of GOV and PFIs/MFIs responsiblefor
             environmentprotection, ifnecessary. Attention shall be drawn to the
            production and processing and farming processes; subproject size
             and capacity; input materials, chemicals and fuels used in the
            production process; water demand, water supply; disposalprocess;
             and factors related natural resource exploitation, labor safety and
            public health, the implementation of agree prevention                  and
             mitigation measures and existing deficiencies, if any.
        4. Processing information collected and reportpreparation; and
        5. Any other activity that the consultants consider necessary for
             completion of the assignment.
       Source: Adapted from the TOR (Appendix 1.1)


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              24

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    July 2007


27. During conduction of EIA the following activities were implemented:

(i)  Study on all materials related to the project provided by TC 111.

(ii) Set up methodology in systematic random sampling and apply it for selection of
     over 500 out of over 100,000 subprojects in the SOEs of 22 PFIs to be assessed in
     terms of environmental impacts.

(iii) Classify the selected subprojects into two (2) groups: environmentally high risk
     and medium risk. Number of high risk subprojects is 100 as required by the WB
     and BIDV in TOR.

(iv) Conduct field survey to provinces and districts in the 6 ecological      -  economic
     regions to interview credit officers or representatives of local branches of the
     PFIs to evaluate their compliance to the WB and BIDV's Environmental
     Guidelines.

(v) Conduct field survey over 500 selected subprojects in the 6 ecological                -
     economic regions to assess on site environmental impacts caused by their
      activities.

(vi) Fill and handle 3 samples (forms) of questionnaires (1 form for credit oficers of
     PFIs branches, 1 for subproject owners and 1 for consultant's investigator
     (member of field survey team) to get sufficient information for:
  -   Environmental impacts of the selected subprojects by economic sectors and
      regions
  -   Efficiency of environmental protection and compliance with environmental
      guidelines made by the subprojects
  -   Compliance with environmental guidelines of PFIs
  -   Lessons learned from environmental management of the SRFP

  -   Recommendations for measures applicable in the hture in environmental
      management to mitigate potential environmental impacts for the subprojects in
      specific economic sectors

(vii) Collect data1 information in the natural environment and social-economic
      conditions of 6 ecological-economic regions.

(viii)Collect Vietnamese and international documents on environmental assessment
      and measures in environmental management for small-scale projects in
      agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, small industries etc.

(ix) Prepare Regional EIA reports (for 6 regions): this activity is conducted by the
      Consultant itself but it is not required in the TOR.

(x) Prepare EIA report for the SRFP (Vietnamese and English versions).

(xi) Organize Meetings1 Workshops for public consultation with participation of
      representatives from governmental agencies, NGOs and PFIs to receive
      comments on the EIA report.

1.6.   STUDY METHODOLOGY

1.6.1. Criteria for Selection of Subprojects


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)             25

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    July 2007

                                                                                                ..
28. To have scientific and practical backgrounds for selection of over 500
     representative subprojects out of over 100,000subprojects in SOEs, the Consultant
     set up and apply the criteria for subproject classification. These criteria are clearly
     described in the "Technical proposal" (February 207), approved by BIDV and the
     WB.

29. Selection of Subprojects to be visited is based on the following principles: (i)
     subprojects borrowing loans from the RDF 11; (ii) In over 500 subprojects to be
    visited there are over 100 subprojects in the environmentally high risk group and
    410 subprojects in the environmentally medium risk group; (iii) Selection of the
    subprojects in SOEs provided by the PFIs, the selected subprojects on the criteria
    of geography (3 zones: North, Central and South of Vietnam); (iv) for the list of
    the disbursed subprojects; (v) for the economic sectors and for all subprojects with
    the loans of over USD 50,000

30. All subprojects have small scales in term of loans and environmental impacts,
    therefore, terms of "high risk" and "medium risk" in this Project cannot be
    compared with "high risk" and "medium risk" in projects in the WB and
    Vietnamese project classification in EIA. In this study the environmental risks of
    subprojects are determined by four (4) following criteria:

(a). Subprojects belonging to class A required by GOV to have full EIA report: they
      are classified as "high risk" subprojects in this Project. In fact, all financed
      subprojects under the SRFP are not required to have EIA reports.

Under Circular No.O8/2006/TT-BTNMT of MONRE, all subprojects not required to
have EIA reports should have Commitment of Environment Protection. However,
under the SRFP, subprojects may be divided into 2 groups of "high risk" and "medium
risk". The remaining subprojects may be considered as "no risk" ones.

(b). The subprojects having highly potential pollution but not belong to criterion (a): may
     be classified into "highrisk" and "mediumrisk" depending on scalesof impacts.

(c). The subprojects having potentially negative impacts to the natural habitats but not
     belong to criterion (a): they may be classified into "high risk" and "medium risk"
     depending on scales of impacts.

31. The subprojects of class of "over free limit" but do not belong to criterion (a) are
    also classified according to criterion (b) and (c). As there are not any subprojects
    belonged to criterion (a), the classification of the subprojects into "high risk" and
    "medium risk" ones is based on criteria (b) and (c), where the following factors are
    required to be used:
    -  According to criterion (b): subprojects havingpotential pollution

The subprojects that have both factors are selected based on:

(i)   Business or production in the high pollution potential sectors: production of
      construction materials (brisk, ceramic, cement...); chemicals (rubber, plastic,
      paint, hndarnental chemicals etc); animal husbandry (pigs, cows, chickens); food
     processing (fish sauce, shrimp, fish processing, candy, sugar production): The
      pollution caused by these economic sectors may create bad affects on human's
      health and animal's life.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            26

 SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                        July 2007


 (Subprojects in sectors listed in "Classzfication of subprojects under environmental
 risks" proposed by the TC I11 are also referred to).

 (ii) Subprojects of criterion (i) but locating in a densely populated area: a province
      with population density of over 300 inhabitants/km2 or a town or district with
      pollution density of over 1,000 inhabitants/krn2. This is an important factor to
      assess the potential pollution created by the subprojects to the water, soil, air
      environment and public health (criteria "environmental hot spot" in TOR).

                Table 1.1: The subprojects of "high risk" class classified
                             by the criteria of the Consultant

    Economic                  Characteristics of Subprojects                   Subproject's Location
      sector                         Subproject's scale
 Animal              -   over 1,000pig heads or 100cow, buffalos               In densely populated
 husbandry               heads or 10.000 domestic fowls                        area
 Industry-Small      -   Production of bricks: over 10mil piecesly             Ditto
 Industry
                     -   Production of ceramic, porcelain: over 5 mil          ditto
                         productsly
                     -   Production of chemicals, plastic, rubber,
                         paper, solid waste and hazardous waste
                         recycling, plating, metallurgy (all scales)
                     -   Exploitation of mineral resources (stone,
                         clay, coal, color metals etc), groundwater: all
                          scales
 Food                 -   Shrimp, fish, meat processing: 2500 Tly              In densely populated
 processing                                                                    area
                      -  Production of fish sauce, soybean sauce 2             ditto
                          1,000 Tly
                   1  -   Production of sugar, candy, milk: 21,000 T/y ditto
                      -
ppp

                          New construction of a rural road (asfalt or          In densely populated
(                  I      concret) over 10 km in length                        area
 Transport
                                                                               In sensitive ecological
I                                                                             I zone                      I
                   I


 Aquaculture          -   Extensive shrimp culture 21Oha                        At any location
                      -   Industrial or semi-industrial scale shrimp            ditto
                          culture 22ha
                      -   Fish and other aquatic animal cultures 2lha           ditto
 Agriculture,         -   Construction of a reservoir 250ha, canal,            Any location
 Irrigation               dike 25,000m
                      -   Cultivation of rice or rubber or coffee or tea        In sensitive ecological
                          2100ha                                                zone
1Trade                -   Trade, storage of pesticides > 5,000 kgly             Any location
                      -   Trade, storage, transport of fuels 21,000 tly         ditto

 Source: Proposed by Consultantfor EIA of the SRFP, Februaly 2007
     -  According to criterion (c): Potential impacts on the natural habitats


                                                                               - - -

 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                 27

 SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                               July 2007


 The subprojects included 2 following factors are selected based on:

 (i)  Location in a buffer or core zone of a natural reserve, National Park or coastal
      mangrove forest area of high biodiversity (criteria "natural habitat" in TOR): any
      scale.

 (ii) Obvious damage on the natural ecosystems: destruction of 2100 ha of forests;
      dredge of a canal of 25,00Om, construction of reservoir, exploitation of ground
      water, and mineral resources, enlargement of coastal line into the sea etc.: any
      scale.

 32. Scheme of the steps in screening and selection of subprojects in each PFI is
     summarized in Figure 1.2.


                                                              Determinationof number of
      Statistic of available lists of                         subprojects of each PFI to be
         all subprojects of PFIs                               selected by percentage (%)

                                                    Screeningeach PFI
                                      7
                                          4
        Whether the subproject
      is category A? (Criteriona)


                 No            I                                "High risk" subproject


                    +                                                    +
                                                 Whether the subproject is located in rich
       Whether the subproject is                  natural reserves (core or buffer zones of
1   potentially risky to environment,    I     I   Natural Reserve, coastal wetlands etc.)    1
                                        I
              Criterion b)                                       Criterion c)
                                                                         I                 I
                                                                        +I                  I
I                                        I
            I              I                                                Yes
                             Yes
                                                         It is selected to environmental
              I                                                       audit
                                                                                              No
                 whether the subproject located ---D           (>500 subprojects)

                   in a densely populated area

         No

                                                                  v                   Not selected
                                                Classify into "high risk" and
                                               "medium risk" subproject based
                                                 on their location and scales
                                                          (Table 1.1)


           Not selected

                                             "High risk"                 "Medium risk"
                                          subproject(> 100)           subproject (>400)


      Figure 1.2: Chart of screening and selecting step of subprojects in each PFI



 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                        28

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    July 2007


1.6.2. Method of SystematicRandom Sampling

33. The process of screening and selecting subprojects to be assessed for each PFI is
     described as follows:

Step 1: The TCIII provides Consultant with list of all subprojects of PFIs and 26
subprojects of "over free limit" group.

Step 2: Estimate the total number of sub-loans (sub-projects) for each Bank (PFI) and
calculation the total number of sub-loans for all PFIs by adding the estimated for each
bank (over 100,000 subprojects).

Step 3: Calculate percentage (%) of subprojects of each PFI in the total number of
subprojects for all PFIs and number of subprojects to be selected for each PFI.

Exception: The PFIs having less than 10 subprojects, the number of the subprojects to
be selected is 10. This number is needed for preliminary evaluation of environmental
management of this PFI.

Step 4: Select sub-projects at each PFI by systematic random sampling: divide the
total number of subprojects for that bank by the number of subprojects needed for
selection. This will give the frequency for sampling.

Step 5: Based on criteria (i), (ii) and (iii) in mentioned above determination whether
the subproject belongs to "environmental risk" one"?

Step 6: If the subproject is not "risk" one, checking the next subproject is needed until
selection of the subproject meeting the criteria (i), (ii) and (iii).

In any case, the total number of subprojects to be selected must be 500 as required by
BIDV and WB.

In fact, the total number of subprojects selected in the TC I11 office is 548. The
exceeded number of the selected subprojects are put into reserve list in case that some
subprojects do not have enough required information during field visits.

Note:
- 26 subprojects    of "over free limit" group not implicitly belonging to the selected list
are also considered in each case. Therefore, these projects need to be classified.
- To have high representation and reduce field visit timing: if any province has
number of selected subprojects less than 4, it would be excluded from the selection
list. Instead, such subprojects would be replaced by others of similar sectors in other
provinces in order to ensure each selected province having more than 4 selected
subprojects.
-  According to the requirement of the WB and BIDV, subprojects in Khanh Hoa,
Ninh Thuan, Binh Thuan, Ben Tre, Long An, Ba Ria-Vung Tau, Tien Giang and Kien
Giang provinces are not selected as these provinces have been seriously damaged by
the typhoon Durian.

Step 7: Setting up a list of 548 selected subprojects with division in 7 ecological
economic regions and with division in economic sectors and classification into "risk"
levels.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)             29

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    Jury 2007

Step 8: Continue to consult with the local branches of PFIs during field surveys to            ..

delete some subprojects filed in the TCIII but not having enough required information,
or already settled the loans or not yet implemented or not having obvious address and
add new subprojects meeting the proposed selection criteria.

1.6.3. Results of Subproject Selection

34. Combining number of the subprojects selected in the TCIII Office and number of
    the subprojects adjusted during field visit the final total number of subprojects
    selected for environmental impact assessment (environmental audits) is 521. The
    average loan size of each subproject is USD 10,000. List of the selected
    subprojects is given in Appendix 2.1(Chapter Two).

35. According to the above mentioned selection procedures, 111 subprojects are
    classified as "high risk" ones. All subprojects borrowing over USD 50,000 were
    selected. The selection results indicate that the selects subprojects well represent
    for the economic sectors (7 sectors), for geographic regions (27 provinces in 6
    ecological- economic regions of Vietnam) and for the PFIs (21122 PFIs).
    Therefore, the results of environmental impact assessment will well express the
    environmental issues of the SRFP.

1.6.4. Divisions of the Selected Subprojects

   Division by ecological - economic regions

36. Vietnam has not a very large area (330,991 km2) but it is stretched form 2307'N to
   8030'N with topography, climate and hydrology differed from regions to regions,
   which creates a diversified and specific ecology for each region. The natural
   habitats have great impacts on agriculture and forestry production in each region,
   establishing different ecological- economic areas. Each area has different natural,
   social- economic environment. Accordingly, this report is mainly concerned about
   environmental impacts made by subprojects in each ecological- economic area.

37. Based on the location the selected subprojects are divided into 6 ecological-
     economic regions in 3 zones of Vietnam.

   (i)      Region I: Northern Mountainous and Mid-Upland (NMM) Region
            (Northern Vietnam)

   (ii)     Region 2: Red River Delta (RRD) Region (Northern Vietnam)

   (iii)    Region 3: North Central (NC) Region (Central Vietnam)

   (iv)     Region 4: South Central and Central Highland (SC-CH) Region (Central
            Vietnam)

   (v)      Region 5: Northeast Mekong (NEM) Region (Southern Vietnam)

   (vi)     Region 6: Mekong Delta (MD) Region (Southern Vietnam)

   Division by economic sectors

38. Based on the characteristics in business and production all 521 selected subprojects
   are divided into 7 main economic sectors:

   (i)      Fishery (aquaculture and fishing)

   (ii)     Animal husbandry


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            30

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    July 2007


   (iii)   Industry - small industry

   (iv)    Food processing

   (v)     Agriculture

   (vi)    Trade

   (vii)   Transport and Construction

39. The results of subproject selection in term of economic sectors and related PFIs are
given in Table 1.2.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)             3 1

   SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                         July 2007


                                     Table 1.2. Results of subproject selection in economic sectors and PFIs

I    I                       I                             Number of the subprojects to be visited                     l~umber od Percentage  I
              PFIs                                            Economic sector                                           subprojects
                                                                                                                        in SRFP
                              Fishery Animal Agricul Industry Food                 Trade Construction Other    Percent-

                                                 ture       -small      processi         -transport            age
                                                            industry    -ry

      VBARD                       86        81         31         27            6     17          21        269  51.63      91,690

      EAB                          4         3          1           7           1      2                     18   3.45       1,921
                                                                       -                                   -

      Kien Long Bank                                                                                                           390

      OCB                          8         3          1           1                  1                     14   2.69       4,836

      Techcombank                            1                      3                  1           1          6   1.15         338

      Nam-A Bank                   1         5                      1           1      1                      9   1.73         258

      Dai-A Bank                   3        10                      5           2                            20   3.84         347

      Military Bank                1         2                      3           1      1           1          9   1.73         182

      SaigonBank                   1                                5           4      4                     14   2.69         775

      Habubank                                                      9                                         9   1.73         363

      Phuong Nam Bank              6                                            1      1                      8   1.54       2,151

      Saigon-Hanoi Bank            2         3          1           3           2      4                     15  2.88          142

      VIB                          2         1                      3           1                             7   1.34         265

      Western Bank                 4                    6           2                  3                     15  2.88          533

      Sacombank                    2         9                      8                  4                     23  4.4 1       6,280

      CCF                          7         2          1         22                   2                     34  6.53          494



      Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                 25

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    July 2007




Source: TCI11of BID V, June 2007




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                 26

 SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    July 2007


 1.6.5. Procedures of Field Survey and on-site Environmental Impact Assessment                  .-


40. The field survey and in situ environmental assessment are implemented by the
     following procedure:

 (i)   The consultant set up field survey teams (14 teams included 28 members in total,
      please see Section 1.7).

 (ii) The survey team members are trained on filling 3 forms of questionnaires
       designed by the Consultant Team Leader: 1 form of questionnaire for subproject
       owners, 1 form for credit officers of PFI branches, 1 form for survey team
       member. The samples of questionnaire are shown in Appendices F, G and H in
       the Technical Proposal or Appendices 1.2, 1.3and 1.4 in this report.

 (iii) Upon visiting the cities, towns or districts, firstly the survey team has a meeting
      with representatives of PFI's branches to:
   -  Check up the list and address of the subprojects to be visited and adjust
      subprojects if it is necessary.
   -  Fill questionnaire for PFI's credit officers (Appendix F or 1.2) to obtain
      information to evaluate PFI's compliance with the Environmental Guidelines (in
       this study a total of 134 credit officers from 21 PFIs were interviewed. This
      number is almost 3 times higher than BIDV's requirement).
   -  Ask the local branches of PFIs to support the survey teams in finding locations of
      the subprojects.

 (iv) Coming to the subproject's sites the survey teams conduct the following
       activities:
   -  Interview and fill questionnaires used for subproject owners (Appendix G in
       Technical Proposal or Appendix 1.3in this Report).
   -   Conduct environmental survey at the subproject and surrounding area to fill
       questionnaire (Appendix H or 1.4 in this report) used for field survey members.
       This is most important questionnaire applicable for in situ environmental
       assessment.
   -  Make photographs in side and outside of the visited subproject.

 41. Duration for field survey, interviewing and filling questionnaires at each
       subproject site is 60-70 minutes. In case where the subprojects have specific
       environmental problems the survey duration may be lasted 120-150 minutes, not
       including the time of movement from subproject to subproject.

 42. All questions in each questionnaire should be filled.

 43. The results of field surveys and in situ environmental assessment are obtained
       from over 1,000 questionnaires sheets for 521 visited subproject owners and 135
       questionnaire sheets for the interviewed credit officers from over 100branches of
       21 PFIs. (See: the jilled questionnaire sheets in an Additional volume of this
       Report).

 1.6.6. Data Handling



 ConsuItant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            27

 SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                        July 2007


 44. The filled questionnaires from 521 subproject owners (Appendix G) are analyzed
      to   assess    their socio-economic        conditions    and measures        applied    for
      environmental protection.
   -  The filled questionnaires from interviewed 135 credit officers (Appendix F) are
      analyzed to evaluate PFI's and BIDV compliance to the Environmental
      Guidelines.
   -  The filled questionnaires for survey team members (Appendix Hj are analyzed to
      assess the integration of environmental protection into economic activities each
      visited subproject.
   -  The obtained results of analysis of the filled questionnaire are consolidated by
      computer soft wares

 1.6.7. Methods in Synthesis of the Obtained Results and Preparation of EIA
        Report

 45. Synthesis of the obtained information in environmental surveys and preparation of
      EIA Report for the SRFP are conducted in 2 steps:

 (i) Synthesis of the obtained information andpreparation of Regional EZA Report.

 This work is conducted by the Regional Team Leader based on analysis of the filled
 questionnaires forrns F, G, H for the subprojects in each Region.

 46. Outline and methods for preparation of the Regional EIA Report required by the
      Consultant Team Leader is given in Table 1.3.

         Table 1.3: Outline of Regional EIA Report and methodsltechnique
                   to be used for preparation of Regional EIA Report


                                                        Estimated
                                                                          Method1Technique
                                                        number of
                                                                                to be used
                                                           pages

 Chapter One                                                              - Collection of the
                                                                          existing          data1
 Summary of the Present State of the
                                                                          information    of   the
 Environment and Socio-Economy of the
                                                                          environmental socio-
 Region
                                                                          economic conditions
 1.1.   Physical environment
                                                                          of each region
 1.2.   Biological environment                                            -       Data         on
 1.3.   Economy                                                           environmental factors

 1.4.   Society                                                           are put into Annexes

 Chapter Two                                                              Based on list of the
 Present State of the Visited Subprojects in                              subprojects and their
 the Region                                                               address

 2.1.   Location of the visited subprojects
12.2.   Characteristic of the subproject area          I                 I                       I
 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                 28

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                         July 2007


        Number        of subprojects located       in                    Handing           data,
        residential, historical, cultural sites                          information from the
       Number ................... %                                      filled questionnaires

       Ty-pical       cases  (Name,    address    of
       subproject        located   in   residential,
       historic areas that may have impacts on
       living and cultural environment.. .)

       Number of subprojects located              in
       ecologically sensitive areas (mangrove
       forests,        natural    reserves,     bird
       sanctuaries....)
       Number ..............%

       Ty-pical cases (may have negative
       impacts on biological environment)

       Division of subprojects by economic
       sectors
       Animal husbandry, number.. .,....%
       Industry-small industry, number.. .,...%
       Food processing, number...,....%
       Aquaculture, number.. .,....%
       Transport, number.. .,....%
       Trade, number. ..,....%
       Others, number. ..,....%

       Present status of the visited subprojects                         Handing    the    filled
       owner                                                             questionnaires
                                                                         (Appendix G)
       Economy

       Number of households having monthly
       turnover 2 1Omil VND:...................%

       Number of households having monthly
       turnover 2.0     - 10mil VND: .........%

       Number of poor households (monthly
       turnover       1.0   - 2.0    mil     VND):
       ...............%
       Number         of very poor households
       (monthly turnover <1.0mil): ........%

       Education

       Number of households having persons
       obtained high education (colleagues,
       university level): .........%

       Number of households having persons


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)

 SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                          July 2007


         obtained medium education (class 5          -  1
         12): ....%
                                                          ~
     -   Number of households having persons
         obtained low education (%lass 4): .....%
I Chapter   Three                                         I
  Environmental Impacts Created by the
  Subprojects by Economic Sectors

  3.1. General environmental impact assessment                             Priority: EIA for high
  for the subprojects in the region                                        risk subprojects

  3.2. Environmental impacts of the subprojects                           -    EIA is conducted
  in aquaculture                                                               based            on

  3.3. Environmental impacts of the subprojects                                 synthesis of the
                                                                                filled
  in husbandry                                                            I


                                                                                questionnaires of
  3.4. Environmental impacts of the subprojects                           1    Appendix H
  in food processing
                                                                          I
  3.5. Environmental impacts of the subprojects
                                                                                Present         1-2
  in industry  - small industry
                                                                                typical cases in
  3.6. Environmental impacts of the subprojects
  in food processing

  3.7. Environmental impacts of the subprojects
  in animal husbandry

  3.8. Environmental impacts of the subprojects
  in Trade

  3.9. Environmental impacts of the subprojects
  in Transport

  3.10. Environmental impacts of the subprojects
  in other sectors

  3.11. Percentage of the high risk subprojects
                                 -

   - Major negative impacts:......%
 I - Medium    negative impacts:......%                    I
   - Minor (small) negative impacts: ......%
   3.12. Comments of local People Committee/
   stakeholders on the subproject (if any)

   Chapter Four                                                             Synthesis             of

   Evaluation of Compliance of PFIs and                                     datafinformation

   Subproject Owners to the Environmental                                   from      the     filled

   Law and Guidelines                                                       questionnaire    (Form
                                                                            in Appendix H)
   4.1. Evaluation          on       Environmental
        Management          and      Guidance        in
        Environmental Protection Conducted by
        PFIs.


   Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                  30

 SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessm ent (Final)                                    July 2007


  4.1.1.   Environmental       communication         and
  guideline of the PFI

 4.1.2. Environmental checking up (monitoring)
  for the subprojects conducted by PFIs

 4.2. Evaluation       on     compliance         to  the
       Environmental Guidelines of subproject
       owners

 4.2.1. Environmental awareness
/    -   Good awareness ...%
I    -   Bad awareness ... %

 4.2.2. Activities in environmental protection
         and pollution control

 a) Number        of   the     subprojects       needing
     pollution treatment facilities: ..................%

 b) Number of the subprojects installed proper
     waste treatment facilities:.............%

 c) Number of subprojects installed/improper
     waste treatment facilities........ and ....%

 d) Number of subprojects do not install waste
     treatment facilities....... and ................%

 e) Number of subprojects well protecting
     natural habitats......... and ..............%

 f)  Number of subprojects encroaching into
     natural habitats ............and ........... %

 g) Number of subprojects getting complaints
     from     local peoples       on environmental
     problems .........and %

 4.3. Lessons in environmental management
       of the visited subprojects

 4.3.1. Reasons       of     good      environmental
         protection
     -   Thanks to WB and BIDV guidelines
     - Thanks to local environment division
         guidelines
     -   Due to subproject's owners awareness
     - Due to financial and technological
         capacities of subproject owners

  4.3.2. Reasons       of      bad     environmental
         Protection
      -  WB and BIDV not providing guidelines
         and supervision
      - Due to local environment division

  Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)             3 1

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                      July 2007


       guidelines
    -  Due to subproject's owners awareness
    -  Due to financial and technological
       capacities of subproject owners


Chapter Five                                                            Based on the practical
                                                                        conditions of PFIs
Recommendations on Measures to mitigate
Impacts       and     Compliance         to     the                     and       subproject
                                                                        owners    and      the
Environmental Guidelines
                                                                        Environmental
5.1. Measures           in        environmental
                                                                        guidelines
     management for PFIs in the future

5.1.1 Measures to enhance environmental
management capacity in banks

5.1.2   Measures     to    publicize     WB     and
Vietnam's       guidelines     on     environment
protection of subprojects

5.1.3 Measures to control and supervise
environment compliance

5.2. Measures in environmental protection
      and pollution control for subprojects
      by economic sectors

5.2.1 Aquaculture

5.2.2 Husbandry

5.2.3 Food processing

5.2.4 Industry and small industry

5.2.5 Agriculture and irrigation

5.2.6 Trading

5.2.7 Transport

5.2.8 Others

Conclusions and recommendations

Appendices
    -  All filled questionnaires
    - Data,      tables,   figures,    photos     in
       Appendix F, G, H

47. The Regional EIA Reports are not outputs required by BIDV but they are
      important materials for preparation of the EIA Report for the whole SRFP.

(ii) Synthesis and Preparation of EIA Reportfor the SRFP

48. An EIA Report for the SRFP is prepared by the Consultant Team Leader, Deputy
      Team Leader and Supporting Consultants based on:


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)               32

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                    July 2007

-    Results of analysis of the filledquestionnaires for 135credit officers fiom 21PFIs.
-    Results of analysis of the filled questionnaires from 521 subprojects owners of 6
     ecological- economic regions.
-    Results of analysis of the filled questionnaires for the Geld surveys members at
     521 subprojects

-    6 Regional EIA Reports

49.   List of Content of this EIA Report prepared by the Consultant presents all
     objectives and contents of the Environmental Service required by BIDV and WE3
     in the TOR (Appendix I.I).

1.7.   ORGANIZATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICE

50. The Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI) with
     its Environmental Protection Centre (VESDEC) is an Environmental Consultant
     (the Consultant) in EIA for this Project. All tasks in "Consulting service on
     Environmental Impact Assessment of subprojects funded by the SRFP" were
     implemented by the Consultant from March 15 to May 15, 2007, including
     setting up study methodology, subproject's screening, selection, field survey on
     the socio-economic conditions state of the environment, environmental impacts
     of 521 selected subprojects, visiting over 100 branches of 21 PFIs, interviewing
     135 credit officers, analysis of the filled questionnaires, preparation of Regional
     EIA reports and EIA report for the project.

51. To fulfill the large volume of the above mentioned works in a very short duration,
     the Consultant has set up study teams with the manpower and responsibilities
    bellows.

1.7.1. Consultant Team

   Responsibilities

52. Organization of EIA study, setting up methodology, collection of national and
     international documents on the related topics, data handling, preparation of
     regional and international EIA reports.

   Members: 5 major consultants

53. Consultant Team Leader: Le Trinh, Ass. Prof. Dr., Task: setting up study
     methodology, organization of the study, conduction of training, chief preparer of
     EIA Report.

54. Consultant Deputy - Team Leader: Nguyen Le Tu Quynh, MSc (Environmental
     Science), Tasks: Secretary, coordination of the study teams, data collection,
     handling, participation in EIA Report preparation.

55. Senior Consultants: Pham Binh Quyen, Ass. Prof, Dr (Biology), Nguyen Huu
     Chiem, Ass. Prof, Dr. (Environmental Science) and Vo Tri Chung (MSc). They
     are Region Team Leaders of 316 study regions; organization of field surveys, data
     handling, preparation of regional EIA report.

1.7.2. Supporting Consultants

    Responsibilities


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            33

   SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                                                                                                                                                  July 2007


    56. Conducting field survey to 521 selected subprojects and over 100 branches of 21
                 PFIs, filling questionnaires for the selected subproject owners and credit officers,
                 data handling, participation in preparation of Regional EIA reports.

            Members

    57. Six (6) supporting teams were set up to be responsible for EIA study in selected
                 subprojects in 6 regions. Each team includes 2-4 survey groups, each survey
                 group includes 2 persons (university graduate or MSc or Dr.Sc of Environmental
                 Sciences or Biology, Agriculture, Sociology etc., obtained training in EIA). Each
                 team has a task to visit and make on-site environmental assessment for 25-40
                 subprojects in a duration of 7-12 days. List of the members of the Supporting
                 Teams is shown in Table 1.4.

                          Table 1.4: List of members of the Consultant and Supporting Teams
                                                                           in conducting the EIA for the SRF'P
                                                                                                         ~1
                                                                                  Academic
      NO                                               Name                                                                      Team                                                                           Position
                                                                                   degree
1              1                                                               I
                                                                                 Ass.                                                                                                            Consultant Team
           1       L t Trinh                                                                           1                      Project Office
                                                                               1 Env. Science 1    Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Leader
1               1                                                                                                                                                                      I Deputy Team Leader,
          2        Nguy;n L t Th QuPnh                                         ( MSc. Env. Sc          1                         -ditto-
1               1                                                                                      1
                                                                               I                                                                                                       1,                      Secretary

          3        Yd Tri Chung                                                  Dr., Forestry                                                                      MM                             Regional Leader
                                                                                                                                 Region

                                                                                  Dr., Env.
                                                                                                                                 -ditto-                                                 Supporting Consultant
                                                                                 Technology
                                                                                                     I                           -ditto-
           5       Nguy;n Xu5n Hai
 ...--......      .................................. -.                                                    ..-..--.............             -.......................    .- -............  -....................
           6    1  Nguy8n Duc Tung                                             / Bach. Env.Sc            I                       -ditto-                                                1


                                                                                  MSc., Env,                      Red River Delta
          9        Ngb Thanh Tim                                                                                                                                                                    Regional Leader
                                                                                    Tech.                                        Region
1       10 Nguy8n Cao ~ u a n
               1                                                               I Env. Engineer           I                       -ditto-                                                1Supporting consultant                             1



                                                                                    Bach,
                                                                                                                                 -ditto-
                                                                                  Sociology
                                                                               I                         1                       -ditto-                                                (                       -ditto-
                1                                                                                     I
 ........       ....................................   --. .............-..     MSc._Env. Sc.
                                                                                      ............                               _..........                               ............                                   .............

                   Bui Quang Huy                                                                                                 -ditto-                                                                        -ditto-



    Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                                                                                                           34

SRFP -Environmental Impact Assessment (Final)                                       July 2007




                                                                           Supporting consultant




58. With the proper organization and management of the study, in only 60 days (from
    March 15 to May 15) the Consultant has fulfilled almost all tasks given in the
    TOR and in the Agreement with BIDV, including setting up study methodology,
     selection of the subprojects, field surveys at over 100branches of the 21 PFIs and
    at 521 subprojects at 6 ecological economic regions, data processing, regional
    EIA report preparation and preparation of a consolidated EIA report (Vietnamese
    and English). This is a great effort of the Consulting Firm (VESDIIVESDEC) to
    meet the urgent requirements of the WB and BIDV in EIA for the SRFP.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)               35

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
       -                                                                            July 2007


                                      CHAPTER TWO

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SUBPROJECTS
                AND PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS


 2.1. ZONING OF THE SUBPROJECTS

 59.     The total subprojects actually investigated are 521 (21 subprojects more than
 requested by WB and BIDV), in which there are 111 subprojects of "high risk" class.
 The list of those selected and visited 521 subprojects is given in Appendix 2.1.

 60.     Details of location, economic conditions and culture, characteristics of
 manufacturing -trading technology and environmental impacts of every subproject are
 shown in the Questionnaires Sample G (as attachment to the EIA report). This Chapter
 only outlines some characteristics of the subprojects with the environmental impacts
 investigated and assessed by the Consultants.

 2.1.1. Classification of Subprojects by Ecological -Economic Regions

 61.     It is possible to classify 521 investigated subprojects in the 27 provinces in the
 whole country into 7 ecological - economic regions of Vietnam (actually 6 regions
 because the South of Central and the Highland Regions are incorporated into one) as
 shown in Table 2.1 and Figure 2.1.

                          Table 2.1. Classification of Subprojects
                      by Ecological -Economic Regions of Vietnam

                                                                        Subprojects
               Ecological -Economic Region
                                                                 Number             %

   1     Northern Mountainous Midland (NMM)                          98            18.81
         Region

  1.1 Bacgiang                                                       37            7.10        1
I
  1.2 Phutho                                                          7            1.34

  1.3 Vinhphuc                                                       33            6.33
1 1.4 Hoabinh
        1
  1.5 Quangninh                                                       9            1.73

  1.6 Thainguyen                                                      3            0.58
pppp

1  2     Red River Delta (RRD)Region                                 148           28.41

 2.1. Haiduong                                                       31            5.95

  2.2    Bacninh                                                     78            14.97
/ 2.3 Hanam

  2.4    Hungyen                                                      7            1.34
  2.5    Hatay                                                        9            1.73

  2.6 Ninhbinh                                            1           3            0.58

   3     North of Central (NC) Region                                57            10.94
  3.1 Thanhhoa                                                        19           3.65

 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)             36

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                                July 2007


 3.2 Hatinh                                                          38            7.29

  4    South      of   Central    (SC) - Central                     25            4.80
       Highlands (CH) Region (*)


 4.2 Binhdinh                                                        4             0.77

  5    Northeast Mekong (NEM) Region                                 61            11.71

 5.1   Dongnai

 5.2 Binhduong                                                       13            2.50


 5.4 Tayninh                                                         5             0.96
'
 5.5   HoChiMinh City                                                9             1.73

  6    Mekong Delta (MD) Region                                     132            25.34

 6.1 Angiang                                                         41            7.87

 --
 6.2 Baclieu                                                         20            3.84

 6.3 Dongthap

 6.4 Haugiang                                                         5            0.96

 6.5   Vinhlong                                                       3            0.58

 6.6   Cantho City                                                   52            9.98

 (*):No subproject in the Central Highlands is selected

 Source: VESDI,April 2007.

                                                                 -1
                                                                                     I1
                                                                       NIVLM Region


                 25.34%                          18.81%                 RRD Region


                                                                       NC Region


                                                                        SC-CHRegion


                                                                        NEM Region
                     4.80%    10.94%




                      Figure 2.1. Percentage of selected subprojects
                       by ecological - economic regions of Vietnam

 62.    The subprojects are selected with the method of systematic random sampling
 distributed in all 6 ecological - economic zones. As number of the subprojects of the
 SRFP is highly concentrated in 3 regions (the Mekong Delta, the Red River Delta and
 the Northern Midland - Mountainous Regions), the subprojects in those 3 regions
 account for 72.55% of the total selected subprojects.

                                                                                              37
 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                                Jury 2007


 2.1.2. Subprojects by Zones of Vietnam

 63.     The classification of subprojects by zones (Northern, Central and Southern) is
 shown in Table 2.2 and Figure 2.2.

           Table 2.2. Classification of subprojects by the zones of Vietnam

                                                                         Subprojects
 TT                          Zones
                                                                   Number            YO
                                                                                                 ~
  1      Northern Vietnam                                             246           47.22       1
1 1.1 Northern Midland - ~ountainousRegion                             98           18.81

  1.2 Red River Delta Region                                          148           28.41
----
1 2      Central Vietnam                                               82           15.74

 2.1     North of Central Vietnam Region                               57           10.94
---
 2.2. South of Central Vietnam Highland Region
        ,                           -                                  25            4.80       1
1                                                                                 1              1
                                                             I
  3     1SouthernVietnam                                              193           37.04
I                      - -    - -    - -

 3.1   / East of South Vietnam Region
1                                                                                   25.34       1
 Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.




         Figure 2.2. Percentage of classified subprojects by 3 zones of Vietnam

 64.     Since the environmental impacts by the subprojects are apparently dependent
 on characteristics of climate, hydrology, topography and socio-economy of every
 ecological   -   economic region, in this EIA study, subprojects are classified in
 ecological  -  economic region, not in zones. In Vietnam, the zones are large with many
 regions of quite different natural and socio-economic characteristics then
 environmental impact assessment on each zone is not appropriate.

 2.2. DIVISION OF THE SELECTED SUBPROJECTS BY ECONOMIC SECTORS

 65.     Based on manufacturing - business characteristics and in combination with the
 site investigation and survey, 521 subprojects are grouped into 7 economic sectors, of
 which the one of the most subprojects account for 28.41% and the one of the least
 3.84% (Tables 2.3and Figure 2.3).



 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                38

 SRFP Environmental Assessm ent Report (Final)
      -                                                                                July 2007


                Table 2.3. Economic division of the selected subprojects

                                                                  Subproleets
 No.                            Sector
                                                                       Number          %
  1    Fishery (Aquaculture and Fishing)                                 148           28.41
  2    Animal Husbandry                                                  132          25.34
  3    Agriculture                                                        43           8.25
  4    Industry - Small Industry                                         108          20.73
  5    Food Processing                                                    20           3.84
  6    Trade                                                              47           9.02
  7    Transport and Construction                                         23           4.41
       Total                                                             521          100.00

 Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI, April 2007.



                                                                    Animal Husbandry
                       9.02%     4.41%          28.41%
           3.84%
                                                                    Agriculture

                                                                    Industry- smn
                                                                    Industry
                                                                  HFood Processing


                      8.25%                25.34%                   Trade

                                                                                     I
                                                               1  HTransport and
                                                                    construction

               Figure 2.3. Percentage of subprojects in economic sectors

66.    It is necessary to point out that due to the criteria for subproject selection aim at
selection of the "high risk" and "medium risk" at "hot spot" and sensitive ecological
areas, percentage of the 521 selected in the economic sector (Table 2.4) does not
present percentage of the whole 256,282 subprojects in the economic sectors of the
SRFP. For example, percentages of the selected subprojects in fishery, industry-small
scale industry, animal husbandry and agriculture are 28.41%; 20.73%; 25.34% and
8.25%, respectively, while the percentages of them in the whole subprojects of the
SRFP are 2.45%; 0.24%; 52.65% and 31.86%, respectively. In term of loans of the
economic sectors the percentage of the economic sectors are greatly differ: the loans
for potentially polluted industry-small industry sector occupy only 2.34% of the total
loans of the project (Table 2.4).

       Table 2.4. Percentage of loans of subprojects in the economic sectors
                                   (up to March 31, 2007)

                                                                              Unit: 1,000 W D
INo  I     Sector            Sub-project               Credit for subprojects in economic

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                39

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
             -                                                                               July 2007


                                                                             -------
                                                        I

                                 Amount Percentage Total credit of             Loans from RDF I1
                                                           subprojects         Money         Percentage
       1        Agriculture       6,291        2.45      631,824,552        320,385,551         7.45
      2           Animal         134,926       52.65     1,968.342,569 1,163,470,602            27.06     ,
    1---- I 1   husbandrv                 I             1                 1                 1              1
                           d              I

      3         Agriculture       81,662   1   31.86     1,370,482,155      829,113,488
      4        Industry-small      603         0.24      189,148,651         l00,514,026
                 industry

 5                 Food         , 6,689        2.61      545,424,396        260,303,047     605
                processing
      6            Trade          17,441       6.81      2,133,190,943 1,088,576,141            25.32
    i  7 1        Others        1 8.670 1      3.38      1,078,340,642 1     536,987,166 1      12.49      1
                   Total        1256,282 (    100,OO    (7,916,753,908 4,299,323,021
                                                                          1                 1   100,O


     2.2.1. Subprojects in Fishery

     67.        The fishery sector with 148 subprojects selected and assessed in term of
     environmental impacts is consisted of two main branches: aquaculture and fishing.
     Main aquaculture models include: floating cages (in the fresh water zones in the deltas
     of the Red River, the Mekong River and the coastal saline waters in the Red River
     Delta, the Mekong Delta, North and South of Central Vietnam), shrimp culture (coasts
     of the Red River Delta, South of Central Region, the Mekong Delta) and fish culture in
     ponds and lagoons (in all zones); inshore fishing (mainly in coasts of North and South
     of Central Region). The subprojects of the fishery sector in the regions are shown in
     Table 2.5.

                                Table 2.5. Subprojects of the fishery sector
        11                                                      1            Subprojects             I
     No.                            Region                      1                    1               1
              I                                                      Number               O h
1      1      1~ o k t a i n o iMidland in the North
                                s                               1            15      1  10.14        1
1     2      I Red River Delta                                  1            53      1  35.81        1
1     3        North of Central                                 1            16      1  10.81        1
1     4         South of Central - Central Highlands             1            7      1       4.73    1

1     6       1Mekong Delta                                     I            51      1  34.46        1
1             (Total                                             1          148      1 100.00        1
     Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007

     68.        From Table 2.5 it is apparent that the subprojects in this sector are concentrated
     in the Red River and the Mekong River Deltas, where the water environment is
     suitable for breeding of aqua products of saline, brackish and fresh water. The regions
     of the North and the South of Central Vietnam are only suitable for saline fish and
     shrimp culture, whereas conditions for fresh water aquaculture are limited. In contrast,

     Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                  40

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                              July 2007


in the South of Central Vietnam, the subprojects of fishing have good developing
conditions.

2.2.2. Subprojects in Animal Husbandry

69.    The animal husbandry sector contains 132 visited and assessed subprojects. The
popular models are: breeding pig, breeding chicken in industrial scale, and breeding
cow. The numbers of subprojects as grouped in regions are shown in Table 2.6.

                    Table 2.6. Subprojects of the husbandry sector


No.                          Region


  1    Mountainous Midland in the North

  2    Red River Delta

  3    North of Central
pp




 4     South of Central - Central Highland                                 3         2.27

  5    Northeast Mekong                                                   30        22.73

 6     Mekong Delta                                                       19        14.39

       Total                                                             132      100.00

Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.

70.    Table 2.6 shows that the subprojects in this sector are concentrated in three
regions, namely the Red River Delta, the Northern          - Mountainous Midland and the
Northeast Mekong Region. The subprojects of breeding pig and chicken usually
coordinate with breeding of duck and fish and gardening in VAC (garden - pond - cum
animal cage) model. In such model, subproject owners reuse animal refuse for growing
fish and cultivation.

2.2.3. Subprojects in Agriculture

71.    The agricultural sector includes 43 subprojects investigated and assessed. The
numbers of subprojects as grouped in the regions are shown in Table 2.7.

            Table 2.7. Subprojects in the agriculture and irrigation sector

                                                                          Subprojects
No.                          Region
                                                                   Number           YO

  1    Northern Mountainous Midland                                      12        27.91

  2    Red bver Delta                                                     0         0.00

  3    North of Central                                                  11        25.58

  4    South of Central - Central Highland                                3         6.98

  5    Northeast Mekong                                                   2         4.65

  6    Mekong Delta                                                      15        34.88

       Total                                                             43       100.00

Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              41

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                               July 2007


 72.     Table 2.7 shows that the subprojects of this sector are mainly concentrated in
 three regions, namely the Northern Mountainous Midlands, North of Central Vietnam
 and the Mekong Delta. The subprojects in the regions of North of Central Vietnam and
 Northern Mountainous Midlands have been developed in the model of VAC: forestry -
 husbandry and cum fish culture. Meanwhile, the subprojects in the Mekong Delta have
 invested money in rice fields and orchards.

 2.2.4. Subprojects in Industry and Small Scale Industry

 73.     The industry and small scale industry sector include 108 subprojects
 investigated and assessed. The numbers of subprojects as grouped in regions are
 shown in Table 2.8.

               Table 2.8. Subprojects of the industry and small industry

                                                                          Subprojects
  No                         Region
                                                                   Number            YO
---
   1     Northern Mountainous Midland                                     15  7
  2      Red River Delta                                       1          56        51.85

  3      North of Central                                                  4         3.70
1 4      South of Central - Central Highland                               2         1.85

  5      Northeast Mekong                                                 17         15.74     ,
   6     Mekong Delta                                                     14         12.96

         Total                                                           108        100.00

 Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.

 74.     From Table 2.8 it is apparent that the subprojects of this sector are mostly
 concentrated in the Red River Delta. That reflects the actuality that the Red River
 Delta is the most developed zone in term of small industries and villages of traditional
 productions. Subprojects in this region are mainly invested paper recycling, brick
 production, wooden processing, and processing of metallic products. The Northeast
 Mekong Region is also a region of numerous villages of traditional productions of
 brick and tile, ceramics, pottery and paper.

 2.2.5. Projects in Food Processing

 75.     In the sector of food processing, there are only 20 subprojects investigated and
 assessed, accounting for 3.84% of the total. The most common food processing
 patterns include fish sauce, confectionary and aquatic product processing. The
 numbers of subprojects as grouped in the regions are shown in Table 2.9.

                   Table 2.9. Subprojects of the food processing sector

                                                                           Subprojects
                              Region
                                                                     Number
1  1    1Northern Mountainous Midland                                      0      1   0.00      1
   2     Red River Delta                                                   2         10.00



 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)               42

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
        -                                                                             July 2007

                                                                                                   --
   3     North of Central                                                  2         10.00
I  4    (South of Central- Central Highland                     1          3      1  15.00-1
      I                                                         I               I

   5     Northeast Mekong                                                  2         10.00
I  6  1  Mekong Delta                                           I         11    I    55.00    1
1     1  Total

 Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.

 76.     Table 2.9 shows that the subprojects of this sector are mainly concentrated in
 the Mekong Delta where is the largest region of fishery, rice fields and orchards. In
 other regions, there are very few subprojects of this sector (only 0 -3 subprojects per
 region).

 2.2.6. Subprojects in Trade and Service

 77.     In the trade and service sector, 47 subprojects are investigated and assessed,
 accounting for 9.02% of the total. Main kinds of trade and service are trading in hels,
 rice, foodstuffs, restaurants and motorcycle repair. The numbers of subprojects as
 grouped in the regions are shown in Table 2.10.

                 Table 2.10. Subprojects of the trade and service sector

                                                                          Subprojects
 No.                         Region
                                                                   Number            YO

   1     Northern Mountainous Midland                                      9         19.15

   2     Red River Delta                                                   1         2.13

   3     North of Central                                                  8         17.02

   4     South of Central- Central Highland                                3          6.38

   5     Northeast Mekong                                                  4.         8.51

   6     Mekong Delta                                                     22         46.81

         Total                                                            47        100.00

 Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.


 78.     It may be seen in Table 2.10 that the subprojects of this sector are mostly
 concentrated in the Mekong Delta (with 22 subprojects accounting for 46.81% of total
 numbers of subprojects in trade and services of the country). Northern Mountainous
 Midlands and North of Central Regions also have many subprojects in this sector.

 2.2.7. Subprojects in Transport and Construction

 79.     This sector includes 23 subprojects investigated and assessed in term of
 environmental impacts. The numbers of subprojects as grouped in the regions are
 shown in Table 2.11.


 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              43

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                                      Jury 2007


           Table 2.11. Subprojects of the transport and construction sector
1                                                                        Subprojects
 No.                         Region

1  1  I  ort them ~ountainousMidland
1                                                            I
  2     1Red River Delta                                                   3         1     13.04      1
1 3      North of Central

  4      South of Central - Central Highland                               4               17.39      1

) 6      Mekong Delta                                        1                              0.00      1
1       1Total                                               1            23         1   100.00       1
 Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.

 80.     Table 2.11 shows that the subprojects of this sector are mostly concentrated in
 the region of Northern Mountainous Midlands, which accounts for 56.52% (with 13
 subprojects). Owners of the subprojects got loans for buying vehicles or construction
 machines.

 2.3. COMMON CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SUBPROJECTS

 2.3.1. Distribution

     Adjacency to residential areas

 81.     Many investigated subprojects are near or adjacent to or far from residential
 areas of communes or towns. The subprojects of the sectors such as fishery, husbandry
 and agriculture are usually located far from residential areas. In contrast, the
 subprojects the sectors such as trade, service, industry and small industry are near or
 mixed with residential areas, or even at centers of towns. The characteristic
 distributions of subprojects relation with adjacency to residential areas in zones are
 shown in Table 2.12.

             Table 2.12. Characteristic distributions of selected subprojects

                                                                    Far from a populated area
                                 Near a populated area (*)


               Regions
                             1                                               )                         (
                               Number     I                        Number                   /
                                              sub-      zone                         sub-     Zone
                                            projects                            1projects   I          I
         Northern                                        81.63
         Mountainous
         Midland

         Red River Delta             61 1    11.71       41.22

         North of Central            32    1 6.14        56.14


                                                                                         - -    -

 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                     44

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                                  Jufy2007
                                                                             1
   4   South of Central -           20      3.84        80.00           5      0.96
       Central Highland

   5   Northeast Mekong
-
   6   Mekong Delta                 97      18.62       73.48          35      6.72      26.52

       Total                      316       60.65                     205     39.35

Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.
Note: (*) Near or in apopulated area: The subproject is less than 200 mfrom the edge
of a populated area of a commune or town;far from apopulated area: The subproject
is more than 200 mfrom the edge of a populated area of a commune or town.

82.    Table 2.12 shows that in the whole regions number of the subprojects located in
or closely to residential areas occupy 60.65% of the total visited ones. This indicated
the potential impacts of the subprojects to human health and local culture.

83.    Considering ecological - economic regions, the region with more than 70%
subprojects near a populated area include Northern Mountainous Midlands, South of
Central - Highlands and the Mekong Delta. Nevertheless, negative impacts of
subprojects are not only dependent on their locations. The critical factors of
environmental impacts are what the business line and the subproject ability of
environmental management are. Environmental impacts of the subprojects are given in
Chapter Three.

   Adjacency to cultural works, historical, religious sites

84.    There are 37 subprojects (7.10% of the total investigated subprojects) near
historic works, pagodas, cultural and tourist sites, medical stations, government
offices, etc. Those subprojects are grouped in accordance with the ecological -
economic regions as follows (Table 2.13).

     Table 2.13. Adjacency of subprojects to cultural, historical, religious sites

                                            Near a cultural,              Far from a cultural,

No.               Region                historical, religious sites      historical, religious sites

                                         Number              YO           Number            %

 1    Northern Mountainous                      0            0.00               98         18.81
     Midland

 2   Red River Delta                            0            0.00             148          28.41

 3   North of Central                           1            0.19               56         10.75

 4    South of Central - Central                0            0.00               25          4.80
      Highland

 5    Northeast Mekong                        19             3.65               42          8.06

 6    Mekong Delta                            17             3.26              115         22.07

      Total                                   37             7.10             484          92.90

Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                 45

SRFP Environmentaf Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                                  July 2007


Notes: "Near":within 300 m ;"Far":over 300 mfrom the site.

85.      The subprojects located near cultural and historic works and tourist sites with
possibly environmental impacts in the East of South Vietnam are shown in Appendix
2.2. They are of sectors such as productions of ceramics, animal husbandry, and
trading in fuels.

    Adjacence to ecologically sensitive areas

86.      An ecologically sensitive zone is the zone with ecosystems such as coastal
wetland, natural reserves, national parks, biosphere reserves, and primeval forests.
Ecologically sensitive zones have high value of biodiversity but they are extremely
sensitive to environmental impacts due to internal or external factors in which human
impacts are the main reasons.

87.      During the fiels survey 26 subprojects (4.99% of the total) adjacent to an
ecologically sensitive zone were found with 18 subprojects in Mekong Delta River
accounted for 69.23%. Classification of those subprojects by the ecological economic
regions is shown in Table 2.14.

Table 2.14. Distribution of subprojects in relation with ecologically sensitive zones

                                                                              Far from an
                                             Near an ecologically
                                                                          ecologically sensitive
                     Region                      sensitive zone
                                                                                  zone
                                           1                            1Number                  I
                                                    1
                                             Number            %                         O h

         Northern Mountainous
         Midland
1  2    1Red River Delta                   1          0        0.00           148       28.41        1
r 3-1                                      1               1             1           1               1
                             - -

         North of Central                             4        0.77            53        10.17

   4    1South of Central - Central                   0
         Highland

   5     Northeast Mekong                             0

   6     Mekong Delta                               18
I       ITotal                             I        26     1   4.99           495    1   95.01        1
               -              - -


 Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.

 88.     Location of subprojects is important factor influencing to the local natural and
 social environment. However, with proper environmental management and pollution
 control the potential impacts may be minimized to acceptable level (See Chapter Three
 and Five).

 2.3.2. Classification of Subprojects by Risk Levels

 89.     The list of those subprojects is given in Annex 2.1.Distribution of the high risk
 subprojects by the ecological economic regions is shown in Table 2.15 and Figure 2.4.

   Table 2.15. Synthesis of high-risk subprojects in ecological -economic regions

  No.                      Region                           Number           Percentage (%)


 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                 46

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                               July 2007


   1    Northern Mountainous Midlands

   2    Red River Delta

   3    North of Central

   4    South of Central - Central Highland

   5    Northeast Mekong                                         17              15.32

  6     Mekong Delta                                             18              16.22

        Total                                                 111              100.00

Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.


                                                             NMM Region


 15.32%          16.22%                14.41%            IRRRegion


                                                             NCRegion

   Q                                                         9CRegion

                                                         E NEM Region
                                          31.53%
        17.12%             5.41%
                                                             MD Region


Figure. 2.4. Percentages of high-risk subprojects in ecological - economic regions

90.    Appendix 2.1 and Table 2.15 indicate that the high-risk subprojects are mostly
concentrated in the Red River Delta (31.53% of high-risk subprojects), followed by
those in the South of Central Region, Mekong Delta, Northeast Mekong and Northern
Mountainous Midland Regions. In the North of Central Region number of high risk
subprojects is smallest.

91.    Distribution of the high risk subprojects by economic sectors (Table 2.16 and
Figure 2.5) shows that:

   + Number of the high risk subprojects is highest in industry and small industry (58
       subprojects, occupying 52.25% of the total), in which sub-sectors of paper
       recycling, ice, plastic, wooden processing and brick production have high
       number of high risk subprojects.
   + The agricultural sector does not have a high risk subproject


           Table 2.16. Synthesis of the high risk subprojects by economic sectors

  No                   Economic sector                       Number          Percentage (%)

   1       Fishery                                                12               10.81

   2       Animal Husbandry                                       22               19.82

   3       Agriculture                                              0               0.00


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              47

 SRFP - Environmental Assessment Repori (Final)


    4      Industry - Small Industry                               58                 52.25
1                                                                                                 I
    5     1Food Processing                              I           3         I        2.70
I   6      Trade                                        I           9        I         8.11       I
    7      Transport - Construction                                 7                  6.31

           Total                                                  111                100.00
                -                            -


 Source: Synthesisfrom questionnaire, VESDI,April 2007


                                                                   Fishery

                                                                   Anirral Husbandry

                                                                 17Agriculture

                                                                 17Lndustry- SmllIndustry

                                                                   Food Processing

                                                                 17Trade
                                                                IHTransport- Construction 1

        Figure 2.5. Percentage of the high risk subprojects by economic sectors

 92.    The subprojects of "high risk" group indicated above were determined by the
 classification criteria in Section 1.6.1(Chapter One). However from the results of the
 field surveys there are only 42 subprojects in a total of 111 "high risk" projects cause
 rather environmental impacts. This figure shows that if the Environmental Guidelines
 are strictly complied the "high risk" projects may minimize the impacts to the
 acceptable levels.

 2.4. CULTURAL AND ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECT
 OWNERS

 93.     Education level and economic conditions are important not only for economic
 development but also for environmental management and integration of environmental
 protection with economic growth. Therefore, in this study, the Consultant took into
 account details of cultural and economic characteristics of subproject owners.

 2.4.1. Education

 94.     The education levels of 521 subproject owners which have been investigated
 are classified by ecological economic zones are given in Table 2.17. All subproject
 owners   - borrowers are literate. The percentages of borrowers with low, medium and
 high education levels are 2.69%, 66.41% and 30,90%, respectively (Figure 2.6)

                    Table 2.17. Education levels of subproject owners
                             in the ecological economic regions
                                                -
                                                           I
                                                                               Yo
                 Education level               Number                              I
                                                            For each zone            For total

 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                48

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                                 July 2007


   1       Low (under & class 5)                  14                                 2.69
                                           I              I                      I

           Northern - Mountainous
 I 1.1     Midlands                        I       2      I          2.00      1     0.38     1
I  1.2    1Red River Delta                 I                          1.00       1   0.38     I
I  1.3    1North of Central               1        0     I           0.00        1   0.00     I
           South of Central  -  Central    1


I 1.6     1Mekong Delta                   I        8    1            6.06      I     1.54     I
   2       Medium (class 6-12)                  346                                 66.41

           Northern - Mountainous
  2.1      Midland                                55                56.00           10.56

  2.2      Red River Delta                      120                 81.OO           23.03

  2.3      North of Central                       30                52.63            5.76

           South of Central - Central
  2.4      Highland                               16                64.00            3.07

  2.5      Northeast Mekong                      27                44.30             5.18
pppp




  2.6      Mekong Delta                           98                74.24           18.81

           High (high school
   3       graduate, university)                161                                 30.90

           Northern - Mountainous
  3.1      Midlands                              41                42.00             7.87

  3.2      Red River Delta                        26                18.00            4.99

  3.3      North of Central                       27               47.37             5.18

           South of Central  -  Central
  3.4      Highland                                9                36.00            1.73

  3.5      Northeast Mekong                       32                52.40            6.14

  3.6      Mekong Delta                           26                19.70            4.99

Source: Synthesis from Questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                49

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                              July 2007


         I




                                                                         "1  Medium

                                                                             High




         Figure. 2.6. Percentages of education levels of subproject owners


95.    In this classification, low education level means lower than class 5 inclusive,
medium means classes 6 to 12 (in Vietnam there are 12 classes in schools) and high
means higher than class 12 exclusive (university andlor high school graduate
graduated).

96.    From Table 2.17, it is possible to comment as follows:

       (i) In general, subproject owners' education levels are higher than the average
of these communes since they are households of good capability of production                -
trading in rural areas and education is the key for them to reach better economic
development than that of other households in the same communes.

       (ii) Only 14 subprojects (2.69% of the total) have low education levels, of
which up to 8 out of 14 households in the Mekong Delta where education is the worst
when comparing with other regions in Vietnam.

       (iii) There are 161 subproject owners with education levels higher than class 12.
Considering ecological - economic regions, the Northern Mountainous, Midlands
North of Central, South of Central - Central Highlands and Northeast Mekong have
more than 35% of subproject owners of advanced education levels. In the Red River
Delta and the Mekong Delta, subproject owners of advanced education account to
20%. In the North East Mekong Region, subproject owners of high education account
for more than 52% (Figure. 2.7).

        (iv) Subproject owners of medium education level (classes 5 to 12) are
dominant (346 subprojects, accounting for 66.41%) (Figure. 2.8). In various
ecological - economic regions, those subproject owners account more than 44% with
the highest percent (81% of subprojects in the region of the Red River Delta with 120
subprojects).

97.    As such, subproject owners with medium to high educations make up 97.31%
of subprojects investigated (5071521). It is assessed by the investigation team that
subprojects of at least medium educations are usually better aware of and better
implement environmental protection in association with production and trading. There
are however some cases that subproject owners of low educations know how to
accumulate experiences and practical knowledge from households nearby as well as
strictly comply with environmental regulations then they reach high efficiency of
pollution control in subprojects and in the surroundings. In contrast, some subproject


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              50

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                                  Jury 2007
                                                                                                     -
owners with high education level pay most attention to profit so they have not been
good at environmental protection (especially in Industry and Small Scale Industry).



             Percentage
                 ("4
             60 1
                                                           52.40




                                                                             Region

            I       NMM              RR     NC     SC-CH    NEM      MD                1

        Figure. 2.7. Percentage of subproject owners of advanced education
                                     in ecological - economic regions

             Percentage
                 ("4
              90  -
                                     81.OO
              80 -

              70 -

              60 - 56.00



              4 0 -   Ill::;
                      ..:..
                      ......,
              3 0 -   ;:;:;:...
                      ....
                      ....... .
                              .....
              20  -   : ; i ; j j
                      ......
                        .:.:.
               l o 7  i..:; ; ; ; ;
                      ,.,.::.
                      .......                                                 Region
           ~         NMM              RR      NC     SC-CH    NEM      MD               ~
        Figure. 2.8. Percentage of subproject owners of medium education
                                     in ecological - economic regions

98.    As such, it is apparent from the statistics of education levels that most
subproject owners is able to adsorb environmental knowledge if they are guided in
details by BIDV or PFIs by means of training, teaching, leaflets, and the like.

I

2.4.2. Economic Conditions

99.    Results from surveys of income of 521 subprojects owners (most of subprojects
are owned by a household) in ecological - economic regions are tabulated in Table



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                  5 1

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
       -                                                                                  July 2007


2.18 and Figure. 2.8. Interviews showed that most subprojects owners are able to pay
profits and clear debts with the banks within prescribed terms.

   Table 2.18. Income of subprojects (by households) in ecological economic zones
                                                                                -


   No.         Income (million VND)


     1       Very low (< 1 million)                     41                                   7.87

             Northern - Mountainous
)   1.1 Midlands
          1                                   i         27 j               28.00    1        5.18   1
                                                                                                   1
I        I                                                                        I
1   1.2 Red River Delta
          1                          5 ( 1                                  3.40             0.96
)   1.3 (    North of Central
 I                                                         I                        1              1
          1                                                                                         /
,          I South of Central    -   Central 1
    1.4 Highland                               1         0  (               0.00    1        0.00
 1        I                                    I            I                       I
    1.5 Northeast Mekong
          1                                    I         0  1               0.00    1        0.00   1
 1  1.6 Mekong Delta
          )
 1                                             1
     2     1 Low (1 to 2 million)                       90  1
          I Northern  - Mountainous
 1  2.1    1 Midland                           I        13  1              13.00 )           2.50 )

    2.2      Red River Delta
                 -           -    -                 - - -                   -


    2.3      North of Central                           22 1               38.60             4.22

             South of Central - Central
    2.4      Highland                                    0                  0.00             0.00
  -ppp
  1 2.5      Northeast Mekong                            1                   1.60            0.19      1

  (  3      1Medium (2 to 10 million)           1     212    1                       1     40.69 1
            (Northern Mountainous
                      -                         1            1
  ( 3.1      Midland                            1       27    1            27.00     1       5.18 (
  1 3.2     1Red River Delta

  ( 3.3      North of Central
  1          South of Central    I   ~ e n t r q
    3.4 Highland                                1
  I

  1 3.5 Northeast Mekong
            1                                   I       26 (
  1 3.6     1Mekong Delta

     4       High (> 10 million)                      178                                   34.17
                                                                                     I
                                                                                                         ~
             Northern - Mountainous
    4.1      Midland                                    31                 32.00              5.95


   Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                 52

SRFP Environmental Assessment Reporl (Final)
     -                                                                           July 200 7


 4.2    Red River Delta                              45                 30.40       8.64

 4.3    North of Central                             10                 17.54       1.92

        South of Central - Central
 4.4    Highland                                      7                 28.00       1.34

 4.5    North East Mekong                            34                 55.80       6.53

 4.6    Mekong Delta                                 51                 38.64       9.79

Source: Synthesisfrom Questionnaires, VESDI,April 2007.
Note: in April 2007: 1USD 16,020 W D
                             -


                                                     7.87%




                                                      40.69%



                O < l mil       1-2mil          0 2 - 10mil       q> 10milVND


        Figure. 2.9. Income of subprojects in ecological economic regions
                                                                  -
100. Table 2.18 shows that 40.69% of the 521 visited subprojects owners have
medium income (2 - 10 mil VNDImonth), 34.17% the subprojects owners have high
income (> 10 mil VNDImonth) and only 7.87% of the subproject owners have very
low income (< 1 millmonth). This means that the incomes of the subproject owners are
higher than the average incomes of local households. By interviewing various of
subproject owners in the medium and large sized animal husbandry have profits of
some hundreds mil of VNDIyear.

101. As shown in Table 2.18, the Northern - Mountainous Midland Region has as
high as 28% of subprojects with low income (less than 1 million VND). Next is North
of Central Region (7.02%) where has the highest proportion of poor households in
Vietnam. The South of Central - Central Highland and the Northeast Mekong Regions
have no subproject with low income. The highest number of the high income
subprojects is found in the Northeast Mekong Region. Currently, that is also the region
of the highest per capita income in Vietnam. In all regions, subproject owners with
high income account for more than 17%.

102. The high income of subprojects is resulted from right collection of productions
to invest, good organization, management and marketing, stable outlet, and favorable
natural and socio-economic conditions, etc. Most of those subprojects have at least
medium education. If the Environmental Protection Law is complied, those
subprojects usually better take pollution control measures than other subprojects

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          53

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                              2007


Thank to better financial conditions, they can apply measures to mitigate negative
impacts on the environment. In contrast, many other subprojects, which are well aware
of environmental protection, are financially unable to take environmental pollution
control measures.

2.5. CHARACTERISTICSOF PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

2.5.1. List and Locations of the Visited PFIs

103. In this study, the Consultant (VESDI) investigated and assessed the compliance
with the Environmental Guidelines with respect to 21 (PFIs) by means of meetings
and interviews (with questionnaires) with 135 credit officers thereof. The number of
interviewed credit officers is almost 3 times as high as requested by BIDV. The list of
the interviewed credit officers is given in Annex 2.3. The list and addresses of PFIs are
shown in Table 2.19.

2.5.2. Outline of PFIs' Environmental Management Organizations

104. Most PFIs are commercial banks. Except for the Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (AgriBank) and the People Credit Fund, which are state-run banks
established for tens of years, other PFIs are joint stock banks established within recent
15 years.

105. Since the utmost purpose of commercial banks are profits from trading in
money, the matter of integration between loans for business development and
environmental protection was not taken into account before receiving the credit from
the SRFP. Therefore, in the organizations of the PFI there is no division charged of
environmental management (this is really unnecessary with a commercial bank). Only
afier BIDV introduced the project, those PFI took it into account and signed the
Commitment in Environmental Protection with the subprojects of the class of "Needed
Environmental Commitment" according to the BIDV's Classification (Guidelines
N-1023/HD-BIDVand 2749/HD-SGD3).

106. The compliance with the guidelines and regulations on environmental
protection by PFIs will be assessed in Chapter Three from results of interviews with
135 credit officers of those 21 PFIs.

2.6. STATISTICS OF THE SELECTED SUBPROJECTSIN ECONOMIC SECTORS
AND IN PFIs

107.   The selected subprojects in term of PFIs and economic sector in the SRFP are
shown in Table 1.2 (Chapter One). From Table 1.2 some important comments may be
given.

(i) Agribank has 269 selected subprojects (51.63% of the total selected subprojects).
     This Bank has also greatest number of the subprojects (91,690) in the total
     subprojects (126,202) of the SRFP.

(ii) Percentage of the subprojects causing "medium impact" (Chapter Four) of the
     industry-small scale industry sector is highest: in the total "medium impact"
     subprojects (31/42) in the selected 521 subprojects. However, this sector occupies
     only 0.42% of the total number of the subprojects in the SRFP. Therefore,
     environmental impacts caused by this sector contribute only a small portion in the
     SRFP.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          54

SRFP Environmental Assessment Repot? (Final)
      -                                                                          July 200 7


(iii) Although proportion of systematic random selected subprojects in each PFI is not
     identical with total number of subprojects in respective PFI, in general, PFIs with
     high number of subprojects in the SRFP also have high number of selected
     subprojects, for example Agribank, Mekong Housing Bank, A-Chau Bank, Saigon
     IncomBank, Dong-A Bank etc, and vice-versa.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           55

SRFP - Environmental Assessment Report                                                                              May 2007


                                       Table 2.19. List of interviewed PFIs in March -April 2007

No                  PFIs and Branch                    Province                                       Address
  1   Bankfor Agriculture and Rural Development (Agribank)
 1.1  Chauthanh District                               Angiang         Ancau Town, Chauthanh District
1.2   Anphu District                                                   472 Thoai Ngoc Hau, Anphu Town
1.3   Chomoi District                                                  10 Leloi, Chomoi District
1.4   Tinhbien District                                                Hoathuan, Nhabang, Tinhbien District
1.5   Thoaison District                                                Nuisap Town, Thoaison District
1.6   Chaudoc Township                                                 4 - 5 Quangtrung, Chaudoc Township
1.7   Lucnam District                                  Bacgiang        Lucnam Town
1.8   Hiephoa District                                                 Block 2, Thang Town, Hiephoa District
1.9   Langgiang District                                               Voi Town, Langgiang District
1.10 Tanyen District                                                   Caothuong, Tanyen District
1.11 Bacgiang City                                                     Nguyen Thi Luu Road - Bacgiang City
1.12 Vietyen District                                                  Bichdong, Vietyen District
1.13 Yendung District                                                  Neo Town, Yendung District
1.14 XuonggiangDistrict                                                No 22 Mydo Road, Bacgiang City
1.15 Hongdan District                                  Baclieu         Block 11,Noioa, Ngandua, Hongdan District
1.16 Luongtai District                                 Bacninh         Thua Town, Luongtai District
1.17 Thuanthanh District                                               Dongcoi, Ho Town, Thuanthanh District
1.18 Bacninh Township                                                  NguyenDu, Ninhxa, Bacninh Township
1.19 Quevo District                                                    Phomoi, Quevo, Quevo District
1.20 Giabinh District                                                  Phonui, Langngam, Giabinh District
1.21 Yenphong District                                                 Cho Town, Yenphong
   -


1.22 Tiendu District                                                   Tiendu, Tiendu District
1.23 Binhluc District                                   Hanam          Binhmy Town, Binhluc District
1.24 Duytien District                                                  Hoamac Town, Duytien District
1.25 Kimbang District                                                  Que Town, Kimbang District
1.26 Lynhan District                                                   Vinhtru Town, Lynhan District


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                              56

LS                                                                     ( I ~ s ~ A )
                                                                                 ajnj!jsuI juamdolaaaa alqeu!ajsng put! juamuoqAu3 meuja!A :jua#nsuoD


                                                              &!a ~e8uKuenO                                                        43!~8muen0 SS'I
                                                            vgs!a uosyu!8                                                        13u1s!a uosyu!8         9s'I
                                                             13gs!a e!y8un~                                                       )jws!a e!y%un~ ES' I
                413! E ~ & u E ~ ( )'0~a8UnH UVIL 96I                a3U!AOId                                                            !e8&uen()           I
                                                              13gs!a quyuos                                                        13upayuy~uos          IS' I
                                                         vgs!a yueye!yK~                                                      131ys!a ~U"Y~!'I~N os'I
                                                            p g s g 8uoqe1~         re8uKuent)
                                                                                                                              -- 134s!a K U O ~ ~ J L 69`I
                                                              w s ! a !oqw!x                                                       w s ! a r o s u g sv.I
                                                            13u1s!a Anylua~                                                                 Any1ua~ LP' I
                                                          13gs!a uos8uon7                                                                  uos8uon~      99-I
                                      4 3rlu!qeo~'1eurwey3 p dnoq                                                                          Jem'JeY3      SP'I
                         vgs!a 3elue~'UMOL uayy8uon~E 43018                          yu!qeo~                                                   ~ B I U ~ L
                                                                                                                                                         PP'I
                                               1 3 ~ 1 ~rCyn.1.' ~ ~ 0 .A~n.1.
                                                           1 ~ 1           1 .                                                         a        L        EP'I
                    13ulsraua!uryueyL        'UMOL      u a ! q u e u 'E 43018                                                13gs!a ua!wyueu           -ZP-I
                                                                                             -
                                           v g s r a 301e!~)'UMOL ~oIB!~)                                                            v g s r a 301~19    IPT
                13gs!a 8ue!8qu!8      'UMOL    qesax    ' O B ~
                                                              n 8 meyd 001
                                                                     ~                                                         v g s r a 8ue!8yu!a       09' I
                                pgs!a Bue!8ure3 'Kuonr~ue~'ay8oyd                                                              13Uls!a Kue!8ure=) 65'I
                                               13gS!a Y3eSUIBN 'g3on()                                                           l3!4S!a   Y3eSweN 8E'I
                                      I ~ U I SyI u~e y w g 'UMOL !ey~nyd                                                      v g s r a y~eyau!)~       LE'I
                             13gs!a    ~ U V ! ~ ~ U ! N
                                                       'UMOL ~UB!KYU!N      *)I     8uonp!e~                                  13gs!a Kue!Kyu!~ 9c.1
                                    )3gs!a uenxry8~'ueuenx 'S 73018                                                             13~1s!auvnx!@~ SE'I
                                         ~ a g s ! a3olue3 ' UMOL 3 0 1 ~ ~ 3                                                       mgya      3 0 1 ~ ~ 3PE'I
                                13U)S!a  YU![~UOH ' ~ ~ Y S U M O L  YU![~UOH                                                ~ ! ~ S U M O L
                                                                                                                                           yu!~Suo~          I
                                         l3u)s!a oyvna          'UMOL  oy~gna                                                                 '"413nG ZE' I
                                                            13u~s!aeyy3ey~                                                       ~ u~ Y~3Ye a        u    I E.I
                                                          13gs!a uaAnxuroa                                                    pgs!a uaAnxwo3             OE-I
                                     UMOL  y u ~ ' pe e~o ~8una Kuea 69                                                          ~ ! ~ S U M O L
                                                                                                                                               YU!I~H    62'1
                                                 UMOJ,    ayy8uon~ 7301s                                                                   ayyzuong      g f i




LOOZ L ~ M I                                                                                                     ?rodaxluaurssassv lvluauruor!nug      -djxs

8S                                                                           ( ~ ( I s ~ Aajnj!jsuI juamdola~aaaIqeu!ejsng pua juaruuo~!~u3meuja!A :juajlnsuoa
                                                                                           )




t                                          413oy1ue3'war?       U ~ An ~ y 3v sz 'ON I         oy1ue3                              ~  3    u    e    . oy1ue31Z.pl
                                                                                                                                                        w
                                13u)s!a 9.oN ' p l " ~Z I'ON ' ~ u o ~ I u ~ A6LZ~'ON
                                                                               ~     N       413N3H                                          ~ ~ U ~ J E I
                                                                                                                                                      we~nyd      I 'P
                                                                                           -

                                                                                                                  yuug y 3 0 ~I - U ? O ~
                                                                                                                                        jsug Suoa-2uonyd           p
                                                                                                                             -
            UMOJ,   e!8y3ex ' p l e ueA queyL y u ! ~'!eu 8 u o weyd pp
                                       ~                                ~          -ON       8ue!8ua!->1                                    y ~ u e e18y~ex
                                                                                                                                                      ~ a        2 ' ~
                                                                                                                                            -

                    UMOJ,    er8qz~ex' p l e ~! o ~ q u '8~8uey~1,8uewy3e3 1 'ON
                                                        !                    v               8ue!8ua!x                                            uo!13esue~~,    I .f
                                                                                             ('lung Buo7-uagf) y3ojs -1ulof 1qt~raururo3]urns 2uo]ua!~
                                     ~ ~ U I S'ON~'PJ~M 'ON' U ~ LU ~ AOA ZPP
                                             c    I          s                               4r3N ~ H                                      y3uela E 13u)s!a      9.2
                                     UMOJ, na!13~8'VI 'ONP ~ O X   I"UO!~~N 'PIAPE     I       na!13ea                                       y3ue.1~narpea       s.2
                  ~ ! ~ S U M O J ,
                                 er8y3o~' p l e u~ e y~u e u uaAn2~'nyduer~,26I              8uor8ua!x                                    y ~ u e %ue!8ua!)1[
                                                                                                                                                   ~ a           9.2
                          UMOJ,    ~ o w n e p 'n pie^ 8uonz~nyd'yuq o a yu!a s1
                                                  ~                                         8uonpqu!a                                   y ~ u e r 8uona q u g
                                                                                                                                                  a              c.2
                                                      413oy~ue3'8uon~8 u n 8s       ~          oylue3                                        Y3Ue-Woq1U"3        2.2
                                          13u)s!a uenyunyd 'nn? Sues ueyd OEI               413N ~ H                                              asnoy-qn13     I'Z
                                                                                                    (yuvg v-8uoa) y ~ o j-ju!of ]qt~raururo3u pp- urajsug
                                                                                                                         s                                         z
                                   pu)s!a uarinxqu!~'UMOJ,     ~ U E ~ ~ U O ~ H
                                                                            '1 7301~                                                     13u)sra qAnxqu!a        89.I
                                                     pu)s!a 3e1ua~'UMOL 3 a [ u a ~                                                          13ys!a 3 ~ 1 ~~ 3 ~   9 ' 1
                                             13u)sra 8 ~ 0 r q q u'UMOJ,
                                                                   r ~    ~LIOIIJ~U!A                                                              8 u 0 w ~ u ! ~99'1




                                       13u)s!a uenxoy~'UMOL uenxoy_~'1 3301~                 eoyyuey~                                     13u)s!a u e n x o ~ 6s' 1
                        413uaAn8u!eu6gSuew8uowqz~e3peox 01laqwnN                            uaAnSu!ey~                                           y3uell4!3       8 E
   ~ ~ S U M O ~U!UABJ,
               J ,         - E 13ys!a - g 8uew 8uewy3e3 ggp :yuea a3u!~oid                    yu!uA~~,                                               YU!UAVL    LS'I
                                        UMOL    n a q 8 u o ~peox SUOJ,u e y uei~,
                                                            -                   ~           yu!&uen()                                    P ~ I S !nag2uoa
                                                                                                                                                    ~           9s-I
                                       ssaJPPv                                               aan!aoJa                    q3nE-W PnE sIdd                         ON

 LOOZ kern                                                                                                              p o d a ~luaurssassv]njuauruor~~uz~d ~ s
                                                                                                                                                             -d

 SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report                                                                                              May 2007

INo     1               PPIs and Branch                 Province                                       Address
  6      Nam-A Joint- Stock Bank
 6.1      Club-house                                    HCM City       97 Bis Hamnghi, No. 1 District, Hochiminh City
 6.2      Binhdinh Branch                               Binhdinh        SR18 - SR19 - Quynhon Trade Central - No. 7 Nguyen Tat Thanh,



1 7     1 Dai-A Commercial J




  8       Military Joint- Stock Bank
 8.1      Club-house                                     Hanoi         No.3 Lieugiai Road, Badinh District, Hanoi
  8.2     Dienbienphu                                    Hanoi         No. 28 Dienbienphu Street, Badinh District, Hanoi
  9       Saigon Industrial-Commercial Joint- Stock Bank
 9.1      Cantho Branch                                  Cantho        No. 1 Ly Tu Trong, Cantho City
  9.2     Angiang Branch                                Angiang        No. 31312Tran Hung Dao, Mylong Ward, Longxuyen City
  9.3     Baclieu Branch                                 Baclieu        No. 35A Batrieu, Baclieu Township
  10      Hanoi Housing Commercial Joint- Stock Bank
 10.1 Hoabinh Branch                                    Hoabinh         Luongson Town, Luongson District
 10.2 Bacninh Branch                                    Bacninh         No. 119-Tranphu, Tuson, Bacninh Province
  11      Phuong-Nam Commercial Joint- Stock Bank
 11.1 Cantho Branch                                      Cantho         Cantho City
 11.2 Angiang Branch                                    Angiang         Longxuyen City
  12      Nhan-Ai Commercial Joint- Stock Bank
          Cantho Branch                                  Cantho         No. 138,312Road, Hungloi Ward, Cantho City

  13      VietnamInternational Bank (VIB)
 13.1 Vinhphuc VIB Branch                               Vinhphuc        No. 69 Melinh Road, Lienbao Ward, Vinhyen Town


 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                            59

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report
      -                                                                                                                                May 2007


No   F              PFIs and Branch
13.2 Quangninh VIB Branch                              Quangninh       No.88 Le Thanh Tong, Honggai
13.3 Haiduong VIB Branch                               Haiduong        1 13Pham Ngti LZo, Thanh phB Hai Duong
13.4 No.5 District VIB Branch                          HCM City        No. 97 Nguyentrai, No.2 Ward ,No.5 District
13.5 Hochiminh City VIB Branch                         HCM City        No.92 Nam Ky Khoi Nghia, No. 1District
 14    WesternRural Bank Joint- Stock Trade
      Cantho Branch                                     Cantho         No. 127 Ly Tu Trong, Cantho City
 15 Saigon Thuong-Tin Commercial Bank
15.1 Hocmon Branch                                     HCM city        No. 1914A Ly Thuong Kiet, Hocmon Twon
15.2 Cuchu Branch                                      HCM City        Thuong Hamlet, National Road NO. 22, Thonghoi Commune, Cuchi District
15.3 Binhduong Branch                                  Binhduong       No. 431 Binhduong High road, Phucuong Ward, Thu Dau Mot Town
15.4 Dongnai Branch                                    Dongnai         No. 14115National Road No.15, Tamhiep Ward, Bienhoa City
15.5 Dongthap Branch                                   Dongthap        No.43 Ly Thuong Kiet, No. Ward, Caolanh Township
15.6 Angiang Branch                                    Angiang         No. 56B Ton Duc Thang, Mybinh Ward, Longxuyen City
15.7 Cantho Branch                                      Cantho         No.34 A 2, Tranoc 1 Industry Zone, Binhthuy District, Cantho City
15.8 Vinhlong Branch                                   Vinhlong        No. 156Nguyenhue, No.2 Ward, Vinhlong Township
16    People Credit Fund
16.1 Phutho Branch                                      Phutho         No. 1959B- Hung Vuong High Road, Viettri City, Phutho Province
16.2
-   Vinhphuc--                                         Vinhphuc        Ngoquyen Road, Vinhyen Township, Vinhphuc Province
16.3 Baninh Branch                                     Bacninh         National Road No. 18,Tienan Ward, Bacninh Township

-
16.4 Hungyen Branch                                    Hungyen         No.441 Nguyen Van Linh, Hiennam, Hungyen Town
16.5 Haiduong Branch                                   Haiduong        NoSA Bachdang Road, Tranphu Ward, Haiduong City
16.6 Ninhbinh Branch                                   Ninhbinh        Ninhbinh City
-

1 7   A-Chau Commecial Joint- Stock Bank
17.1 Bacninh Branch                                    Bacninh         No.242 Tranphu, Tuson Town, Tuson District
17.2 Binhduong Branch                                 Binhduong        No. 305 Binhduong High Road, Thu Dau Mot Town
17.3 Angiang Branch                                    Angiang         No. 95 Nguyentrai, Longxuyen City
I 8   Mekong Housing Developmental Bank
18.1 Quangninh Branch                                 Quangninh        No. 74 Tran Hung Dao, Halong City
18.2 Haiduong Branch                                   Haiduong        No. 27 Ho Chi Minh High Road, Nguyentrai Ward, Haiduong City


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                                 60

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report
    -                                                                                                                          May 2007


No                PFIs and Branch                     Province                                      Address
18.3 Hatay Branch                                      Hatay         No. 168Quangtrung Street, Quangtrung Ward, Hadong City
18.4 Angiang Branch                                   Angiang        Longxuyen City
     ---
18.5 CanthoBranch                                     Cantho         No. 76 National Road No.91, Omon District, Cantho City

18.6 Dongthap                                         Dongthap       No.01, LC Block 500 house, Caolanh City
 19  VPBank
19.1 Vinhphuc Branch                                  Vinhphuc       No.1 Melinh, Lienbao, Vinhphuc
19.2 Bacgiang Branch                                  Bacgiang       No. 208 Leloi, Bacgiang City
19.3 Quangninh Branch                                Quangninh       No.158Le Thanh Tong, Halong City
19.4 Cantho Branch                                    Cantho         No. 26 - 28 Hoabinh High Road, Ninhkieu Ward, Cantho City

 20  Rachkien Commercial Joint-Stock Bank
     Longan Branch                                    Longan         No.1, Conghoa Town, Canduoc District
-
 21  Myxuyen Commercial Joint-Stock Bank
     Longxuyen Branch                                 Angiang        No.248 Tranhung-Dao, Longxuyen City, Angiang Province
Source: Addresses of the branches of the PFIs areprovided by TCIII - BIDV and determined on site by the Consultants.




Consultant:Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                         61

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                            July 2007



                                    CHAPTER THREE

  ASSESSMENT ON BIDV, PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
    AND SUBPROJECTS WITH RESPECT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE
                          ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES



3.1.  ENVIRONMENTAL            MANAGEMENT            AND     COMPLIANCE        WITH   THE
ENVIRONMENTAL           GUIDELINES       OF     THE    BANK       FOR    INVESTMENT  AND
DEVELOPMENT OF VIETNAM (BIDV)

108. On using the credits of the SRFP, BIDV and PFIs should comply with the laws
and regulations of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam in relation with environmental
protection (as given in Paragraph 1.4.3, Chapter One) and the WB's Safety Policies
(as given in Paragraph 1.4.1, Chapter One).

109. To implement the Vietnamese Laws and WB's Safeguard Policies, BIDV has
issued various Environmental Guidelines. The environmental guidelines of the BIDV
are the instruments that PFIs should implement because they have been prepared based
on the Law on Environmental Protection (1993), Decree 175lCP dated 18 October
1994 by the Government and Circular 49011998lTT- BKHCNMT dated 29 April 1998
by the (former) Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment, which were the
legal documents on environmental protection valid before 01 July 2006 in Vietnam.

110. The main guidelines on environmental protection that the BIDV issued include:

(i) The guidance for "Assessment and Monitoring of Environmental Impacts of the
Subprojects Loaned by the WB - Funded RFPs I and Il" (issued by Official Letter
1023lHD-BIDV dated 11 March 2004). The guidance is consisted of four (4) main
contents:

                I. General regulations

                11. Detailed regulations

                111.Checkup, monitoring and reporting

                IV. Implementation

The guidance is also attached with seven (7) annexes:
    -  Annex I: Procedure of assessment on and monitoring of environmental impacts
       of the subprojects loaned by the WB-funded RFPs I and 11.
    -  Annex 11: List of the subprojects required for approval of EIA procedure by the
       governmental authority in charge of environmental protection.
    -  Annex 111: List of the subprojects required establishing "Agreement on
       environmental protection".
    -  Annex IV: Agreement on environmental protection with respect to the
       subprojects loaned by the WB-funded RFPs I and 11.
    -  Annex V: List of the subprojects temporarily exempted from EIA procedure.
    -  Annex VI: List of subprojects ineligible in term of environmental protection.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            62

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                            July 2007

    -  Annex VII: Template of EIA classification for the subprojects being loaned in
       Quarter....year 200...

(ii) The guidance for "Assessment on and Monitoring of Environmental Impacts of the
Subprojects Loaned by the WB - Funded RFPs Projects I and 11" (issued by Official
Letter 2749lHD-SGD3 dated 25 May 2006) replacing the former guideline
N1023lHD-BIDV.

111. Basically similar with the guidance in Official Letter 1023lHD-BIDV, this
guidance is issued specifically for the RDF I1 with some additional details such as
classification of subprojects by environmental criteria (item 2 part 11), disbursement
forms and archives (items 4, 5 part 11)". In part I11 (Checkup, monitoring and
reporting) the guidance sets forth "with respect to subprojects falling into classes A
and B, the PFIs shall coordinate and take part in with the governmental authority of
environmental protection in checkup and monitoring of subproject owners'
compliance with regulations and engagement on environmental protection".

This guidance is attached with 10 annexes.

112. This is the first in Vietnam a Commercial Bank integrates environmental
consideration into banking procedure. Thank to this effort, environmental management
and control during the SRFP has been improved comparing to the similar projects in
the rural area of Vietnam.

113. To conduct the above mentioned environmental laws and policies, the BIDV has
set up an "Environmental Management Division within the Transaction Center I11 (TC
111) with a Decision No. 3143lQD-TCCB2October 2002. This Division is responsible
to support BIDV and PFIs in the fields of environmental management.

114. Quarterly, the Project Management Unit (PMU) of BIDV obtains and reviews
environmental reports sent by the PFIs. Additionally, PMU directly screen
environmental problems of "over free limit" group of subprojects.

115. Integrated Environmental monitoring on-site is one of the major topics of the
PMU's supervision teams. In average, this activity is implemented once per month.

116. The PMU has organized 2 training programs on the environmental policies of the
Project for the PFIs' staffs. All PFIs after selection to participate into the Project were
trained by the PMU on the requirement in environmental assessment. The PMU also
conducted training courses for key credit officers of each PFI so that they could
transfer the knowledge in environmental management to their staffs. So far, 150credit
officers of the PFIsIMFIs have involved in that environmental training courses.

3.2.   COMPLIANCE          OF    THE      ENVIRONMENTAL             GUIDELINES   OF    THE
PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS (PFIs)

3.1.2. Number of the PFIs Checked in April 2007

117. In the course of survey and assessment on environmental compliance of the PFIs
by the Consultant (VESDI) from 23 March to 10 April 2007 there were 21 PFIs have
been checked up the compliance with environmental protection regulations (the list
thereof is given in Table 2.19, Chapter Two):
    -  Subject matters of checkup: leaders or credit officers authorized by PFIs.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            63

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                                  July 2007

   -    Checkup method: using the survey sheet "QuestionnaireApplicable to Credit
        OfJicers of the PFIs - Annex F' (Annex 1.4). The questionnaire was designed
        by the Consultant and approved by the BIDV.

   -    Checkup number: 135 credit officers of 128 branches of 21 PFIs. This is almost
        three times more than the number required by the BIDV (46 officers)

118. Considering the synthesis of 135 survey sheets of credit officers of the PFIs, it is
possible to give out some assessment on the PFIs' compliance with the Environmental
Guidelines as follows:

3.2.2. Dissemination of "theEnvironmental Guidelines" of the BIDV and PFIs

119. On receiving "the Environmental Guidelines" of the BIDV, some PFIs issued
documents requiring their branches at province and city levels to implement the
requirements of environmental protection during the implementation of the SRFP
(Example: Official Letter No.l024/NHNo-QLDA dated 30 March 2004 by the
Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, requiring first-grade branches
to comply with environmental regulations set forth in Guidance 1023lHD-BIDV; first-
grade branches of this PFI in turn also requested their branches of district level and the
like to comply with that Letter, for instance: Angiang Province Branch of Vietnam
Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development issued Official Letter No. 294/NHNo-
TD dated 12 April 2004). Those are good typical examples of dissemination of the
environmental guideline of the BIDV to local PFIs. Nevertheless, not all PFIs have
disseminated the guideline in such a formal way.

 120. The results of the field visits found that 80% of credit officers (1081135
interviewed officers) of PFIs obtained and understood the BIDV's " Environmental
Guidelines".

 121. Most of credit officers have been known that subprojects loaned by the SRFP
should ensure environmental protection. Nevertheless, the numbers of credit officers
of the PFIs who received the guideline for "Assessment on and Monitoring of
Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects Loaned by the WB-funded RFPs I & 11 "
(hereinafter referred to as the environmental guideline) from BIDV are different with
details given in Table 3.1.

             Table 3.1. Synthesis of numbers of credit officers who received
                  the environmental guideline in writing from the BIDV


                                            Interviewed                     in writing
                                                credit    I  Receipt of environmental guidance         1

 No.               PFI (bank)
                                                                     Yes                 No
                                               officers
                                                                        I           I       I
                                           i               1Number          %       1Number )  %       1
I                                          1
   1  I Bank for Agriculture and                           1
        Rural Development                        60        I   54       / 9 0 . 0 0 1  6    110.00!
                                                                        1
1 2     Dong-A Commercial Joint                                                                      1
        Stock Bank                         6               3              50.00        3      50.00  1
                                           I               1            I

  3     Kien-Long Rural Commercial
        Joint Stock Bank                   1               1     1      0       0      0      0.00 I


 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                 64

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
        -
                                                                                      July 2007


  4      Phuong-Dong Bank                         3             2        66.67      1       33.33
                                            ~
        I                                  ,
  5     1Ky-Thuong Commercial Joint        /              1             I         I       1
        1Stock ~ a n (Techcombank)
                     k                            2             1       (50.00    1 1
        I
  6 1                                      I                                      '
         Nam-A Commercial Joint            1              I             1         1       1
         Stock Bank                               3            2         66.67      1

  7      Dai-A Commercial Joint
         Stock Bank                               2            2          100       0
        1                                                1             1          1       1          1
  8      Military Commercial Joint
         Stock Bank                                             1        50.00      1      50.00
                                                         1
  9      Saigon Industrial Commercial
         Joint Stock Bank                 6                    5       8 3 . 3 3    1     1 6 . 6 7 1

  10 Hanoi Housing Commercial
         Joint Stock Bank

 11 Phuong-Nam Commercial
         Joint Stock Bank                         3            1         33.33      2      66.67

 12 Nhan-Ai Commercial Joint
         Stock Bank                              6             6          100       0       0.00

 13 Vietnam International Bank
         (VIB)                                   4             1         25.00      3      75.00

 14 Western Rural Bank (Co-Do)                   2             2          100       0       0.00

 15 Saigon-Thuong Tin
         Commercial Bank                          6      I     6          100       0       0.00

 16 Central People's Credit Fund
      1                                   1      7       1     4       1 57.14   1  3     142.86     1
 17 A-Chau Commercial Joint
         Stock Bank
                                          1              1
 18 Housing Development Bank
         for the Mekong Delta                    10            7       7 0 . 0 0    3     3 0 0 0 1

 19 VPBank                                       5
--
 20 Rach-Kien Commercial Joint
         Stock Bank                               1            1         100        0       0.00
       1                                  1
 21 My-Xuyen Commercial Joint
         Stock Bank                               I
      1  Total                            /      135     1    108      1 80.00    1 27    120.00    1
Source: Synthesis of survey sheets of credit officers, VESDI,April 2007

122. During implementation of the project, almost (90%) of the branches of the PFIs
disseminated the requirements of BIDV and WE3 on environmental protection to
subprojects owners. At many branches of the PFIs, credit officers guided the
borrowers on environmental protection requirements from the first stage of the credit
application.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)               65

SRFP - Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                         July 2007


3.2.3. BIDV's and WB's checkup of the PFI about environmental protection
compliance

123. According to the survey results of the Corisultant, 81 out of 135 credit officers
(60% of the interviewed credit officers) revealed that the BIDV and the WE3 have
carried out monitoring the PFI's environmental protection compliance. Data related to
the monitoring of BIDV over each PFI is presented in Table 3.2.

   Table 3.2. Synthesis of the PFIs monitoring by the BIDV on compliance with
                                 Environmental Guideline
                                                                - -         - - -          - -


                                                            Is the PFI checked up by the BIDV
                                             Number of                on implementation of
                                                credit             environmental guidance?
 No.               PFI (Bank)


                                                            Number          %       Number      %


          Rural Development
      I                                    I              I              I        I         I

  2       Dong-A Commercial Joint
        1 Stock Bank                       1      6       1      4       ) 66.67  1   2     1 33.33 (
      1
  3       Kien-Long Rural Commercial
          Joint Stock Bank

  4     / Phuong-Dong                      1       3      1      2       1 66.67   1  1     / 33.33 (
        I

  5     / Ky-Thuong Commercial Joint
         1Stock Bank                               2              2         100       0         0
                                                                                            1
          Nam-A Commercial Joint            I
          Stock Bank                               3             2         66.67      1       33.33

          Dai-A Commercial Joint
          Stock Bank                               2                        100       0      0
                                            I                             I        I         I

          Military Commercial Joint
          Stock Bank                        I      2       (       2      1 0 0 )     0      I  0
                                            ~
          Saigon-CongThuong                1
          Commercial Joint Stock Bank
                                                                          I        I

          Hanoi Housing Commercial
'         Joint Stock Bank                         1              1         100                 0
  11      Phuong-Nam Commercial
          Joint Stock Bank                         3              1        33.33 1    2       66.67
  l2      Nhan-Ai Commercial Joint
          Stock Bank                               6              6         100       0         0

          Vietnam International Bank
          (VIB)                             4                              25.00      3       75.00

L 14      Western Rural Bank (Co-Do)               2              2         100       0        0.00


                                                                               -

 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                66

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
       -
                                                                                   July 2007

 1      Saigon-ThuongTin
        Commercial Bank                            6              2       33.33  4
                                                                         pp

   16   Central People's Credit Fund               7              5       71.43  2        28.57
   17   A-Chau Commercial Joint
        Stock Bank                                 4              1       25.00  3        75.00
   18                                      ,
        Mekong Delta Housing Bank                  10             6       60.00  4        40.00
   I9   VP Bank                                    5              1       20.00  4        80.00
, 20    Rach-Kien Commercial Joint
        Stock Bank                                 1              1        100   0      1   0
  21    My-Xuyen Commercial Joint
        Stock Bank                                 1              1        100   0          0

        Total                                     135           81        60.00  54       40.00

 Source: Synthesis of survey sheets of credit officers, VESDI,April 2007.

 124. Table 3.2 shows that, the BIDV and the WB have checked up compliance with
 Environmental Guidelines at all PFIs.

2.2.4. PFIs' Checkup on Subprojects' Compliance with the Environmental
 Guidelines

    PFIs' dissemination of the Environmental Guideline to subprojects

 125. On credit provision, 90% of PFIs have disseminated environmental protection
requirements of the BIDV and the WB to the subproject owners. Usually credit
 officers notified those requirements right on establishment of credit applications. It is
 obliged that any credit application should include the "Agreement on Environmental
Protection Applicable to Subprojects Borrowing from the SRFP" the subproject's
 undertaking certificated by local authority (usually by the commune authority). That is
 a good example of environmental management of PFIs)

 126. Since PFIs have many branches and are located in a large area then the
 dissemination of environmental protection to subproject owners by each branch is
 different. Even in the same bank system, some branches did it well, some did not well
pay attention on the task of environmental protection (Box 3.1,Appendix 3).

 127. The dissemination from ear to ear of credit officers of PFIs and subproject
 owners is the most common method. Other manners of communication: posters,
pictures, booklets etc. were not commonly used.

 128. The survey found that although Guidance 2749lDH-SGD3 of BIDV requires
 PFIs cooperating with local environmental management agencies in environmental
 checkup and monitoring of subprojects classes A and B, but in fact, PFIs and branches
 do not yet have close relationship with local environmental management agencies
 (Provincial Department of Natural Resources and Environment - DONRE or District
 Division of Natural Resource and Environment) for exchanging experiences and
 documents applicable to monitoring of subprojects. The Departments of Natural
 Resources and Environment and Divisions of Natural Resources and Environment
 themselves have also paid little attention to the task of environmental protection of

 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           67

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    July 2007


subprojects, unless there are complaints by local people. That is, perhaps the
subprojects of the SRFP are small and not obliged to establish EIA reports under the
Vietnam Law on Environmental Protection, meanwhile provinces and districts'
environmental authorities have many more problems that need their considerations.

   Checkup of environmental protection with respect to subproject owners

129. The Consultants' survey discloses that almost all (over 80%) of PFIs have
checked up subprojects' compliance with regulations in "Agreement of Environmental
Protection".

130. Examples of environmental protection checkup of subproject owners in the
Northern Mountainous and Midland Region are given in Table 3.3. This is a good
example for incorporating the environmental protection into commercial bank's
lending which was not exercised in Vietnambefore the SRFP.

          Table 3.3. PHs' Environmental checkup of Subprojects in NMMR
     1              I                                              1                                                            Field of environmental protection checkup
No.        Bank             Province
                                                                                                                                         Done                                                                                                                                     Not done yet
        Agribank      Bacgiang                                         Regular checkup.                                                                                                                                               Sustainableuse of slopping
                                                                          Suggestion for environmental land for protection of the
                                                                       protection.                                                                                                                                                    natural environment.
                                                                         Correction of businesses of Finding more solutions for
                                                                        trucks                                                    and                              construction mitigation of pollution in
                                                                        machines so as to comply with husbandry
                                                                         environmental                                                                                                  protection
                                                                         regulations.
                                                                    ........-......-. ..*......................                            ....-......... -.                 . .....................................
                                                                                                                                                                               -
                       Vinhphuc                                          Unspecific guidance at the Urgent                                                                                                                                                                                             matter                            in
                                                                    1
                                                                    1   beginning.                                                                                                                                                    mobilization and guidance
                                                                         Regular checkup.                                                                                                                                              for mitigation of pollution
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (though it is not severe) in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      husbandry.
                     ........-......     .....................       .........................................................                                                                                               .... ..............................................                       ....    ....   ..-..........
                       Hoabinh                                             Strict regular checkup.                                                                                                                                     Guidance                                                        for            limiting
                                                                          Guidance                                                         for                         subprojects, unbridle herds of cows
                                                                          effective                                                   cooperation                                                                   with
                                                                          authorities of Resources and
                                                                          Environment.
                                     .... .......................... .-..-..-..-
                                        -                                                                                     ..  ...-.--.....-                                        ..                           ........... ....-.--..----                                  .-.......- .--.........    .... ........................
                       Quangninh                                          Good regular guidance and Skills of environmental
                                                                          checkup                                                                                                                                                      protection checkup of and
                                                                          Fruitful                                                  cooperation                                                                     with guidance for subprojects in
                                                                           authorities of resources and estuaries and wetland
                                                                           environment.
      ....                                                                                                                                               ................................................                         ..........................................                                   .........................  -..
                                                                          Very good regular guidance Skills of environmental
                                                                           and checkup, cooperation with protection in industries
                                                                           authorities of resources and
                                                                          environment.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           68

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               July 2007


       Central               Vinhphuc                                                          Unspecific                           guidance               on Skills                                                                                           in  guiding   the
       People's                                                                                making loan agreements with subprojects                                                                                                                                        in
       Credit                                                                                  subprojects.                                                             environmental protection,
       Fund                                                                                    Checkup not regular.                                                     limited                                                                                  knowledge    of
                                                                                                                                                                       measures for prevention or
                                                                                                                                                                       mitigation of pollution for
                                                                                                                                                                       the subprojects of high
                                                                                                                                                                       environmental risk (brick



                                                                                               making loan agreements with biological environment.
                                                                                               subprojects.
                                                                                               chickip not regular.
      Military             Thainguyen                                                          Concrete guidance on making-
                                                                                                          -
      Commerci                                                                                 loan agreements.                                                        biological environment.
      a1           Joint                                                                       Cooperation with provincial
      Stock                                                                                    authorities of resources and
      Bank                                                                                     environment                           for      regular
                                                                                 checkup
      Hanoi                Hoabinh                                                             Guidance    on                        making         loan Skills of in the field of
      Housing                                                                                  agreements.                                                            biological,environment..
      Bank
          ........      .............................................
                           Quangninh                                                           Concrete     checkup                           during
                                                                                               implementation of subprojects
                                                                                               and actual production.
                                                                                               Being skillful in environmental
                                                                                               protection in industries.
      Mekong               Quangninh                                                           Guidance for environmental Skills of in the field of
      Delta Bank                                                                               protection  on making loan protection                                                                                                                              of  biological
      for                                                                                      agreements.                                                            environment,                                                                                  particularly
      Housing                                                                                  Cooperation with provincial estuarine wetland.
                                                                                               authorities of resources and
                                                                                               environment in checkup of
                                                                                               subprojects in Yenhung.
                           Bacgiang                                                            Guidance for environmental Skills of in the field of
                                                                                               protection on making loan environmental                                                                                                                                protection
                                                                                               agreements.                                                            in general
                                                                                               ~heckur,not regular.
                        .......        ..........................................                                                                                     .......-.................................................................................
                          Vinhphuc                                                             Guidance for environmental Cooperation                                                                                                                               with   local
                                                                                               protection on making loan authorities                                                                                                                              of  resources
                                                                                               agreements.                                                           ~and environment.
                                                                                               Checkup not regular
                                                                                  .............       ...   ........................      ....  ....-............
                          Quangninh                                                            Guidance for environmental
                                                                                               protection  on making loan
                                                                                               agreements.
                                                                                               Checkup not regular
      VIB Bank             Bacgiang                                                            Guidance for environmental Skills of in the field of
                                                                                               protection  on making loan protection                                                                                                                              of  biological
                                                                                               agreements.                                                            environment.
                                                                                               Checkup not regular                                                    Cooperation                                                                                   with   local
                                                                                                                                                                      authorities                                                                                 of  resources
                                                                                                                                                                      and environment.

Consultant: ~ietnam~nvironmentand Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                                                                                                                                                                 69

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                                                                                 July 2007


                     Vinhphuc          Guidance for environmental
                                      protection on making loan
                                       agreements.
                                       Checkup not regular
                                                                                                                           -
                                      Attention paid to checkup of
                                       the subprojects that built big
                                      brick kilns.
                                   .................. .. ........................    -........ --...-.---...........
                     Quangninh         Guidance for environmental
                                       protection on making loan
                                       agreements.
                                        Checkup not regular
                                        Attention paid to checkup of
                                  /     ~ ~ ~ - b o t tenterprise                l i &

Source: Regional EIA Reportfor the NMM Region, VESDI,April 2007

 131. In practice, credit officers usually combine their banking tasks with checkup of
environmental protection. Common method used is to observe situation in and
landscape nearby subprojects. Most credit officers are aware that it is their duty to
checkup the subproject's compliance with engagement of environmental protection,
but in practice, environmental checkup of subprojects is beyond functions and ability
of PFIs. That is also reflected by credit officers' opinions (Box3.2-Appendix 3)

3.2.5. General Assessment on PFIs' Compliance with the Environmental
 Guidelines

 132. By analyzing investigation sheets for 135 credit officers of 21 PFIs, it is possible
to preliminarily assess (as the background for assessment in details is not adequate) the
 PFIs' compliance with the environmental guidance as follows (Table 3.4).

                 Table 3.4. Preliminary assessment on PFIs' compliance
                            with the Environmental Guidelines
1 TT      1                     PFI (Bank)                                                                              1 General assessment       1
                                                                                 -

   1       Kien-Long Rural Commercial Joint Stock Bank                                                                   Good compliance

   2       Dai-A Commercial Joint Stock Bank                                                                             Good compliance

   3       Hanoi Housing Commercial Joint Stock Bank                                                                     Good compliance

   4       Nhan-Ai Commercial Joint Stock Bank
                                                                                  -

   5       Western Rural (Co-Do) Bank                                                                                    Good compliance

   6       Rach - Kien Commercial Joint Stock Bank                                                                       Good compliance
1  7      1Techcombank                                                                                                  1Fair compliance            1
I  8       Military Commercial Joint Stock Bank                                                                         1Fair compliance
   9       Saigon Thuongtin Commercial Bank

(  10     1A-Chau (Asia) Commercial Joint Stock Bank                                                                    IFair compliance           I
           Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development
   11
           (Agribank)                                                                                                    Fair compliance



 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                                70

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                               July 2007


          Stock Bank
--
    13    Central People's Credit Fund                                  Fair compliance

    14    Dong-A Commercial Joint Stock Bank                            Medium compliance
1  15     Phuong-Dong Commercial Joint Stock Bank                       Medium compliance

   16     Nam-A Commercial Joint Stock Bank                             Medium compliance       1
   17     Mekong Housing Development Bank                               Medium compliance

   18     VPBank                                                        Medium compliance

   19     Phuong-Nam Commercial Joint Stock Bank                        Medium compliance

   20     Vietnam International Bank (VIB)                              Medium compliance

   21     Myxuyen Commercial Joint-stock Bank                           Good compliance

 133. From Table 3.3, it is possible to group subprojects by their compliance with the
Environmental Guidelines as follows (Figure 3.1):

        - Good compliance: 33.3% of total PFIs.
        - Fair compliance: 33.3% of total PFIs.
        - Medium compliance: 33.3% of total PFIs.

 134. It is a very good proportion in integration of environmental management and
banking operation of the commercial banks participated in the SRFP. Before the
Project there was not a bank required in implementation of the Law on Environmental
Protection.




                     33.3                                      .3%


                                                                              Fair




                                        33.3%




   Figure 3.1. Percentage of PFIs' compliance with the Environmental Guidelines


 3.2.SUBPROJECTOWNERS' COMPLIANCEWITH THE ENVIRONMENTAL GLUDELINES

 3.2.1. Awareness of the WB's and BIDV's Environmental Guidelines

 135. The results of the field survey and analyses of environmental interviewed sheets
 by the Consultant show that 3311521 subprojects have good awareness of the
 integration of production    -  business with environmental protection (accounting for


 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              71

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                               July 2007


63,5% of the total). This is high percentage comparing to the common average level
of environmental awareness of business production units in rural area of Vietnam
(survey in some provinces and cities revealed that percentage of households having
adequate awareness of environmental protection usually lower 50%, even in many
localities rural households have almost no awareness of environmental protection whie
carrying out their businesses). The synthesis of subprojects' awareness of the
Environmental Guidelines is shown in Table 3.5.

    Table 3.5. Synthesis of subprojects' awareness of Environmental Guidelines

                                                                              Not enough
                                                  Good awareness
  No.                   Region                                                awareness

                                                 Number    1      YO       Number       YO

    1     Northern Mountainous Midland               59         60.2          39       39.8      ,
1  2      Red River Delta                       1    94    1    63.5     1    54       36.5       1
1   3    1North of Central                      1    43         75.4          14    1 2 4 . 6      1
4South            of Central and Central       1     20         80.0     1     5    1  20.0        1
1        )Highlands                           I            1             I          1              1
    5     Northeast Mekong                           35         57.4          26       42.6

    6     Mekong Delta                               80         60.6          52       39.4



 Source: Synthesis by VESDI,April 2007.

 136. In the interviews with 135 credit officers, almost replied they had notified
 subprojects of contents such as: credits from SRFP, environmental guidelines to apply,
 requirements of subprojects' engagement of environmental protection. The interviews
 with subprojects owners disclosed that they were all required ensuring environmental
 protection during their implementation of subprojects. Due to good awareness, some
 subprojects, though having no concrete guidance related to environmental protection
 measures, have implemented measures for mitigation of negative impacts so as not to
 affect neighboring people.

 137. In opposite, some subprojects, though having known requirements related to
 environmental protection, but did not pay sufficient attention to the environmental
 protection, have not taken efficient measures in controlling the pollution. Typically,
 those are paper-recycling subprojects loaned by the Agribank, Bacninh branches. That
 is in fact a sector of high environmental risk, such a poor awareness of subprojects
 may lead to pollution in the area. Therefore, the BIDV and PFIs should organize more
 training, workshops and supervision of environmental protection for those subprojects
 (if they are still in the bank's portfolio)

 3.2.2. Subprojects' Activities in Environmental Protection

 a. Existing systems for waste treatment (solid waste, effluent and air emission) at
     the subprojects

 138. The Consultant's survey found that 327 out of 521 subprojects (62.76%) need
 systems for waste treatment. The results of the field surveys found that 91 subprojects

 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)               72      .

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Repotf (Final)
      -                                                                           July 2007


 have good waste treatment facilities (which may well treat all volumes of generated
 wastes), 86 have waste treatment systems which partly meet requirements of waste
 treatment and the remaining 150 subprojects (45.87% of the subprojects that need
 waste treatment systems) have no facilities for waste treatment.

 139. Dividing by ecological economic regions, it is possible to make the synthesis of
 waste treatment actualities of subprojects as shown in Table 3.6.

                     Table 3.6. Synthesis of number and quality of
                        waste treatment measures of subprojects
                                   1                                                              ~
                                     Subprojects       1 Quality of waste treatment facilities




I      I                          1                    1                  I         1   4   8     I
         Northern Mountainous
   1     Midland                           59
1      I                           I                   I                  I         I             I

   2    1Red River Delta                  104                 25              45         34
   3     North of Central                  49                 32              0          17
         South of Central and
                                            5                  1              4              0
   4     Central Highlands
   5     Northeast Mekong                  59                 21              17         21
   6     Mekong Delta                      51                  8              13         30
         Total                            327                 91              86         150

Source: Synthesisfrom questionnairessheets VESDI,May 2007.

    The subprojects having acceptable waste treatment facilities

 140. Referring to Table 3.6, the subprojects that have good waste treatment measures
(highly meeting the requirements) are 91, accounting for 27.83% of the subprojects
that need waste treatment. The subprojects installed waste treatment systems partly
meeting the environmental standards are 86 (26.30% of the total). Totally, number of
the subprojects installed acceptable waste treatment facilities is -177(54.13%) of the
total subproject needed pollution control system. This percentage is much higher than
the average Jigure in the rural areas of Vietnam where most of small and medium
production units in the rural areas do not have waste treatment facilities meeting the
 Vietnamese Standards. Some good examples of subprojects are given in Box
3.3.(Appendix 3). This well demonstrates the good effectiveness of the SRFP in
environmental protection.

    The subprojects having no waste treatment facilities

 141. Referring to Table 3.6, the subprojects that have no waste treatment facilities and
fail to meet The Environmental Guidelines are 150, accounting for 45.87% of the
subprojects that needed waste treatment facilities. Nevertheless, those subprojects are
small and the volumes of their waste matters are limited so that the environment is not
significantly impacted. However, some subprojects of this kind (mainly in the sectors
of aquaculture, paper recycling, production of construction materials) have cause
nuisance to neighboring households even though there is neither claim nor intervention
by state bodies.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            73

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                             July 2007


   The subprojects that have well taken measures for biodiversity protection

142. Due to location outside of the natural reserves, most of subprojects of the SRFP
have not directly caused significant impacts on biodiversity. Therefore, they need not
focus on biodiversity protection. Meanwhile, some subprojects have taken measures
for that purpose. 39 subprojects that have such activity are grouped by regions as
follows

143. The North of Central Region (6 subprojects): those subprojects have planted
forests to restore the degrading forest ecosystems. Nevertheless, the young trees used
in reforestation are of an exotic species (Acacia), which can fiercely compete and
transgress native flora. Therefore, it is necessary to reconsider, for instance, plantation
of Acacia amid other native species, etc.

144. The Northern Midland and Mountainous Region (4 subprojects): Some
subprojects built up fish lagoons in the estuaries and bays in Quangninh province; they
have developed lagoons for breeding parent fish together with protection of forests and
lakes, creating medium viable to some species of wild bird and conditions for
ecotourism associated with natural reserves in Bacgiang; fish is bred in floating cages
in Halong Bay in compliance with environmental protection regulations applicable to
that UNESCO's World Heritage; ecologically sustainable farms are developed in the
buffer zone of Cucphuong National Park in Yenthuy district, Hoabinh province.

145. The Mekong Delta Region (29 subprojects): Those subprojects are in the sectors
of agriculture animal, husbandry and aquaculture. The agricultural subprojects have
observed the procedures of "3 plus 3 minus" and IPM (Integrate Pest Management) so
that the biological environment is preserved. The subprojects in shrimp culture in the
coastal zone are located in the planned area for shrimp culture, therefore, do not cause
impact on mangrove forests.

       Some typical cases of 3 regions are given in Box 3.6 (Appendix 3)

    The subprojects located near to natural reserves

146. Out of 521 subprojects investigated, 26 subprojects are located near sensitive
ecological zones, those include:

       - 4 subprojects in the Northern Mountainous Midland Region: 2 near
Cucphuong National Park and 2 near the Halong Bay.

       - 18 subprojects in the Mekong Delta, of which 7 subprojects are on the coastal
zone of Nhamat, Baclieu Town.

147. Nevertheless, all of those subprojects have been approved by local authorities
and well done the measures for environmental protection that not causing any effect on
these natural reserves or sensitive ecological zone. Waste matters from their sites are
not causative of any negative impact on the biological resources and in the
surroundings.

    The subprojects about which people and/or local authority have complained

148. Out of 521 subprojects investigated, only 15 subprojects are complained, at
various levels, by people or local authorities. However, there was not a subproject
which was penalized by local authorities due to levels of violation to the
environmental law were not serious.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)             74

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                             July 2007


       - In the Northern Mountainous Midland Region: 3 subprojects in plastic
       recycling in Vinhphuc and Phutho are complained about pollution due to
       offensive smell.

       - In the Northeast Mekong Region: 3 subprojects in animal husbandry are
       complained about environmental pollution caused by wastewater and offensive
       smell.

       - In the Mekong Delta, 9 subprojects in animal husbandry are complained about
       environmental pollution caused by untreated wastes.

       - In the Red River Delta, a dozen of subprojects (mainly involving in paper
       production) have caused environmental pollution but they are not complained
       by local people because they are located in craft villages, where most families
       earn their living thereon.

       Some of typical examples are shown in Box 3.5 (Appendix 3).


3.3. LESSONS ON INTEGRATION                OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION INTO
PRODUCTION -BUSINESS

149. In implementing the WB's requirements, the BIDV has set up the Guidelines for
"Assessmentand Monitoring of Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects that Borrow
Money from the WBFunded" ("the Environmental Guidelines"). This "Environmental
Guidelines" is the legal basis that the PFIs should comply in lending in order to ensure
that subprojects integrate their production - business with environmental protection
toward sustainable development. This is the first time in Vietnam, commercial banks
are requested to comply with environmental protection in their business. By
implementation      of    the    "Environmental        Guidelines",       the environmental
management and protection of subprojects have obtained evident progresses when
compared withproductions and businesses that are not supported by the SRFP.

3.3.1. Reasons of Good Environmental Protection

    Environmental Guidelines of the BIDV

150. As stipulated in "the Environmental Guidelines", all credit applications of
subprojects that required "Agreement on Environmental Protection", have "Agreement
on Environmental Protection Applicable to the Subprojects that Borrow Money from
the WBFunded SRFP".

151. Although signing the Agreement is one of the credit procedures, but this is the
legal background for environmental management of subprojects and at the same time it
contributes to the improvement of subproject owners' awareness regarding production
-business associatedwithenvironmentalprotection.

152. A large part of subprojects has been notified by the PFIs before borrowing and
during implementation of subprojects about environmental regulations of the WB and
the BIDV. Many PFIs have guided subprojects for taking environmental protection
measures.

153. The role of the PFIs in environmental protection activities of the subprojects is
apparent and the influence from the WB and the BIDV is important, through issuing


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)             75

SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                           July 200 7


and enforcement of guidelines on both environmental protection and environmental
checkup with respect to subproject.

   Guidelines of state environmental management agencies and social movements

154. During the preparation of credit applications, local cadastral and environmental
officers of communes certified and required subproject owners to implement
environmental protection activities at their localities and surroundings thereof.

155. Most information on law and guidelines on environmental protection are given
by local state bodies in charge of management natural resources and environment.
Some social movements on the theme of "Green - Clean and Beauty", some national
programs such as "Construction of Cultural Villages and Communes", economically
and ecologically sustainable models, regulations on environmental protection
applicable to National Parks and World's Heritage, etc. also help many credit officers
and subproject owners to be aware of environmental protection.

    Awareness of subproject's owners

156. From the results of the field surveys at 521 subprojects it is 100% of the
subprojects owners have awareness in environmental protection due to that they know
the Vietnamese Laws. However, levels of environmental consideration in production
and business are quite different among the project owners.

157. Most subproject owners have taken environmental protection measures, and
particularly the specific measures for their productions, due to their awareness or
learning from good models of environmental protection.

Withregard to the subprojects of the husbandry sector

158. - As a sine specific problems for breeding, most subprojects pay special
attention to hygienic conditions of their breeding facilities.

       - The measures such as powdering inside breeding facilities and internal roads
       with lime in order to prevent epidemic diseases from spreading (mouth and
       hoof disease of cattle and bird flue of poultry) are widely used.

       - Biogas pits for treatment of fecal matters and breeding effluent, use of the
       residue from biogas pits as compost are widely developed at the large-sized pig
       farms.

Withregard to the subprojects of brickproduction

159. Subproject owners know that the flue gas causes environmental pollution but it is
difficult to be controlled. Therefore, the following measures are applied at some brick
production enterprises:

       - Building brick kilns far from populated areas.

       - Building high chimneys to drive flue gas high above, thereby to increase
       dilution of flue gas with fresh air.

       - Never firing two kilns with the same chimney because one chimney is not
       enough for flue gas from two kilns.

Those experiences are learnt from other entities or from environmental agencies.

Withregard to the subprojects ofprocessing of mechanical products and wood

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           76

 SRFP Environmental Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                           July 2007


 160. - Providing workers with labor protection means.

       - Not carrying out production at break times (noon and from 6:00 PM to 7:00
 AM)

 161. In the Northeast Mekong Region good environmental protection by subprojects
 is mostly resulted from subproject owners' awareness (27 subprojects, accounting for
 77.1% of the subprojects with good environmental protection); by the guidance of the
 PFIs (6 subprojects, accounting for 17.1%); and enforcement by local environmental
 management authorities (5 subprojects, 14.3%).

 162. In the Mekong Delta Region, the main cause of subprojects' good environmental
protection is the subproject owners themselves (accounting for 71%). The influence of
 PFIs contributed 20% and that of other specializing agencies 9%.

 163. In the Red River Delta, more than 50% of the subprojects with good
 environmental protection have good environmental awareness, mostly by learning
 themselves from literatures and experiences of others, etc.. It is noteworthy that PFIs
 also play important role in enhancing the subproject owners awareness in
environmental protection.

 164. In the North Central Region:

        - The subprojects that obtained good awareness thanks to the guidelines of PFIs
        account for 66.67%

        - The subprojects that obtained good awareness thanks to the guidelines and
        self-teaching account for 8.77%.

 165. In the South Central Region, the subprojects that have good awareness of
environmental protection, and well comply with the environmental guidelines account
for a high percentage (up to 80%).

    The role of subprojects' financial and technological capabilities

 166. Subprojects' financial and technological capabilities also make a critical
contribution into environmental protection. The financially capable subproject owners
can better solve matters related to environmental protection. Some typical subprojects
that make good contribution into solving environmental problems due to financial
capability are given in Box 3.6(Appendix 3)..

 3.3.2. Reasons of Adverse Environmental Impacts

    Limited efficiency of state environmental management agencies

 167. Due to limitation in manpower, time and finance. State bodies in charge of
 environmental management (Department of Resources and Environment of provinces
 and cities, Divisions of Natural Resources and Environment of districts) can not
 supervise small projects (such as the subprojects under the SRFP) except of some large
 subprojects that cause impacts or disturb people that lead to complaints.

 168. The survey by the Consultant found that more than 90% subprojects in 6 regions
 in the whole country have not been inspected by any local Department or Division of
.Resources and Environment.



 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          77

SRFP - Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                   July 2007


169. Lacking close relation between the BIDV, PFIs and Departments of Natural
Resources and Environment, the responsibility of Departments of Natural Resources
and Environment in training for PFIs about environmental protection is not defined.
Therefore, a large part of subproject owners have not chances to get environmental
training from the state programs.

    Limited environmental awareness of subproject owners

170. Requirements under the SRFP have contributed to enhancing the subproject
owners' awareness on environmental protection. This was confirmed by the field
survey. However, many subproject owners only paid attention to and set targets at
economic profit rather than environment matters. Due to limited awareness of
environmental protection, some subproject owners have not set aside adequate
financial sources for building waste treatment facilities for prevention of
environmental pollution.

171. The conservative customs of small producers is still kept by some subprojects
owner, that is to discharge all waste matters to rivers, lakes, ponds, and canals and the
water environment is consequently more and more polluted.
   -   Some subprojects of the husbandry sector: Some subproject owners have not
       taken any measures for treatment of solid waste and animal husbandry
       wastewater, stating that their breeding scales are small and shortage of capital
       makes it impossible to take pollution control measures.
   -   Some subprojects of the paper recycling sector: Many subproject owners state
       that while other entities have never treated waste matters, they can do the same
       and continue discharge untreated waste directly to receiving sources.

    Financial and technological limits

172. Investment in management and treatment of waste matters is costly, whereas a
major part of subproject owners are small with limited financial sources. Therefore,
even with good awareness of environmental protection, many subprojects owners
failed to build up and operate proper systems for treatment of emissions, effluent, solid
wastes, noise and for improvement of the work environment.

173. Considering the results of study as mentioned above, it is possible to draw
conclusions that subproject owners' awareness of environmental protection is very
important since it is the main reasonfor good environmental management. Financial
and technological capabilities are the necessary conditions to cawy out the
environmental protection commitments. The pressures from state bodies and local
people are theforce that urges subprojects to take environmentalprotection measures.
In addition, the WB and the BIDV's Environmental Guidelines are effective tools in
integration of environmental protection into theproduction - business of subprojects.
Therefore, the contribution of the SRFP into environmental management and
protection in the rural areas of Vietnamis significant.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           78


SRFP -Environmental Assessment Repoti (Fina1)July 2007


                                   CHAPTER FOUR

  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT ON THE SUBPROJECTS


174. Details of environmental impacts of 521subprojects, which are selected from
over 100,000 subprojects of the SRFP, are shown in every questionnaires with
respect to subproject owners and environmental survey sheets prepared by
investigators (survey team members) for each subproject (see the filled
questionnaire sheets). Environmental impacts of the selected subprojects by sectors
and ecological - economic regions are shown in special Regional EIA Reports.
Chapter Four of this EIA report is a synthesis of the obtained results from analysis
of the collected survey sheets and fiom the 6 Regional EIA Reports. The term of
"subproject" used by the WB and BIDV and mentioned in this report means that a
production - business unit borrowing sub-loan from the SRFP, that was not
established by the Project.

4.1. GENERAL ASSESSMENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC
     IMPACTS OF THE SUBPROJECTS

175.Most of subprojects of the SRFP have positive socio-economic impacts.

    Increase in income

176. The main target of subprojects is to promote economic conditions of owners,
that is, to increase income by expanding productions and trading based on the loans
provided by the SRFP via PFIs (commercial banks participating in the project). In
practice, the site study found that most subproject owners have boosted their income
after borrowing money from the project. According to the interviews of the study
teams, the income of most subprojects has significantly increased since loans had
been invested in production and trading. For instance, in the aquaculture sector,
after deducting all expenses, the households earned profits of 2 to 10 milliodmonth,
depending on models and breeding areas. Pig husbandry combined with fish
breeding can bring to the project owner an income of around 20-30 milliodmonth
after deducting expenses. Such income is higher than before the Project.

    Increase in land use value

177. A clear-cut positive impact of subprojects is the increase in land use value.
Before borrowing, a major part of land was agricultural land or non-use residential
land. After borrowing, subproject owners turned their land lots into production land
and the values thereof increased significantly, particularly when land is used for
aquaculture, husbandry and industrial production.

    Job creation

178. Subprojects have created considerable jobs for their own families. In addition,
many subprojects of medium and large scales have employed workers from
neighboring regions, thereby contributed into solving local problems related to
employment.

    Improvement of people's awareness of environmental protection

179.Most families, on borrowing money from banks, had to sign "the Agreement
on Environmental Protection with Respect to Subprojects Borrowing Money from

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)     79

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)July 2007

the SRFP Funded by the WB" (Form 3 in Appendix IV to the Guideline
N2749IHD-SGD3 issued by the BIDV on 25.5.2006. This Agreement has
confirmation of the Commune's People Committee and the PFI). Signing the
Agreement help the subproject owners enhance their awareness on the
environmental protection while carrying out business and trading activities. With
the reminder of the PFIs, people's awareness and knowledge on pollution control
and sanitation protection is significantly improved. This is one of great successes of
the project.

     Mitigation of environmental impacts from production and businesses
     activities

180. Due to improved awareness and implementation of the agreement on
environmental protection, a major part of subproject owners have taken measures to
prevent pollution and improve work environment and the surrounding environment.
The percentage of subprojects in the SRPF that have systems for collection and
treatment of waste matters (in sectors of handicrafts, small industries and animal
husbandry) is much higher than that of the entities not taking part in the project. All
subprojects have no encroachment upon natural reserves, cultural, historic and
religious works. That is a remarkable result of the binding of a banking activity
(lending) with environmental protection by the SRPF that no bank in Vietnam has
achieved before the project.

181. Such positive impacts can help significantly improve subproject owners' living
conditions. Nevertheless, during business by various reasons, still some subprojects
have caused noticeable impacts to the natural and social environment in some
localities. Main impacts of the subprojects include:
    -  Environmental pollution due to effluent from the sites of animal husbandry,
       paper recycling, aquaculture, etc.
    -  Air pollution from flue gases of paper recycling, brick kilns, etc.

Negative environmental impacts of the visited subprojects are assessed for each
ecological economic region and sector (Sections 4.3-4.4).

182. However, it may point out that the negative environmental impacts created by the
subprojects are not due to the loans from the SRFP since most of the production         -

business units (householders) had been operated before the project and the
environmental problems were existed before borrowing moneys from the project. The
loans from the Project support these units to increase production scales, which may
increase scales of environmental impacts. On the contrary, the project's policy of loan
provision integrating to the requirement of environmental protection may help
subproject owners to pay more attention on pollution control and conservation of the
nature. In practice, it is difficult to separately assess the positive or negative impacts
that these subprojectscreated in case of with or without the project. The information on
environmental impacts given in this Chapter is only a description of the present state of
the environment and environmental impacts of the visited subprojects which may help
BIDV, PFIs and the State Environmental Management Agencies to draw lessons in
environmentalmanagement for this project in the future.

4.2. IMPACT CLASSIFICATION



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          80

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

183. The subprojects of the SRFP have small or medium scales, there is not a
subproject belongs to A Category according to the WB's classification or belongs to
the Class required full EIA by the Vietnamese Regulation. Therefore, their
environmental impacts may be small. However, to clearly assess the impacts caused
by subprojects, a classification is necessary. Conventionally, environmental impacts
by subproject are classified into 5 levels as follows:
   -    "Major impact" (or strong impact, severe impact) is an impact may damage a
       component of the environment or significantly changes the environment,
       causing adverse affect to public health andlor ecosystems in and surrounding
       the subproject site.
   -    "Medium impact" (or intermediate impact) is an impact may degrade a part
       of the environmental value or apparently affect to the environment in and
       surrounding the subproject site.
   -    "Small impact" (or minor impact) is an impact may slightly reduce a part of
       the environmental value.
    -   "No impact" is a subproject's activity practically does not cause impact on
       the environment.
    -   "Unknown impact" is an impact may not be identified due to lack of relevant
       information, evidence.

In this study the above mentioned impacts are known as "negative ones".

184. The levels of "Major", "medium", "small" impacts in this EIA study are only
used for impact assessment of the selected 521 subprojects under SRFP. Those
levels of impact do not have the same meaning of "major", "medium" or "minor"
levels of impact used for EIA of large-sized projects like thermal power plants,
paper mills, urban areas or highways, etc.

185. Through site study and assessment of detailed impacts of each subproject, it is
importantly to point out that out of 521 surveyed subprojects, no subproject is
causative of major impacts. In fact, the levels of impacts created by SRFP's
subprojects ranged from no impact to small or medium. Some subprojects of
medium impacts are listed (see details in Sections 4.3 and 4.4).

 186.In a bid to provide convincible comments on environmental impacts, some
typical subprojects of good environmental protection and of negative impacts are
given in Box 4.1 (Appendix 4). Details of environmental impacts of subprojects are
assessed in relevant questionnaires.

4.3   IMPACTS      OF    SUBPROJECTS          ON     ENVIRONMENTAL           FACTORS BY
ECOLOGICAL-ECONOMIC REGIONS.

4.3.1 Environmental impacts of subprojects in the Northern Mountainous
Midland Region.

 187.The Northern Mountainous Midland Region has 98 subprojects (production           -

business entities borrowing sub-loans from the project) surveyed (accounting for
 18.1% of the total subprojects in 6 regions). Classification of those subprojects by
various sectors are given in Table 4.1 and Figure 4.1



                                                                               --
Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)        81

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

       Table 4.1: Classification of Subprojects by Sectors in the Northern
                           Mountainous Midland Region
  INO.    I                                                                 I
                             Sector                        Subprojects               '30

     1      Fishery                                              15         I       15.3

     2      Animal husbandry                                     34                34.7

  1  3      Agriculture                                          12                 12.2
  1  4    / Industries small industries
                      -



     7      Transport and Construction                           13                 13.3           ,
  1  8    1 Total


                                                                                         I1
                                                              Fishery

                                                           E4 Animal Husbandry

                                                              Agriculture

                                                              Industries-Small Industries

                                                           W Food Processing

                                                              Trading
                                                          1   Transport -Construction        11

                Figure 4.1: Classification of subprojects by sectors in
                    the Northern Mountainous Midland Region

188. The main environmental impacts of those subprojects are assessed in the
Regional EIA Report and summarized in Table 4.2.


 Table 4.2: General Assessment on Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects
                   in the Northern Mountainous Midland Region




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                       82

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007




Source: VESDI,April 2007

       Note: 0: no impact             -:no subproject

                X: minor impact       XX: medium impact

                XXX: major impact

The overall judgments given in Table 4.2 can be explained by information as
follows.

    Pollution due to air emissions

189. The subprojects of sectors such as aquaculture and fishing, husbandry,
agriculture and trading have no source of emissions then they do not pollute the air
environment. The main sources of air pollution in this Region are from sectors such
as:
   -   Industries and small industries: Emissions and chemical vapors emitted from
       productions of bricks, mechanical products and recycling of plastics.
   -   Transport: Emissions from engines of automobiles.

 190. The subprojects created air pollution are 2 plastic recycling entities since they
are located in Yenlac district, Vinhphuc province where the population density is
high. This impact is assessed as medium. Other subprojects are assessed as having
medium or no air quality impact.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable ~ e v e l o ~ m e1nstitG (VESDI)
                                                                 n t                 83

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

191. In brief, the pollution due to emissions in the Northern Mountainous Midland
Region (solely by breeding, small industries - handicrafts and construction) is
assessed as medium (inside of the subproject area) and small (surroundings of the
subproject area).

-               Pollution due to wastewater

192.The pollution due to effluent of the subprojects in this Region is mainly due to:

    (i)     Efflentfrom dredging of aquacultureponds

193. In some regions with fresh water in Bacgiang, Vinhphuc, Hoabinh and the
areas of saline and brackish water alongside the Chanh River, the Kinhthay River,
and the Troi River in Quangninh (washing and cleaning of ponds) have caused
adverse impacts on the water environment. Nevertheless, the impact thereof is local
and assessed as small.

194. Some subprojects in the sub-regions of Yengiang, Quangyen town, Yenhung
district have built lagoons for breeding Garmpa in the estuary. The subproject
owner took measures in order to control saline over-salinization, regulate water, and
protect the mangrove forest and aquatic biota around his system. As such, the
project has made contribution to the economically and ecologically sustainable
development of the wetland.

    (ii)    Effluentfrom plastic recycling entities

195.Production effluent, floor-wash and sanitary wastewater have caused
signlJicant pollution to the environment since they are located in populated areas
but there is no or improper treatment. The pollution caused by those subprojects is
assessed as medium.

-               Pollution due to solid wastes

196.The main source of solid waste in this Region is animal husbandry.
Thankfully, 86% of husbandry households in this region employ the biogas method
to treat a major part of solid waste, and the remaining part is used as fertilizers and
solid waste therefrom only cause local air pollution and the environmental impact is
inconsiderable (no impact).

197.There are some subprojects that produce industrial solid waste and sanitary
refuse such as entities involving in wood production, plastic recycling, mechanical
processing and packaging production. A major part of sanitary refuse is collected to
dump sites of communes, districts or provinces, whilst industrial solid waste is
mostly recycled or sold (such as iron scrap from mechanical processing, wood bits
from wood processing, etc.). Therefore, the environmental impact due to solid waste
is small (minor).

-               Pollution due to noise and vibration

198.The pollution due to noise and vibration of the subprojects in the Northern
Midland and Mountainous Region is caused by entities of mechanical processing,
wood processing and transport. Nevertheless, as those subprojects are small-scaled,
their noise and vibration are limited within their workshops. Therefore, the
environmental impact of noise and vibration is assessed as small.

-               Pollution due to offensive smells


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)        84

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

199. The pollution due to offensive smells occur mainly at pig breeding facilities,
chemical productions, brick kilns, coating and welding workshops and plastic
processing facilities. As for breeding facilities, the pollution due to offensive smells
is assessed as small (minor) since subproject owners use refuse as raw materials for
biogas pits and pig cages are frequently cleaned.

200. As for industrial and small industrial workshops, offensive smells can damage
the health of workers and surrounding people. Therefore, this impact is assessed as
medium on the environment.

-               Impacts on aquatic biota

201. The field survey found that subprojects did not cause impacts on the aquatic
biota in site and in the surroundings.
-               Impacts on sensitive ecological zones

202. The Northern Mountainous Midland Region has 4 subprojects inside
ecologically sensitive zones; those include 2 subprojects of the aquaculture sector
and 1 subproject of husbandry and 1 subproject of agriculture.
  ..
   1.                 2 subprojects of aquaculture: The subprojects owners (Mr.
        L.X.D in Yenhung district and Mr. N.V.C in Halong City, Quangninh
        Province) actively implement the commitment of Environmental Protection
        therefore the subprojects have caused neither pollution nor negative impacts
        on the surroundings (the mangrove forest along the Chanh River and the
        buffer zone of Halong Bay).
  ..
  11.                 The animal husbandry subproject (Mr. B.V.L and Ms. P.T.N at
        Tanlac district, Hoabinh Province): The owner has not taken any
        environmental protection measure. Nevertheless, due to small scale of
        production, the impacts of this subproject on the environment is assessed as
        small.
 ...
 111.                 The agriculture subproject (Mr. T.B.N at Yenthuy district,
        Hoabinh Province): this is an intensive orchard that provides positive
        impacts to the buffer zone of Cucphuong National Park.

4.3.2. Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects in the Red River Delta Region

203. The Red River Delta has 148 subprojects investigated (accounting for 28.4%
of the total of the whole nation). Classification of subprojects by sectors is given in
Table 4.3 and Figure 4.2.

     Table 4.3: Classification of subprojects by sectors in the Red River Delta
    1No.   1                 Sector                       1Subprojects    (   %         '

      1     Fishery                                    1     5 3              35.8
    ppp



      2     Animal husbandry                                     33           22.3
      3     Agriculture                                           0           0.0

      4     Industries - small industries                        56           37.8     I
           ,

    1 5    1~ o o processing
                  d                                       I       2       I   1.4      I
   1  6     Trading                                       1       1           0 . 7 1

                                                                             - -
Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            85

SRFP- Environmental Assessment Report (Final)July 2007

                      I
                      1              7                   1Transport and Construction                           I        3           1     2.0      1
                     1               8                   1Total


204. From Table 4.3 and Figure 4.2 it is apparent that in the Red River Delta, a
major part of subprojects are of sectors such as aquaculture, husbandry and
industry. Subprojects of other sectors are limited and their environmental impacts
are inconsiderable.


                                                                                                                  '
                                                                                                                    Fishery

                                                                                                                    Animal Husbandry

                                                                                                          5.8%     0Agriculture
                                                           37.8%
                                                                                                                    Industries-SmU Industries

                                                                                                                    Food Processing
                                                                                  0.0%        22.3%
                                                                                                                    Trading

                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                    Transport - Construction I

                         Figure 4.2: Classification of subprojects in sectors in the Red River Delta

205. The main environmental impacts of the subprojects in the Red River Delta are
shown in details in the Regional reports and outlined in Table 4.4.
                                                                                                              1n:i:tri
 Table 4.4: General assessment on the environmental impacts of subprojects in
                                                                                           the Red River Delta
......-.\                                                 Sector                   Fishery Anima   Agricultu                F:;d       Trading  Transpo
                                                                                              1      re                   processi                  rt -
                                                                                           Husba              small                             construc
                                                                                           ndry              industrie                              tion


 Air pollution
  - in site
.....................................
  - surroundings

     Waterpollution
............                          ................... .- ............... .....
   - in site
   - surroundings
  Pollution due to
  solid waste
   - in site
   - surroundings
  Noise and
   vibration


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                                       86

   SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)July 2007




I




 6 Impactson                          0           -         X             0      0 0
    aquatic biota

 7 Ecologically             0         0           -         0             0      0      0
   sensitive zones


   Source: VESDI,April 2007

          Note: 0: no impact             -:no subproject

                  X: minor impact

                  XX: medium impact

                   XXX: major impact

   206. From Table 4.4 it is possible to indicate that the impacts in the Red River Delta
   are mostly caused by the subprojects of the industry and small industry sector.
   Those impacts are assessed below.

   -               Pollution due to air emissions

   207. Only some subprojects of the industry and small industry sector have caused
   air pollution to the project site and surroundings. In other words, subprojects of
   other sectors have no significant impact on the environment. The subprojects
   created air pollution are those involving in paper recycling and brick production.

   208. The emissions produced by the subprojects in the Red River Delta include flue
   gas from coal burning (100% of surveyed entities use coal as fuel for their boilers),
   gaseous chemicals (chlorine, evaporated solvents, etc.) and dust.

          Withrespect topaper recycling subprojects

   209. Air pollution at thepaper recyclingfactory in Ninhbinh (Tien Dung Paper Co.,
   Ltd. At Tanthanh ward, Ninhbinh City): The amount of coal used in this factory is
   approximately 50 ton per month (1.7 ton per day), producing large volumes of dust
   and toxic gases. Nevertheless, since the factory built up a high chimney then its
   environmental impacts are small.

   210. Air pollution at the village of traditional production of Duong-0 and
   Phongkhe Industrial Park at Yenphong district, Bacninh province (including 14
   subprojects): the judgments on pollution due to emissions at paper recycling entities
   therein as follows:
       -    100% of subprojects therein have no more emission treatment facility than
            chimneys. Nevertheless, all chimneys at surveyed entities are low (under
            20m) that failed to meet standards then they are causative of air pollution.



   Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)       87

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)July 2007

    -    At 100% of the surveyed subprojects, contents of solvents and bleaching
         chemicals are high, affecting health of people and workers.

Considering those judgments, it is assessed that the pollution due to emissions (dust
and toxic gases) of the subprojects is relatively significant (medium impact).

        With respect to brickproduction subprojects:

211.Although they have installed chimneys, but wind may brings emissions to
adjacent people's houses or villages. However, most of brick kilns are located far
fiom residential areas, air pollution at residential areas is small.

        With respect toplastic production subprojects:

212. Air pollution inside plastic production workshops occurs at 33% of subprojects
(gases are emitted when polymers are melted). Nevertheless, this kind of pollution
is local with limited scope and this impact is assessed as inconsiderable.

213.In briefl in this region, paper recycling subprojects produce large volumes of
air emissions and significant influence on the environment. Otherproductions and
businesses only cause minor air pollution. The impacts on air quality of residential
areas by industry and small industry subprojects are assessed as small.

-              Level of pollution due to wastewater

214. The subprojects that produce large volumes of effluent are of the animal
husbandry sector. Nevertheless in the Red River Delta, most husbandry effluent is
used for feeding fish or as fertilizers then there is almost no significant or only small
impact on the environment.

215. The sector that produces much effluent and big impacts on the water
environment is paper production.

216.The effluents from paper recycling entities include:

    -   Production effluent

    -   Sanitary wastewater

    -   Workshop-wash water

    -   Runoffwater

217. The surveyed results shown that on average, an entity of this sector produces
0.5-5 m3 of effluent. Although the flow rate of one entity is not large, as there are
many similar entities nearby, the total flow produced daily is considerable. On the
other hand, all of this effluent is not properly treated yet discharged to common
sews and then to the river. The environmental impacts by paper recycling entities in
Duong-0 will be detailed in Section 4.4.4.1. The effluent fiom those entities causes
water pollution inside their premises and surroundings.

218. Tien-Dung Paper Co., Ltd. in Ninhbinh has the daily production of 100-150 m3
of effluent. Nevertheless, this entity has a well-operated effluent treatment system
that returns water afier treatment while mud is transported to the dump site of the
province. Therefore, the environmental impact of the effluent from this entity is
assessed as small. This is a good example in environmental management in paper
production units that other entities should learn.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         88

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)July 2007

-              Pollution due to solid waste

219. The sources of solid waste are from animal husbandry and industries.
Nevertheless, a major part of solid waste is collected for recycling or using as raw
materials for other sectors.

    i. Animal wastes: used for feeding biogas pits (22 subprojects) or fish feeds (78
       subprojects) or as fertilizers.

   ii. Solid waste from industries and handicrafls: reused (such as iron scrap,
       plastic granules, waste paper), used as fuel (firewood) or commercial produce
       (cinder of brick kilns, sawdust, scrap iron, etc.).

Therefore, the solid waste from the subprojects in the Red River Delta only slightly
influenced on the environment.

-              Pollution due to noise and vibration

220. In The Red River Delta, noise and vibration pollution is caused by the
subprojects of the industry, small industry and handicraft sector (mostly the
subprojects involving in wood production and processing and paper recycling).
Other sectors do not cause noise and vibration pollution.

        Withrespect to the woodprocessing sector:

221. The sources of noise at wood processing entities are machines for sawing,
splitting, smoothing and drilling, etc. The survey of the Consultants found 80% of
wood processing entities use those machines for processing wood. The remaining
20% perform those steps by either outsourcing or locating those steps elsewhere,
meaning only the finishing step is performed in their workshops.

222. Noise from those machines is relatively heavy and all subprojects have no
noise control measure. According to surveyed results, 80% of total subprojects have
relatively high noise levels at their workshops. Nevertheless, at the distance of more
than 50 m, noise is greatly reduced and only 7 subprojects (accounting for 28%)
caused noise that affects the adjacent residential areas.

223. From the information mentioned above, it is possible to assess that noise
pollution due to wood processing is medium (in side the production areas) and small
(outside of the production areas).

        Withrespect to thepaper recycling sector:
    -   In production area: Most of entities have apparently suffered fiom noise.
        Nevertheless, heavy noise exists only in the areas of segmenting machines.
    -   In the surroundings: noise is mostly produced by local traffic but it is
        limited.

From the judgments mentioned above, it is assessed that noise pollution at paper
recycling entities is medium (inside) and small (outside production facilities).

-               Pollution due to offensive smells

224. The pollution due to offensive smells is produced by the husbandry subprojects
and the subprojects of the industry, small industry and handicraft sector (solvent
vapors from the bleaching step at paper recycling entities, vapors of varnish and
paint from wood processing entities).

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)      89

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Re~ort(FinalJJulv 2007

   -   Thepollution due to offensive smells of breeding solid waste is noticeable at
       breeding facilities (72 subprojects, accounting for 83.7% of the total in the
       zone). Nevertheless, at the distance of more than 50m, impacts of offensive
       smells are no longer noticeable and assessed as small.

   -   At wood processing workshops: It is common in wood processing workshops
       that polishing is the final step after various processing steps. The materials
       used for polishing include varnish, adhesives, paints, petrol and oil.
       Therefore, in addition to wood dust, those entities give out toxic gases of
       varnish, petrol, oil, paint in form of vapors, directly threatening people's
       health. Thankfully, the volumes of such vapors are limited, the exposure is
       short and workers wear comforters then this impact is assessed as small (in
       fact, there is no study into occupational diseases then there is no background
       for assessing the chronic influence of those chemicals).
   -   At paper recycling entities: At production facilities, the concentrations of
       chemicals (chlorine and solvent vapors from the bleaching step) are
       relatively high, threatening workers' health. By means of survey, it is found
       that:
            - Chemical gases and solvent vapors are found at 15 out of 16 paper
               recycling subprojects in the Red River Delta; particularly the smell of
               chlorine is strong.
            -  At 14 out of 15 subprojects, the pollution is noticeable.

-               Impacts on aquatic biota

225. Except paper recycling subprojects, all subprojects of other sectors do not
cause impact on the aquatic biota in site and in the surroundings. 87.5% of paper
recycling subprojects (14 out of 16 subprojects) with high discharge of wastewater
may contribute to river water pollution and consequently influence on the aquatic
biota in the surroundings (the Ngu Huyenkhe River - Yenphong district, Bacninh
province).

-               Impacts on sensitive ecological zones

226. All subprojects in the Red River Delta are not located inside or adjacent to any
buffer zone of any natural reserve, and obviously they have no impact on any
natural reserve.

    Encroachment upon historic, cultural and religious sites

227. All subprojects in the Red River Delta do no encroach upon any historic or
cultural sites. There are however some subprojects near cemeteries of hamlets but
the distance thereto is at least 200 m.


4.3.3. Environmental Impacts of subprojects in the North Central Region

228. There are 57 subprojects in the North of Central Region (accounting for 10.9%
of the subproject investigated in the whole nation). Classification of subprojects by
sectors is given in Table 4.5 and Figure 4.3.

                      Table 4.5: Classification of subprojects in
                         the North Central Region by sectors

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)       90

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007


                 No.                                                             Sector
          -

                         1                     Fishery
                                                                                                                                           I
                        2                       Animal husbandry                                               13                22.8
          1             3                       Agriculture                                              1     11          1      19.3     1
          1             4                 1     Industries - small industries                            4                 1      7.0      1
                                                                                                                                           1
          I                               I                                                              I                 I

                        5                       Food processing                                                 2                 3.5
           1            6                  1    Trading                                                  1      8          1      14.0     1
           7
                                                Transport and Construction                               1                 I               ~
                                                                                                                                  5.3
          1             g                  1    Total                                                    1     57          1      100      1


                                                                                                            Fishery

                                                                                                          B!Animal Husbandry

                                                                                                          O Agriculture

                                                                                                            Industries-Small Industries

                                                                                                          B!Food Processing

                                                                                                            Trading

                                                                                                            Transport -Construction



                                                                           Figure 4.3: Classification of subprojects
                                                                          in the North of Central Region by sectors

 229. The main environmental impacts of the subprojects in the North of Central
 Region are shown in detail in a Regional Environmental Impacts Assessment
 Reports and outlined in Table 4.6.

                                                       Table 4.6: General assessment on environmental impacts    7
                                                                      of the subprojects in the North of Central Region

                                                                          Fishery  Anima                          processi               Transpo
                                                                                      I                                                     rt -
                                                                                   Husba                 small                           construc
                                                                                    ndry              industrie                             tion
        Impact

I      Air pollution
     1  - In site
t       - Surroundings

2 Water
 I...pollution
        .             .....................
_I.-in                     site
      ................................................................


 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                              91

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July2007




Source: VESDI,April 2007

        Note: -:no subprojects                        0: no impact

                X: minor impact                       XX: medium impact

                XXX: major impact

230. Considering Table 4.6 it is apparent that the subprojects in the North of Central
Region have almost not caused significant environmental pollution.

-               Level of air pollution

231. Only one 1 subproject (of Mr. T.X.D at Truongchau hamlet, Xuantruong,
Nghixuan, Hatinh) of brick production has caused air pollution in the area.
Nevertheless, this subproject is located in the fields and away from population so
the environmental impact to surrounding area is assessed as small.

-               Level of water pollution

232. Most of subprojects in the North of Central Region do not impact on the water
environment. The most significant pollutants are lubricating oil from fishing boats
(12 subprojects). Nevertheless, the volume thereof is well controlled so do not leave
litter to sea and rivers. All husbandry subprojects are small-scales (have only 1- 2
cows or less than 10 pigs) then their waste water arised inconsiderably and the
environmental impact is small.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)      92

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Repot? (Fina1)July 2007

-              Pollution due to solid wastes

233. It can see through the field survey that the solid wastes from the productive
and trading entities which are borrowing the capital from the Project were found
very smalls and therefore they impact to the environment inconsiderably.

-              Pollution due to noise and vibration

234. There is no subproject makes the noise and the vibration measurably to the
surrounding environment,        except some transport's            ones (2 subprojects).
Nevertheless, noise thereto has not greatly influenced on the surrounding
environment.

-              Pollution due to offensive smells

235. The pollution due to offensive smells is assessed as most significant pertaining
to the subprojects in the North of Central Region. They due from the food
processing subprojects (2 subprojects). There are the ones processing seafood
(exemple salted fish, dried seafood, frozen seafood, etc...). The offensive smells
arised from salted, dried or roasted fish, etc. These entities caused the offensive
smells at productive scales and light pollution to the surroundings areas, particularly
during the time these subprojects gather the raw materials.

-               Impacts on aquatic biota

236. The productive and trading entities borrowing from the Project have not caused
significant impacts on the aquatic biota in situ and in the surroundings.

-               Impacts on sensitive ecological zones

237. On the Nord Central Region there are 4 subprojects located near ecologically
sensitive zones, including 2 riverside warps and 2 migration areas of wild animal.
There are 2 subprojects which were environmentally investigated located in the
emigrant bird's areas. There are the families of Mr. T.X.D (Xuantruong) and N.V.V
(Xuanthanh) in Nghixuan district, Hatinh province. These famillys do not
participate to catch birds (like much other families in the region) and therefore the
impacts of these 2 subprojects to biological diversified are inconsiderable. The act
of catching emigrant birds takes a big sum but considered illegal.

238. The aquaculture subproject of Mr. ND.T (Phumy 2 hamlet, Hauloc commune,
Hauloc, Thanhhoa) is located in the river estuary. At present, all the Ma River
estuarine area is converted by local authorities into aquaculture zone. Therefore, the
subproject does not encroach upon the ecological zone that needs protection.

-               Encroachment into cultural, historical and religious sites

239. Only the subproject of Mr. P.D.T (hamlet 17, Sontrung commune, Huongson,
Hatinh) is near the historic relics of Hai-Thuong Lan-Ong. The People Committee
of Hatinh province has planned on developing this relics and expanding it to the
edge of the subproject site. Nevertheless, this subproject does not encroach into this
site.

4.3.4. Subprojects in the South Central and Highland Region




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)        93

 SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July2007

 240. There are 25 subprojects in the South of Central and Highland Region
 accounting for 4.8% of the subprojects investigated in the whole nation).
 Classification of subprojects by sectors is given in Table 4.7 and Figure 4.4.

                         Table 4.7: Classification of subprojects
                    in South Central and Highland Region by sectors

       No.                    Sector                          Subprojects              YO
      I 1    I Fishery                                     I        7           I    28,o            1
      I2     1 Animal husbandry                            I        3           I     12,o           1
        3     Agriculture                                           3                 12,O

       4      Industries - small industries                         2                  870
      I 5    1~ o o processing
                     d                                     I        3           I     12,O           I

     1  7    1Transport and Construction                  1         4           1     16,o           1
   I   8     1Total                                       I        25         I       100            I

                                                              .
                                                             1                             I
                                                               Fishery
                                                            I
                                                               Animal Husbandry            / I
                                                   no,
                                                    70
                                                               Agriculture
               12.0%

                                                                Industries-Small Industries

                                                                                               ~~
                                                              W Food Processing
                 12.0                               .O%

                                                                Trading

                                                              W Transpon Construction
                                                                           -


                       Figure 4.4: Classification of subprojects in

                   the South Central and Highland Region by sectors

 241. The main environmental impacts of the subprojects in the South of Central and
 Highland Region as investigated in the investigation by the Consultants on March
 and April 2007 are shown in details in zone reports and outlined in Table 4.8. This
 Table 4.8 shows that no subproject in the region has major impacts on the
 environment.

  Table 4.8: General assessment on the environmental impacts of subprojects
                      in the South of Central and Highland Region

NO             Sector Fishery     Anima    Agricultu    Industri         Food      Trading        Transpo
                                     I         re            es-       processi                       rt -
                                  Husba                  small            ng                      construc
                                   n d r ~              industrie                                     tion

                                                              S


 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                        94

SRFP -EnvironmentalAssessment Re~ortfFinaf)Jufv2007




Source: VESDI,April 2007

       Note: 0: no impact                    X: minor impact

                XX: medium impact            XXX: major impact
-               Impact on the air, water environment

242. All subprojects in this region are small and the loans are mostly used for
purchasing more equipment and machines. More importantly, they are of the sectors
that cause limited or small environmental impacts.

243. The sector that may causes environmental impacts in this region is food
processing (3 subprojects involving in fish souse processing). The subprojects are
small with limited economic conditions then they have no waste treatment system.
Effluent and solid waste from production facilities are directly discharged to canals
or rivers. Besides, pollution due to offensive smells is noteworthy.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)     95

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July2007

244. 2 out of 3 subprojects in animal husbandry sector have systems for treatment of
solid waste and breeding effluent (biogas pits); the remainder has not treated its
breeding effluent but directly discharged it to nearby lakes, causing environmental
pollution. Nevertheless the latter is small (only several pigs) then the environmental
impact is minor.

-               Impact on aquatic biota

245. Our field observation found that the food processing subprojects have caused
impacts on the aquatic biota in site and in the surroundings. This impact is assessed
as medium.

-              Impacts on sensitive ecological zones

246. In the South of Central and Highland Region, there is no project inside any
sensitive ecological economic zone then there is no impact thereon.

4.3.5. Subprojects in the North East Mekong (NEM) Region

247. There are 61 subprojects in the NEM Region (accounting for 11.7% of the
subprojects investigated in the whole nation). Classification of subprojects by
sectors is given in Table 4.9 and Figure 4.5.

     Table 4.9: Classification of subprojects in the NEM Region by sectors
   /No.    1                 Sector                            Subprojects             YO

      1    1Fishery                                                            1      9.8           1
      2     Animal husband6                                        30                49.2           1
      3     Agriculture                                             2                 3.3
                                                                               1
      4     Industries - small industries                          17                27.9

      5     Food processing                                         2                 3.3

      6     Trading                                                 4                 6.6

            Transport and Construction                              0                 0.0
   I  7
                                                          I

      8     Total                                                  61                 100


                                                           1,   Fishery

                                                              1 Animal Husbandry
                     3.3% 6.6% 0.0%    9.8%

                                                                Agriculture
            27.9%
                                                                Industries-Small Industries

                                                                Food Processing
                                                   .2%

                                                                Trading
                                                              1 Transport - Construction     1 1

     Figure 4.5: Classification of subprojects in the NEM Region by sectors


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                        96

 SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)July 2007

 248. The main environmental impacts of the subprojects in the NEM Region are
 shown in details in a Regional report and outlined in Table 4.10.

                                                             Table 4.10: General assessment on environmental impacts
                                                                         of the subprojects in NEM Region




 -.                         .............---




 .........................................................      -




6 Impacts on


7 Ecologically
        sensitive zone

 Source: VESDI,April 2007

                                                          Note: 0: no impact       -: no subproject

                                                               X: minor impact     XX: intermediate (medium, significant) impact

                                                               XXX: major impact

 The general assessments given in Table 4.10 are proved by information as follows.

 -                                                             Air pollution



  Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                                                 97

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July2007

249. Air pollution is mostly caused by the industry and small industry subprojects
(production of ceramic, plastics, paper, and stone mining and processing).
Nevertheless 64.7% of the subprojects have treatment facilities then the
environmental impact is assessed as medium only. The subprojects of the heaviest
air pollution are involved with production of bricks since technology is obsolete.

-               Pollution due to effluent

250. Water pollution only occurs at the husbandry subprojects. The investigated
subprojects in this sector are breeding cow (33.3% with 10 subprojects) and pig
(66.7% with 20 subprojects).

251. Out of 10 subprojects, 5 subprojects have taken proper measures for waste
management; manure is stored for use as fertilizer and or use for biogas system.
Washing water is used for irrigation of grass field. The 5 remaining subprojects do
not use any measures for pollution control.

252. In the total of 20 subprojects in pig breeding, only 4 subprojects take effective
measures for pollution control. Those measures include biogas pits, frequent wash
of breeding facilities, collection, storage and treatment of solid waste, etc. A typical
good example is the subproject of Mr. N.T.P and N.V.H. Ln this pig farm solid
wastes and wastewater from the pig cages are used for a biogas system for
generation of electricity provided for lighting and heating the farm.

253. While the remaining 80% of subprojects (16 subprojects) take no proper
measures for pollution control or ineffectively take some measures. A typical
subproject is the farm of Mr. L.T.Q., where pig manure and wash water are
collected at a common pit behind the farm causing pollution. In rainy days, effluent
is brought by rain water and spread to the surroundings, causing a significant
pollution. Furthermore, the subproject is located in a populated area then it can
affect local people's health.

-               Pollution due to solid waste

254. Sources of solid waste include animal husbandry, industries and small
industries. Nevertheless, a major part of solid waste is collected or reused.

                   i. Solid waste from animal husbandry: used for feeding biogas
                      pits (9 subproject) or as fertilizers.

                  ii. Solid waste from industries, small industries and handicraJis:
                      sanitary refuse is collected, whereas solid waste from
                      production is reused, for instance, cinder is used for filling
                      roads, etc.

255. Therefore, the impact of solid waste from the subprojects in the NEM Region
is assessed as minor, except for solid wastes from animal husbandry, which is not
well solved, causing serious impacts on the environment.

-               Pollution due to noise and vibration

256. Noise and vibration pollution appear at the subproject of drilling stone at
Tanbuu, Buuhoa, Dongnai Province. Nevertheless this subproject has only involved
in such drilling and excavating as part of an exploitation process then the impact of
noise and vibration is assessed as minor.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)        98

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)July 2007

-                 Pollution due to offensive smells

257. Pollution due to offensive smells from some subprojects in animal husbandry
is assessed as significant. It occurs not at breeding sites, but also at the surrounding.
-                 Impacts on aquatic biota

258. Field observation found that, all subprojects cause no significant impact on the
aquatic biota in site and in the surroundings.
-                 Impacts on sensitive ecological zones

259. Since there is no subproject inside any sensitive ecological zone then there is
no impact thereon.

4.3.6. Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects in the Mekong Delta

260. The Mekong Delta has 132 subprojects in total (accounting for 25.3% of the
subprojects investigated in the whole nation). Classification of subprojects by
sectors is given in Table 4.11 and Figure 4.6.

      Table 4.11: Classification of subprojects in the Mekong Delta by sectors
     INo.     1                 Sector                    I  Subprojects     1         %          1
    1  1 Fishery
     I 2       1Animal husbandry                          I        19         1       1494        /
       3        Agriculture                                        15                 11,4        )
     I 4      1 Industries - small industries             I        14         1       1096        1

     I 6       /Trading                                   I        22         1       167         I
     1 7       1Transport and Construction                I         0         I                   1
                                                                                      O y 0
     1 g       /Total




          1                                                 1Fd Animal Husbandry
                       16.7%       0.0%                                                      1

                                                                Industries-Small Industries

                                                                Food Processing
                                                            1
                                                                Trading

                                                                Transport -Construction



      Figure 4.6: Classification of subprojects in the Mekong Delta by sectors

261. The main environmental impacts of the subprojects in the Mekong Delta are
shown in details in a Regional Report and outlined in Table 4.12.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                      99

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

  Table 4.12: Environmental impacts of the subprojects in the Mekong Delta




Source: VESDI,April 2007

       Note: 0: no impact            -:no subproject

                X: minor impact      XX: medium impact

                XXX: major impact

262. In general, the Mekong Delta Region has no subproject causing major impact
on the environment (Table 4.12). Main impacts of the subprojects in the Mekong
Delta are defined as follows.

-               Air pollution



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)    100

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

263. The subprojects in the Mekong Delta only cause slight air pollution mostly in
the surroundings of their productions.

                   i. 5 aquaculture subprojects (4%) cause air pollution near the
                      ovens where feed is prepared from miscellaneous fish and
                      seafood processing by-products.

                  ii. 5 industry, small industry and handicraft subprojects (36%)
                      cause noticeable air pollution at their production facilities and
                       surroundings (4 subproject of brick production and 1
                       subproject of terra cotta and ceramics). 9 subprojects (64%) in
                      this sector cause pollution due to emissions but that is minor.

                  iii. 3 fuel-trading subprojects cause but minor offensive smell
                      pollution at their trading locations.

-               Pollution due to effluent

264. The pollution due to effluent of the subprojects in the Mekong Delta is mostly
caused by the subprojects of aquaculture, husbandry and food processing.

                    i. 33% of aquaculture subprojects (17 subprojects) in the Mekong
                       Delta have caused water pollution as a result of nutrients and
                       bacteria left over in effluent.

                   ii. 47% of husbandry subprojects (9 subprojects) have caused
                       water pollution around breeding facilities due to breeding
                       effluent.
                  ...
                  111. 14% of agriculture subprojects (2 subprojects) have caused
                       water pollution in the surroundings (field water containing high
                       contents of nutrients and crop protection chemicals watering is
                       discharged to canals and rivers).

                  iv. 9% of foodstuffs subprojects (1 subproject) have caused water
                       pollution due to sanitary wastewater.

Nevertheless, the impact of effluent of the subprojects mentioned above is assessed
as minor.

-               Pollution due to solid waste

265. The pollution due to solid waste is mainly caused by the subprojects of
husbandry, agriculture and food processing.

                    i. 9% of the food processing subprojects (1 subproject) have
                       caused environmental pollution due to solid waste.
                   ..
                   11. 16% of the husbandry subprojects (3 subprojects) have caused
                       environmental pollution because fecal matter is discharged
                       nearby for a long time.

                  iii. 21% of agriculture subprojects (3 subprojects) have caused
                       environmental pollution because of packaging materials and
                       chemicals used in production.

The environmental impact due to solid waste from the subprojects in the Mekong
Delta is assessed as minor.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)       101

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July2007

-               Pollution due to noise and vibration

266. Noise and vibration pollution is caused merely by machines for food
processing (2 subprojects producing flour, accounting for 18% of the total of this
sector). Noise is apparent near those machines yet it is inconsiderable for
surrounding residential areas. As such, the impact of noise in the Mekong Delta is
assessed as small.

-               Pollution due to offensive smells

267. The pollution due to offensive smells is noticeable at the subprojects of
aquaculture, husbandry and fish sauce production.

                    i. 14% of aquaculture subprojects (7 subprojects) have caused
                      pollution due to offensive smells from breeding ponds

                   ii. 50% of husbandry subprojects (9 subprojects) have caused
                      pollution due to offensive smells near breeding facilities and
                       surroundings.
                  ...
                  111. 18% of food processing subprojects (2 subprojects of fish
                      sauce production).

The pollution due to offensive smells is assessed as inconsiderable pertaining to the
subprojects of the industry, small industry and handicraft sector and the trading
sector yet 2 of plastic production, 1 of fish powder production and 1 of feed
production have caused pollution due to offensive smells at their workshops.

                  iv. 5% of fuel-trading subprojects (1 subproject) have caused
                      pollution due to the smell of petrol at the station.

-               Impacts on aquatic biota

268. Our field observation found some aquaculture and husbandry subprojects may
have threatened the aquatic biota in site and in surroundings. That is shown by
eutrophication of ponds, lagoons and canals due to their effluent.

-               Impact on ecologically sensitive zone

269. There are 7 subprojects inside the warp at Nhamat in Baclieu town, Baclieu
province. This is an area planed for shrimp culture from over 10 years ago. No
subproject borrowed money for cutting the mangrove forest in order to expand
breeding area while the loans have been spent on purchases of juvenile aquatic
products and improve the breeding conditions of the available areas. The pollution
is caused in case of diseases and because effluent is discharged directly without
treatment. That in fact affects neighboring shrimp ponds but the impact on the local
ecosystem is assessed as minor.

4.3.7. Subprojects Causing Medium Environmental Impacts

270. The results of on-site environmental assessment show that out of 521 surveyed
subprojects (see the list in Appendix 2.1) there are no subprojects that caused major
environmental impact. 42 of the total are assessed as having medium impacts
(accounting for 8.06%); 479 are assessed as having negative minor impacts or no
impact (accounting for 91.94%).



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development lnstitute (VESDI)     102

SRFP-Environmental AssessmentReport (Fina1)July 2007

271. Of the total, the Red River Delta accounts for up to 14 out of 42 and the
Mekong Delta Region 12 out of 42 subprojects assessed as medium impact (Table
4.13). Most of subprojects of medium impacts belong to the sectors of high
pollution risks (such as industries and small industries, food processing, aquaculture
and breeding).

272. Among 111 subprojects in the group of high pollution risks, only 39 have
caused medium impacts (accounting for 35.13%). The remaining 72 subprojects
have cause only minor impacts.

273. All the subprojects of medium impacts have no or improper waste treatment
facilities. That is the main reason of negative impacts on the environment. Those
subprojects are of the sectors of small- industry, industry or animal husbandry.
Before July 01,2006, a major part of those subprojects were not subject to
undertaking "Registration to Meet the Environmental Standards". Nevertheless,
from July 01,2006, pursuant to the amended Law on Environmental Protection, all
production-business entities, if not subject to make EIA reports, should sign the
"Commitment in Environmental Protection".

274. Although those 42 subprojects are assessed by the consultant as of medium
impacts (by means of site st;dy and reference to people's complaints), they are not
treated by local authorities (Departments of Natural Resources and Environment of
provinces and Divisions of Natural Resources and Environment of district). It is
perhaps the level of infringement is not serious.

          Table 4.13: Subprojects of high risk in ecological economic zones
                                                                   -
                                             I          I                  Negative impacts
 !      I                                    [                                                 1
                                                            O/O in                      Small o
  No.     Ecological   - economic Region                1
                                                           region IMediumI                 no
                                                                                         impact
 ---
    1     Northern Mountainous Midland       1    16    1    16.3              5      111

 1 3     1North of Central                   1     6    1 1 0 . 5 1             1     1    5     1
   4                                                        68.0               2           17
 -
                                                                                      P           1
                                             I
   5      Northeast Mekong                   1    17                                       9


   8      Total

Source: VESDI, 2007

The list of 42 production    - business units (subprojects) caused medium impacts on
the environment is given in Table 4.1 (Appendix 4).

4.4. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF SUBPROJECTS BY SECTORS

275.      Classification of the 521 investigated subprojects by the sectors in the field
surveys is given in Table 2.11 and Figure 2.3 (Chapter Two). Referring to Table
2.11, the subprojects of fishery (aquaculture and fishing) account for the highest
proportion, followed by the subprojects of animal husbandry and industries and
small scale industries. The three sectors make up the major part of the subprojects


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development ~ n s t i t u t e ( V ~ ~ ~ ~ )   103

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)July 2007

(74.5%). The subprojects of the remaining sector account for 25.5% only. The
environmental impacts of subprojects by sectors are directly assessed by means of
site study at every production entities. That is the impact of each entity, not the
impacts accumulated by many entities in the same region. A comprehensive
assessment of typical environmental impacts of subprojects in sectors is outlined
below.

4.4.1. EIA on the Subprojects of the Fishery Sector

276. This sector includes 148 subprojects (accounting for 28.4% of subprojects in
the whole country). Classification of those subprojects by ecological - economic
regions is given in Table 2.5 (Chapter Two) and Figure 4.7. Out of 148 subprojects
there are 19 fishing subprojects (12 in the North of Central and 7 in the South of
Central and Highland), the remainders involve in aquaculture (fish, shrimp and
crab).

277. According to Table 2.5 and Figure 4.7, the Red River Delta and the Mekong
Delta have the most aquaculture subprojects (70.3 % of the total of this sector).


                                                                Northern Mountainous
                                                                Midland Region

                                                                Red Rier Delta
                                       10.1%
                                                                North of Central


                                                                South of Central and
                                                  35.8%
                                                                Highland Region

                                                                Northeast Mekong


                                                                Mekong Delta




Figure 4.7: Classificationof fishery subprojectsby ecological-economicregions

278. Main aquatic products are selected dependent on conditions of local water
environment, climate and hydrology.
   -   In the Northern Mountainous Midland Region: fish species of fresh, brackish
       and saline water are bred (mud carp, shrimp, and garrupa, etc.)
   -   In the Red River Delta, the main products include mud carp, carp, dory and
       African carp, etc.
   -   In the North of Central, the sector mainly involve with shrimp, crab and
       coastal fishing
   -   In the South of Central and Highland Region there is only offshore fishing
   -   In the Northeast Mekong, fresh water fish is preferred, namely basa, mullet,
       and common tiger prawn, etc.
   -   The Mekong Delta mostly produces cross-bred catfish, basa and seashore
       shrimp breeding, etc.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         104

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July2007

The main environmental impacts of the aquaculture and fishing sector are defined
below.

4.4.1.1.Aquaculture

    Encroachment upon agricultural land

279. Aquaculture subprojects need large land areas but they no choice but full use
of agricultural land, water (ponds, lagoons, canals, rivers), seashore, barren land and
a part of agricultural land (converted from rice fields into aquaculture land).

280. Although the acreages of agricultural and residential land are reduced, people's
income from agriculture is much higher than the turnover from cultivation of rice
and subsidiary crops. Therefore, the impact of encroachment upon agricultural and
residential land is small when compared with the socio-economic benefits brought
by the subprojects.

    Encroachment upon sensitive ecosystems

281. The Northern Mountainous Midland Region: There are 1 subproject inside the
mangrove forest along the Chanh River and 1 subproject inside the buffer zone of
the Halong World's Natural Heritage. Nevertheless, owners of those subprojects
have actively complied with regulations on environmental protection and neither
pollution nor negative impact on those sensitive ecosystems.

282. The Red River Delta Region: With no subproject inside any ecologically
sensitive zone, there is no impact thereon.

283. The North of Central Region: There is 1 subproject in the riverside of the
Lechtruong River. The effluent after harvest or in case of any disease is discharged
to the river without treatment, polluting thereof. This impact is assessed as medium
but notfrequent.

284. The South of Central and Highland Region: there is no aquaculture subproject
inside any sensitive ecosystem and obvio,uslythere no impact thereon.

285. The Northeast Mekong: there is no aquaculture subproject inside any sensitive
ecosystem and obviously there no impact thereon.

286. TheMekong Delta: There are 7 subprojects located not far the mangrove forest
of Nhamat - Baclieu town - Baclieu province. All subprojects area has planned for
shrimp culture over 10 years ago. Now, there is no mangrove forest within area of
lOOOm around the subprojects. The direct impact on the ecosystems of this
subproject is assessed as small. Nevertheless, the impact on the coastal wetland
ecosystems is a latent environmental consideration.

    Encroachment upon historic, cultural and religious sites

287. All aquaculture subprojects do not encroach upon any historic and cultural
work. There are, however, some subprojects near cemeteries or some tombs yet the
distance thereto is at least 200 m. Therefore, there is no impact on cultural, historic
and religious works.

    Impact on underground water quality

288. Water from breeding ponds and lagoons with high salinity can infiltrate and
pollute underground water layers. There is, however, no background to assess the


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)       105

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

impact of salinity because of such water infiltration since no quantitative study on
this topic.

     Impact due to waste matters from breeding ponds and lagoons

289. Waste matters from breeding ponds and lagoons include effluent and waste
mud from replacement of water and dredging. Dredging is carried out in different
time, depending on each subproject. Usually, that occurs after harvest or when
bubbles are seen in breeding ponds.

       Effluent

290. The effluent from fish or shrimp ponds (not only subprojects under SRFP)
contain nutrients, chemicals and bacteria, that is a source of water pollution to the
surroundings. The impact due to effluent from shrimp ponds is found in case of any
disease and discharge of effluent to the environment without treatment as it spreads
epidemic diseases and pollute the water environment.

291. The investigation, however found most of the subprojects in the Northern
Mountainous Midland Region, the Red River Delta and the South of Central Region
have not caused clear pollution to the environment and the impact of the effluent
from breeding ponds is assessed as minor. Nevertheless, for some subprojects in the
North of Central, the Northeast Mekong and the Mekong Delta Regions pollution
due to effluent and offensive smells from breeding ponds and the environmental
impact thereof is assessed as medium.

        Wastemud

292. Spoil from breeding pond has high contents of nutrients, organic matters and
bacteria. It can cause pollution to water as well as soil around its dump site
Nevertheless, operation of the subprojects is not frequent, and moreover, the surface
area of breeding ponds is limited and the volume of spoil is limited and used as
fertilizers then the environmental impact thereof is assessed as minor.

    Increase in water borne diseases

293. Theoretically, aquaculture ponds can create proper conditions for growth of
water vectors such as mosquito and larva related to diseases such as malaria, dengue
fever, etc. Besides, water from aquaculture ponds may contain bacteria and
pathogens. Nevertheless, there is no claim on borne disease was recorded through
interviews with neighboring people and there is therefore no background to assess
this impact.

    Increase in diseases for fish and shrimps

294. At some subprojects appeared epidemic diseases related to aquaculture
products such as the red body and pussy liver disease of basa fish, white spot
epidemic of shrimp in the Mekong Delta or fish died in mass at some subprojects in
the North of Central Region (Box 4.1, Appendix 4). Spreading diseases does not
frequently appear but their impact, if any, on subproject owners and the
environment is assessed as medium.

     Impactofwasteoil

295. The subprojects in the South of Central and the Mekong Delta Regions are
breeding fish at high density then they must use aerating machines to increase

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)     106

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)July 2007

oxygen concentration. If discharged, waste oil thereto becomes a source of water
pollution. Nevertheless, since the volume of waste oil is limited and many
subproject owners have taken proper measures for collection, the impact of waste
oil in the environment is assessed as small.

4.4.1.2. Fishing sector

296. The fishery sector has been developed mostly in the coastal areas of the North
of Central and the South of Central Regions. Main impacts of fishing on the natural
and socio-economic environments are as follows.

     Decline of seafood resources

297. In some regions, the coastal fishing fails to abide by regulations, for instance,
fishing in reproduction seasons, using illegal tools etc seafood resources may be
declined. Neverthelessjn the SRFP there is not a visited subproject using illegal
measures in fishing.

     Waste oil from fishing boats

298. Spreading of oil from fishing boats also causes negative impacts on sea water.
Nevertheless, with loans, most of subproject owners have upgraded their boats so
there is no leakage of oil to the sea. Besides, most of subprojects owners are well
aware of environmental protection, waste oil from fishing has been stored and
transported to mainland for treatment therein, that is not to indiscriminately
discharge to the sea. Therefore, this impact is assessed as small.

4.4.2. Animal Husbandry Sector

299. The husbandry sector includes 132 subprojects (accounting for 25.3% of the
investigated subprojects). Classification of husbandry subprojects by ecological -
economic zones is given in Table 2.6 (Chapter Two) and Figure 4.8.

300. The main subject matters of the husbandry subprojects include pig, cow,
poultry and others such as goat, rabbit and stag, etc. They are concentrated in the
Red River Delta, the Mekong Delta the Northern Mountainous Midland Region
(Figure 4.8)


                                                       Northern Mountainous
                                                       Midland Region

                                                       Red Riwr Delta


                                                       North of Central


                                                       South of Central and
                                                       Highland Region

                                                       Northeast Mekong


                                                       Mekong Delta




                 Figure 4.8: Classification of husbandry subprojects
                           by ecological-economic regions

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)      107

SRFP -Environmental Assessment RepoH (Fina1)July2007

    Pollution due to offensive smells

301. At most of the subprojects, the pollution due to offensive smells is noticeable
in the breeding facilities (at most subprojects) yet it is significantly reduced at the
distance of 50 m thereto. It is noteworthy that some households still discharge
breeding waste matters right beside their houses, causing offensive smells to
neighbors.

302. Nevertheless, many subprojects, particularly in the Red River Delta have taken
measures to treat animal wastes (for instance, biogas pits) then the impact of
offensive smells on the environment is assessed as inconsiderable (small) and local.
While various pig and cow breeding subprojects in the South Central, Northeast
Mekong and Mekong Delta Regions still pollute the environment by odor (Box 4.2,
Appendix 4).

    Pollution due to breeding solid wastes

303. This kind of solid waste from subprojects is mostly manures of pig, cow,
poultry and the like. It is however used for:
   -   Feeding fish (at most of subprojects in the Red River Delta).
   -   Fertilizing rice fields (in the Mekong Delta).
   -   Feeding biogas pits (at 22 subprojects in the Red River Delta, 29 subprojects
       in the Northern Mountainous Midland Region, 8 subprojects in the Mekong
       Delta etc.) for production of biogas to be used for cooking.

304. Therefore, the impact of solid waste from many husbandry subprojects on the
environment is assessed as small (inconsiderable), yet some subprojects in this
sector cause medium impacts on the environment. Nevertheless, the percentage of
30-35% of pig fanns installing biogas system in this project shows that the
subprojects borrowing from the project have improved significantly the
environment in comparison with the overall situation of the husbandry sector in
Vietnam.

    Pollution due to wastewaters

305. Breeding effluent has high contents of organic matters, nutrients and bacteria.
In case of no management and treatment, this kind of effluent can lead to
environmental pollution. Investigations shows that surface water (ponds, lakes,
canals and the like) around breeding facilities is polluted due to breeding effluent.

306. Nevertheless, the breeding effluent from about 50% of the subprojects is
treated by means of biogas pits and integration with aquaculture. Therefore, the
impact of breeding effluent from many subprojects on the environment is assessed
as small even though about 50% of subprojects have caused medium impacts.

    Impact on groundwater quality

307. At some subprojects, groundwater is able to be harmed because of exploitation
for sanitation and cleaning of breeding cages. Containing high concentrations of
BOD, SS and bacteria, breeding effluent can infiltrate to and pollute underground
water. Since there is no detailed study, there is no background for assessing on this
impact.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)       108

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July2007

    Increase in water borne diseases

308. Effluent from animal cages usually has high content of bacteria and pathogens
that are causative of water borne epidemics. Nevertheless, in the interviews with
people residing next to the visited pig farms, there was no claim related to water
borne diseases and this impact is therefore assessed as inconsiderable (practically:
unknown).

    Epidemics at animals

309. According to interviewed subproject owners, some epidemics (congestive
disease at pig and bird flu in many areas in the country) have caused numerous
difficulties to many husbandry subprojects. In many areas, such diseases have led
not only to big loss of subprojects owner but also environmental pollution. The
epidemics are not frequent but impact to the environment (Box 4.2 in Appendix 4).
That is the most important impact on the animal husbandry sector and therefore
environmental management agencies, the BIDV and PFIs should pay special
attention in order to provide proper management measures so as to limit the
potentiality and spreading of epidemics.

    Encroachment upon sensitive ecosystems

310. Only 1 husbandry subproject on the shore of Bongcanh reservoir at
Muongkhom town, Hoabinh province is inside an ecologically sensitive zone.
Nevertheless, it is small (some cows) then the impact on the lakeshore ecosystem is
assessed as minor.

4.4.3. Environmental Impacts of the Agricultural Subprojects

311.The agricultural sector includes 43 subprojects (accounting for 8.3% of the
investigated subproject in the whole country). Classification of agricultural
subprojects by ecological - economic regions is given in Table 2.7 (Chapter Two)
and Figure 4.9. The subprojects are concentrated in the Northern Mountainous
Midland Region (27.9%), the North of Centfal (25.6%) and the Mekong Delta
Region (34.9%).
                                                             n
                                                             EI Northern Mountainous
                                                                Midland Region

                                                                Red River Delta


                                                                                    I
                                                                North of Central


                                                             aSouth of Central and
                                                                Highland Region

                                                                Northeast Mekong

                                                                                    I
                                                             L  Mekong Delta




                Figure 4.9: Classification of agricultural subprojects
                           by ecological - economic regions


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          109

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Re~ortfFina1)Julv2007

312. The agricultural subprojects involve mainly in forestation, orchard, rice fields,
and gardening in integration with husbandry (model of garden-pond-pigsty). In
general,    the   investigated   agricultural     subprojects have        contributed into
environmental protection as follows:
   -   Improvement of the covering degree of land (the reforestation subprojects)
   -   Prevention of soil erosion and landslide
   -   Improvement of agricultural environment and ecosystems

100% of subprojects in this sector do cause no air pollution, noise and vibration.
The most consideration with respect to agricultural subprojects is solid waste. Solid
waste caused from agricultural subprojects include:
   -   Covers, trunks, leaves, foots, and roots of harvested plans

   - Fertilizer and pesticide packages

313.Nevertheless, a major part of such solid waste has been reused as follows:
   -   Post harvest matters are burned at fields to convert them into fertilizers or
       used as fuel.
   -   Packaging bags of fertilizers are well washed and reused for containing farm
       products.
   -   Bottles and pots of pesticides are collected and buriedltreated together with
       sanitary refuse.

Therefore, the impact of solid waste from agriculture is assessed as small.

314.In the Northern Mountainous Midland Region there is 1 subproject inside the
buffer zone of Cucphuong National Park, Nevertheless, this subproject aimed at
expanding its farm for planting trees then it cause no negative impact on the
landscape and ecosystem of therein (Box 4.3, Appendix 4).

4.4.4. Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects of the Sector of Industry and
Small Scale Industry

315. This sector includes 108 subprojects (accounting for 20.7% of the subprojects
investigated in the whole country). Classification of subprojects of this sector by
ecological - economic regions is given in Table 2.8 (Chapter Two) and Figure 4.10.
The subprojects are mainly concentrated in the Red River Delta (51.9% of the
selected industry - small scale industry subprojects in the country) (Table 2.8).




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          110

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina[)July2007



                                                                    Trung du mi&n nui
                                                                    phia BAc

                                                                    Dbng bdng sang
                     13.0%              13.9%                       ~ b n g

                                                                    Bdc Trung BQ


                                                                    Nam Trung BQ-
                                                                    T3y Nguyen

                                                                    DBng Nam BQ


                                                                    Dbng bdng sang
                                                                    CGu Long


       Figure 4.10: Classificationof industry - small industry subprojects
                           by ecological- economic regions
316. The industry - small scale industry subprojects involve in main productions as
follows:

   -   Paper production and recycling

   - Wood production and processing
    -  Brick production

    -  Plastic 'processing

    -  Mechanical processing

    -  Production of ceramics

    -  Foodstuff for cattle production

    -  Packaging production
    -  Others such as drilling stone, repairing ships, vehicles, etc.

317.The results of the field surveys found 100% of the subprojects of the SRFP are
not located inside or near any buffer zone of natural reserves or sensitive ecological
region.

318.The environmental pollution due to industrial waste is the most consideration
with respect to the subprojects of industries - small scale industries sector. Their
polluting level is dependent on type of production, location, production line and
environmental control efficiency. The environmental considerations of main
productions are defined below.

4.4.4.1. Paper production and recycling

319. The paper production and recycling sub-sector includes 22 subprojects,
accounting for 20.4% of the total of the selected subprojects of this sector. The
subprojects are mostly concentrated in the Red River Delta (16 subprojects,
accounting for 72% of investigated subprojects of paper production). A major part
of those entities (units) involves in paper recycling with main products such as toilet
paper and cardboard, etc. with the main impacts assessed as follows.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          111

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007


    Pollution due to wastewaters

320. Pollution due to wastewaters is the most consideration with respect to the
subprojects of paper production in general, and paper recycling in particular. The
effluents fiom paper recycling entities are production wastewater, workshop-wash
water and runoff water. Those effluents contain SS, colorants, organic matters,
black liquid containing lignin and white liquid containing pulp, etc. According to
interviews, the production of each ton of product consumes 50 m3 of water. In
practice, this kind of effluent is returned so as to make full use of pulp remained
therein.

321. Some paper mills (5 out of 22 subprojects) produce 50 to 150 m3 of effluent
yet their effluent treatment systems are well operated, in which treated effluent is
returned and waste mud is transported to dump sites of provinces/districts then the
impact of the effluent thereof on the environment is assessed as small. The
remaining entities (17 out of 22) have caused environmental pollution in sitti and in
the surroundings since all kinds of effluent are discharged to the environment
without treatment (typically at the village of traditional production of Duong-0
village and Phongkhe Industrial Park in Yenphong district, Bacninh province).

    Pollution due to air emissions

322. The main components of the emissions from paper recycle entities include flue
gas from coal burning (100% of the investigated entities have use coal as fie1 for
their boilers), chemical vapors (chlorine, solvent vapors, etc.) and dust fiom local
traffic. As such, the most attentive components are dust and toxic gases (SOz,CO,
NOx, etc.).
    -   All paper entities use coal as fuel for their boilers but most of them have no
        emission treatment facility and only 6 out of 22 entities have installed
        chimneys with appropriate heights).
    -   In addition to dust in emissions, most paper entities generate dust in the
        segmenting steps.

From the judgments mentioned above, it is possible to assess that pollution due to
air emissions of the subprojects is a noteworthy consideration.

    Noise pollution

323. 100% of entities have used noisy machines. Nevertheless, noise is noticeable
only in the adjacency of segmenting machines. Out of that radius, noise pollution is
minor.

    Pollution due to offensive smells

324. Offensive smells in those entities are of chlorine and solvents that are present
in the steps of bleaching, milling and loosening.
    -   Evaporated solvents and bleaching chemicals (chlorine) are present at 100%
        of the investigated entities that may effect to the health of workers at
        workplace and surrounding people as well.
    -   Offensive smells are rather strong at many subprojects because effluent is
        discharged to sewage without treatment.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)      112

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

Therefore, the impact of offensive smells of the paper subprojects is assessed as
medium.

    Pollution due to solid waste

325. The solid waste from paper entities includes production waste matters, mostly
bottom ash, iron scrap (staple) and waste paper, etc.
   -   Bottom ash: the amount of bottom ash is large, equal to 10% of coal used as
       fuel. Nevertheless, bottom ash is sold to people for other uses such as landfill
       and brick production, etc.
   -   The amount of iron scrap is very limited and it is sold to iron recycling
       entities
   -   Waste paper is sold to other manufacturing entities

Therefore, the impact of solid waste at paper entities is assessed as minor.

    Work health and safety

326. Although there is no official statistic data, through site study it is found that the
most considerations related to work health and safety at paper productions and
paper recycling entities are:
   -   Workers' occupational diseases: diseases and conditions related to respiratory
       organs and skin such as sore throat, angina, pharyngitis, headache,
       pneumonia, sinusitis, etc. and ulceration as a result of air pollution.

   -   Electric shocks to workers, particularly the one who directly operate electrical
       machines or who work at wet places.
   -   Work accidents at the workers who work near heavy duty machines (for
       instance, winch, cylinder machine, etc.).

327. The impacts on worker health are difficult to assess because a work accident
may occur anytime if there is no proper management. It is however stated that if
adequate labor protection means are provided with workers, the risk is lowered.
Therefore, this impact is assessed as negative but mitigable. In fact, many paper
recycling entities have not paid adequate attention to work safety and protection.

328. It is determined from investigations that most subprojects involving in paper
recycling are causative of medium impacts on the environment (included in the list
of 42 subprojects of this type). Nevertheless, those subprojects existed before
borrowing loans from the project. In the past, they caused pollution to water an air
as typically shown by Duong-0 tradition village and Phongkhe Industrial Park in
Bacninh. The financial support from the project helped boost their productions, and
at the same time, increase the flow of emissions, effluents, and solid waste.
Nevertheless, the project urged subproject owners to undertake to protect the
environment and consequently, it helped them get better awareness of pollution
control.

329. The basic cause of long-lasting pollution in Duong-0 is that local authorities
could not develop suitable infrastructure for treatment of effluent and solid waste
for the whole village due to financial limits and lack of site. The incomes of most of
the households in this village depend on paper recycling, therefore, most


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (TESDI)          113

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

households, including those borrowing money from the SRFP, do not concern to
waste treatment. Pollution of the Ngu huyen Khe River is caused by the effluent
from all paper recycling enterprises in the village but not only from the subprojects.

4.4.4.2. Woodproduction andprocessing

330. This sub-sector includes 32 subprojects, accounting for 29.6% of the
investigated subprojects of the industry - small scale industry sector. The
subprojects are mainly concentrated in the Red River Delta (25 subprojects,
accounting for 78% of the total of the 6 selected zones).

    Pollution due to wastewaters

331. Sanitary wastewater is the only effluent from wood production and processing
entities. Its daily production is discharged to any ditch or a common sew.
Nevertheless, with a limited volume, this kind of effluent causes minor
environmental impact.

    Level of air pollution

332. Air pollution is the most consideration at wood production and processing
entities. However, most of investigated entities are located outside populated areas,
in general, their impacts on the air environment area assessed as minor with details
given below.

       Dustpollution

333. Dust at wood productions is sawdust from sawing especially polishing and
processing. At those entities, the concentrations of suspended solid is very high,
particularly in the polishing zones, where dust is very fine and easy to diffuse to
influence people's health. Therefore, the air pollution during work time inside
entities is medium but the pollution outside is minor or no impact.

       Vapors of chemicals

334. The raw materials used in the step include adhesives, alcohols, varnish,
gasoline and oil. Therefore, in addition to wood dust, those entities produce vapors
of varnish, petrol, oil and solvents, etc., which may threaten people's health.
However, those vapors cause no impact on the environment outside those entities.

       Noise pollution

335. The sources of noise at wood production entities are machines for sawing,
planning, drilling, etc. According to our investigation, 80% wood production
entities have used those machines for processing wood and the remainders have it
outsourced or located their sawing workshops elsewhere, meaning that only the
finishing step is carried out at the sites of those subprojects.

336. Noise from said machines is heavy and though the subprojects have taken
control measures, our investigation found high noise levels at 80% of subprojects.
Nevertheless, at the distance larger than 50 m, noise is significantly reduced.

337. From the judgments mentioned above, it is assessed that noise pollution due to
the wood production and processing subprojects is medium but the impact is small
or no impact outside the workshops.

    Pollution due to solid waste

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)     114

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

338. The solid waste from wood production entities includes sawdust and wood
ends. Those kinds of solid waste are collected by subproject owners for using as
fuel or selling too wood production entities. Therefore, the impact of solid waste at
wood production entities is assessed as small.

    Work health and safety

339. By means of site study into subprojects in the wood processing sector, it is
found that the matters that may occur related to work health and safety include:
    -  Respiratory diseases: pneumonia, rhinitis, sinusitis and the like.
    -  Diseases caused by strong noise.
    -  High rate of backache: resulted from sitting long for scrupulous works.
    -  Electric shock: easy to occur, particularly the ones who directly operate
       electrical machines.

From the field surveys it may find that most of the subprojects have production
areas but equipment, apparatus for working protection as poor (comforter, mask,
noise prevented tools) which do not meet the Guideline of the Government,

4.4.4.3. Brick production

340. There are 13 subprojects of brick production, accounting for 12% of
subprojects of the industry small scale industry sector. Most of the subprojects are
                             -
located Red River Delta (04 subprojects) and Mekong River Delta (04 subprojects)
in the fields where population density is low.

341. The main impacts of brick production are assessed as follows:
    -   100% of the subprojects have produced emissions from burning coal for
       firing bricks. The emissions from coal kilns have high contents of particulate
       matters, SO2,NOx, etc. Although those entities installed chimneys, without
       emission treatment technology still they cause air pollution.
    -  The solid waste here is mostly cinder and broken bricks, which are sold by
       subproject owners for people to fill roads or for production of low-grade
       bricks (for building kitchens or embanking ponds, etc.). Therefore, the
       impact of solid waste is assessed as small.
    -   100% of subprojects have caused offensive smells (of flue gas), which are
       however noticeable only within a certain radius from the kiln then the impact
       thereof on the environment is assessed as small.
    -  In addition, the subprojects have somehow affected people's health as shown
       by respiratory and dermal diseases, not to say work accidents such as bums
       and scalds due to steam, hot things. Yet there is no medical data to prove that
       influence.

Box 4.4 (Appendix 4) describes negative environmental impacts of a brick
production subproject.

4.4.4.4. Plastic and Resin Processing

342. The sector of plastic production includes 10 subprojects, accounting for 13%
of the investigated subprojects in the industry - small scale industry. In general, the


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)      115

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)July 2007

most consideration of the plastic subprojects is the smell of plastics from production
workshops (plastic smell is noticeable at 100% of the investigated subprojects).

343. At some subprojects, air pollution occurs at the production workshops where
volatile organic compounds (VOC) are emitted from the melting of polymers).

344. The production effluent of 100%of the subproject is cooling water, which does
not contain pollutants. Only sanitary wastewater of entities may pollute the
surroundings.

345. The solid wastes from the subprojects include sanitary refuse, plastic granules,
nylon package, plastic ends, etc. Sanitary refuse is collected together with similar
ones of nearby entities, whilst production solid waste is collected, reused or sold to
other recycling entities then the environmental impact is inconsiderable.

Box 4.5 (Appendix 4) describes environmental management of a typical subproject
in the sub-sector of plastics and polymers. In general, some subprojects in the
plastic recycling sector have caused medium impacts. A major of subprojects in the
sector only cause minor impacts.

4.4.4.5. Mechanical processing

346. This sub-sector includes 10 subprojects, accounting for 9.3% of the
investigated subprojects of the industry- small scale industry. The main impact of
the subprojects is noise and vibration from machines for hammering, soldering and
the like. It is found from investigation that 80% of subprojects have caused
pollution due to noise and vibration inside the workshops. That is a common
problem of mechanical workshops in Vietnam. The mechanical subprojects in the
project have caused minor impacts related to effluents and waste solid.

347. Typical environmental matters of some mechanical subprojects that cause
apparent pollution are described in details in Box 4.6 (Appendix 4). In general,
environmental impact of mechanical processing is minor.

4.4.4.6. Other kinds ofproductions

348. Accounting for 18.5% of the subprojects, other kinds of productions are
diverse, each of which includes 1 to 2 subprojects with various environmental
impacts.

For instance:
   -   The subprojects of stone drilling in the Northeast Mekong Region with the
       most considerations of dust, noise and vibration
   -   The most consideration of the subprojects of ceramic production is solid
       waste.
   -   For subprojects in rice processing, the environmental matters are noise and
       inside, air pollution

Since there are limits of subprojects, which are small and scattering, it is very
difficult to draw an accurate conclusion with respect to all these remaining
subprojects.

349. In general, many subprojects in the industry and small-scale industry cause
medium impacts due to effluents, emissions, waste solid and noise. Nevertheless, as

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)      116

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007

mentioned in Table 2.4, the subprojects of this sector account for only 0.24% and
the total loans granted thereto account for merely 2.34% of the total capital of the
project. Therefore, their contribution into environmental impacts is considered
minor in view of all subprojects in the project.

4.4.5. Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects of the Food Processing Sector

350. The food processing sector includes 20 subprojects (only accounting for 3.8%
of the subprojects selected for the 6 regions). Classification of subprojects of the
food processing sector by ecological - economic regions is given in Table 2.9
(Chapter Two) and Figure 4.11. The subprojects are mainly concentrated in the
Mekong Delta Region (11out of 20 subprojects, accounting for 55%).


                                                                Northern Mountainous
                                                                Midland Region

                                                                Red Rmr Delta
                               0.0%    10.0%
                                                  .O%
                                                                North of Central


                                                                South of Central and
              55.0%                               15.0%
                                                                Highland Region
                                           10.0%                Northeast Mekong


                                                                Mekong Delta
                                                             I

             Figure 4.11: Classificationof food processing subprojects
                           by ecological - economic regions

351.This sector also has various productions such as confectionary (2 subprojects);
seafood processing (mostly production of fish sauce) (8 subprojects); cashew nut
processing (2 subprojects); ice making (6 subprojects); and wheat flour production
(2 subprojects). The results obtained from the field surveys in March and April
2007 found a major part of those entities have not caused pollution to the
environment, due to their effluent, emission and solid waste are limited.

352. The most consideration is pollution due to offensive smells from fish sauce
entities though they have maintained their facilities in good hygienic conditions,
effluent is treated in septic tanks and pollution is thereby limited. Still, offensive
smells emit when raw materials are gathered and prepared.

The environmental considerations of two typical subprojects in the food processing
sector are described in Box 4.7 in Appendix 4.

4.4.6. Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects of the Trading Sector

353. The trading sector includes 47 subprojects (accounting for only 9.0% of the
subprojects investigated in 6 regions). Classification of subprojects of the trading
sector by ecological - economic regions is given in Table 2.10 (Chapter Two) and
Figure 4.12. The subprojects of this sector are mainly concentrated in the Mekong
Delta (22 out of 47 subprojects, accounting for 46.8%).



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          117

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (FinaOJuly2007

         I                                                 r---Northern Mountainous
                                                               Midland Region
         I
                                                               Red Rier Delta
                                          ,-19.1%

                                                               North of Central


                                                               South of Central and
                                                               Highland Region
                                 8.5%     6.4%                 Northeast Mekong
                                                           1                        I
                                                            LI Mekong Delta




                  Figure 4.12: Classification of trading subprojects
                           by ecological - economic regions

354. The main forms of this sector are trading in agriculture materials, fuels,
construction materials, seafood and restaurants, etc. The results of the field surveys
found no pollution due to noise, vibration as well as any toxic waste matters of all
of the trading subprojects. All subprojects produce no significant volumes of
emissions, effluents or waste solid and therefore no environmental impact.

355. Theoretically, the most consideration with respect to the subprojects is high
risk of fire and explosion. Nevertheless, during the field survey, such risk is not yet
detected. Therefore, the environmental impact of the subprojects is also assessed as
minor yet there are latent risks of fire and explosion.

4.4.7. Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects of the Sector of Transport
and Construction

356. This sector includes 23 subprojects (accounting for only 4.4% of the total in
the whole selected subprojects of the SRFP). Classification of the subprojects of this
sector by ecological - economic regions is given in Table 2.11 (Chapter Two) and
Figure 4.13. The subprojects are mainly concentrated in the Northern Mountainous
Midland Region (13/23 subprojects, accounting for 56.5%).

357. In general, the transport subprojects have not caused any significant pollution
to the environment because the subproject owners borrowed money for buying 1 to
2 trucks each or buying some spare part in construction. The main impacts of this
sector include:
    -  Air pollution (dust and noise) when trucks are in traffic. Nevertheless, this
       impact is assessed as minor.
    -  Solid waste includes the most considerations such as oily cloths, waste oil
       and oil-contaminated tanks. Nevertheless, the amount of oily solid waste is
       limited and waste oil is sold to other entities then there is only minor impact
       on the environment.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and SustainableDevelopmentInstitute (VESDI)            118

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Fina1)July 2007



                                                               Northern Mountainous
                                                               Midland Region

                                                             w Red Rier Delta


                                                               Northof Central


                                                               South of Central and
                                                  56.5%
                                                               Highland Region
                                                             w Northeast Mekong

                                                               Mekong Delta




    Figure 4.13: Classification of subprojects of the sector of transport and
                    construction by ecological - economic regions

4.4.8. General Remarks upon Environmental Impacts of the Subprojects under
the SRFP
358. Out of 521 subprojects borrowing loansfrom the SRFP, some subprojects in
the sectors of industry and small scale industry, animal husbandry,food processing
and aquaculture have caused medium negative impacts on the environment.

The medium impacts mentioned in this study is applicable only to comparison of
environmental impacts among the subprojects surveyed under the SRFP, which is
not the same as definition of medium level used for assessment of large-sized
projects according to the WB or Vietnam's classification (those projects should
make detailed EIA reports).

359. The environmental impacts of the subprojects in remaining sectors are small
or no impact and the impactingscopes thereof are not large.

360. The aforementioned conclusions are correct with respect to 521 subprojects
surveyed across the country. That will provide abundant and confident information
for general assessment of the environmental impacts of the other 100,000
subprojects under SRFP which have the same scales and productions.                   The
information obtained from this study also provides good lessonsfor integration of
environmental consideration into economic activities in the next phase of the
project as well as in other projects for fostering small and medium productions in
rural areas of Vietnam.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         119


SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                    July 2007


                                    CHAPTER FIVE

     RECOMMENDATIONS ON ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
 PROGRAM (MEASURES FOR MITIGATION OF NEGATIVE IMPACTS
   AND COMPLIANCE WITH THE ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES)


361. Considering results of the assessment on the compliance with environmental
guidelines by PFIs and subprojects (Chapter Three) and environmental impacts of
subprojects (Chapter Four), as well as lessons learnt from the environmental
management under the SRFP, in order to improve the integration of environmental
protection into production-business activities, in the future BIDV, PFIs and
subproject owners are recommended to implement the following Environmental
Management Program (EMP) suggested by the Consultant.

5.1. MEASURES IN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FOR TCIII OF
THE BIDV IN THE FUTURE

362. The Transaction Center I11 (TCIII) is a unit established by the BIDV for
management of Government's projects and international cooperation. The TCIII set
up an Environmental Management Division (EMD) for environmental management
of the BIDV's projects. To date, out of state owned and joint stock commercial
banks in Vietnam, BIDV is the first and only bank that has a division specializing in
environmental management (in Vietnam, only ministries have departments of
science, technology and environment, only provinces/cities have environmental
management divisions under Departments of Natural Resources and Environment).
The establishment and operation of the Environmental Management Division within
the TCIII demonstrates BIDV's attention to association of environmental protection
with its financial business. Within the scope of the SRFP, the Environmental
Management Division of the           TCIII should more effectively implement the
following activities:

       (i) Improvement of EMD 'scapacity

363. The TC I11 and BIDV should improve the current EMD in terms of staffing,
scope of work and tasks; specializing skills of environmental management and
protection of natural resources and pollution control. This can be achieved though
training programs, visits, learning domestic and overseas experiences, and actual
deployment of environmental monitoring activities for subprojects and PFIs.

       (ii) Guidelines on environmental managementfor the PFIs

364. BIDV should issue a revised Environmental Guideline complying with the
New Environmental Protection Law (2005) and the Governmental Decrees,
Circulars of MONRE guiding the implementation of the new EP law and in
accordance with the WB's Safeguard Policies.

365. Short-term training courses for credit officers in charged of environmental
management at all PFIs should be organized. The training content should include
guidelines on implementation of EP regulations, classification of subprojects by
environmental     criteria,  environmental       impact     assessment,      monitoring   of
environmental protection        at subproject level and specific measures for
environmental protection in various sectors.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           120

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                    July 2007

366. Environmental specialists from universities, institutes and environmental
centers can be invited to conduct training programs under the supervision of the
BIDV. The duration of such programs can be 3 to 4 days per course and 2 courses
per year (one for PFIs in the North and one for PFIs in the South).

       (iii) Improving environmental protection              information to PFIs and
subprojects owners

367. The project should contact the WE3 and state bodies in charge of
environmental management, entities of environmental science and technology to
obtain environmental information (laws, policies, measures for pollution control and
biodiversity conservation, etc.). The project should also prepare and disseminate
that information to PFIs and subproject owners in any forms easy to understand and
remember, for instance, guide books, pictures, posters, leaflets, video clips, etc. so
as environmental policies of the government, WE3 and BIDV can reach subproject
owners.

       (iv) Enhancement of supervision (monitoring) of PFIs and subprojects'
compliance with the "EnvironmentalGuidelines"

368. In cooperation with Departments of Natural Resources and Environment of
provinces and cities, every 6 months TCIII should periodically check up (monitor)
PFIs' implementation of requirements set forth in the "Environmental Guidelines"
(pursuant to Official Letter 2749MD-SGD3 dated 25 May 2006 by BIDV or the
new guidelines to be issued by BIDV in the future). The checkup should be carried
out not only at headquarters but also at branches of PFIs and some typical
subprojects (preferably high risky subprojects in the sectors of industry - small
industry and husbandry and aquaculture).

        (v) Recommendations to BIDV to apply appropriate measures against the
PFIs thosefail to comply with the "Environmental Guidelines"

369. In case of any PFI of failure or impaired compliance with the "Environmental
Guidelines" issued by the BIDV, the EMD of TCIII should propose with the BIDV
measures/solutions to deal with these institutions. Those measures/solutions may be
warning, criticism in written (if the infringement is light) or even early termination
of the loaning agreement or other effective measures allowed by the Vietnam laws.

       (vi)Storage of environmental information related to theproject

370. Information related to classification of subprojects, environmental impacts,
and environmental management, etc. related to PFIs and subprojects nationwide
should be stored by the Environmental Management Division (electronic and
printed copies) and provided for TCIII to be used in environmental management of
the project.

       (vii) Increased human and financial               resources for       environmental
management within TCIII

371. In order to effectively implement the aforementioned measures, the BIDV
should secure human and financial resources for the Environmental Management
Division (and the Appraisal Division) of TCIII. Its budget may be taken from the
management account of the SRFP of the WE3 and other sources of the BIDV.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           121

SRFP- Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007




5.2. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT MEASURES TO BE APPLIED BY PFIs IN
    THE FUTURE

5.2.1. Measures for Improving PFIs' Environmental Management Capacity

    Strengthening environmental management capacity for PFI's Credit
    Officers

372. Environmental management is a new field for credit officers in the Vietnam
banking system. Credit officers are direct advisors of the borrowers and therefore
their good understanding of environmental matters is essential for subprojects to be
duly advised.

373. The investigation rendered by the Environmental Consultant for the Project
indicates that capacity of a number of credit officers in the field of environmental
management is still limited, particularly those working in branches of second and
third levels. The main reason for this is they have not been professionally trained on
environmental management as well as limited awareness of environment protection.

374. Therefore, credit officers of PFIs should participate training courses such as:
    -  Environmental management: providing basic knowledge of environment
       related to various sectors such as agriculture, aquaculture, industry and
       commerce, etc.;
    -  Environmental monitoring: providing methods for on site observation and
       how to fill environmental monitoring sheets;
    -  How to use manuals of impact assessment applicable to main forms of
       production;
    -  Economic tools in environmental protection: this is to understand taxes and
       environmental fee and then provide advice to their borrowers.

375. Those training courses may be held by the Environmental Management
Division of BIDV TC3 or by independent environmental experts in cooperation
with the EMD.

    Cooperation with departments at provincial level and other institutions to
    improve capacity of bank officers

376. To implement environmental management training programs for PFIs' credit
officers it is necessary to have cooperation between BIDV and relevant
departmentslsector administrations at local level such as the Department of
Resources and Environment, institutes, universities, environmental centers and
independent experts.

5.2.2. Measures for dissemination of Vietnam Laws and Regulations,
Guidelines of the WB and BIDV on Environmental Protection to Subproject
Owners

377. Generally, the legal documents on environmental protection and Vietnamese
environmental standards to date have been constituted. This has created a regulatory
framework for all projects related to socio-economic development, security and
defense, inclusive of projects assisted by international financial organizations.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         122

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007


Under the SRFP, in addition to Vietnam laws, safeguard policies of the WB are also
obliged. Therefore, dissemination and guidance on the implementation of Vietnam
laws and WB's guidelines on environmental protection is essential for the project in
the near future. In order for subproject owners to have a thorough understanding of
those regulations, the TCIII of BIDV should take the following measures.

    Preparation of information documents

       Guidebooks

378. Guidebooks (manuals) on environmental protection shall present solutions for
environmental protection, particularly for the sectors of potential environmental
impacts such as aquaculture, animal husbandry, development of villages of
traditional productions, etc. Those guide books should be in brief, about 10 to 15
pages and easy to understand. The possible main contents can be:

   -   Brief description of productions/businesses
   -   Determination of waste matters possibly produced by every kind of
       productions/businesses
   -   Predicted impacts on the environment and health
   -   Measures for prevention of negative impacts, including waste management,
       biodiversity preservation, safety and environmental sanitation.

       Leaflets and posters

379. It is recommended to use leaflets and posters with pictures illustrating the
impacts of productions/businesses on the environment and people's health. They
should be easy enough for everybody to understand.

    Guidelines provided by credit officers to subproject owners

380. While examining conditions for the loan, credit officers should provide
subproject owners with guidance on environmental impacts and appropriate
measures for environmental protection. It is also advised to hand the relevant
environmental protection manuals over to subproject owners.

    Preparation and certification of "the Commitment on Environmental
    Protection"

381. After guiding subproject owners about environmental matters, credit officers
should ask subproject owners to prepare a "Commitment on Environmental
Protection" complying with the form provided for by the Ministry of Natural
Resources and Environment. According to Circular 0812006lTT-BTNMT by the
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, a local state body in charge of
environmental protection shall certify those commitment papers.

382. The preparation       and certification of the "Environmental Protection
Commitment Paper" is not only applied to this Project but also to all small
production and business firms over the country, according to the Law on
Environmental Protection effective from July                1, 2006. In addition, the
Environmental Protection Commitment Paper should be considered as a condition
to borrow the SRFP funds in the future phases.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         123

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007


    Organization of training programs for subproject owners

383. In case that in a region there are many subprojects with the same kind of
production and business, the PFI can coordinate with local environmental
administrations or hire environmental consultants to organize training courses on
measures of environmental protection. Training courses should be short, easy to
understand and practical enough for subproject owners to apply.

    Encouraging subprojects to implement the environmental protection

384. PFIs should give incentives to the subprojects, which well perform the task of
environmental protection; those might include additional credits, deferred payment
or any incentive in programs of promotion or propaganda. That may encourage
people to be more aware of environmental protection because it is not only for the
society by also their families.

5.2.3. Measures for Environmental Monitoring

385. The measures for environmental monitoring (supervision) that Environmental
Management Units of PFIs and credit officers should take include:
-   Coming to the site, observing and filling in questionnaires sheets
-   Asking any cadre in charge of that locality (for instance, leaders of hamlet,
    ward, etc.) to know whether a subprojects is causative of people's claim.

386. Credit officers can checkup subprojects without prior notice or periodically
together with banking checks. In case of any environmental matters, the checkup
team can require the subproject owner to implement the measures of environmental
protection as helshe has undersigned the Environmental Protection Commitment.
For subprojects causing major environmental impacts, PFIs should cooperate with
local environmental administrations (Department of Natural Resources and
Environment-DONRE, Environmental Management Divisions of districts) in
monitoring and proposal of appropriate measures for dealing therewith.


5.3. MEASURES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND POLLUTION
    CONTROL FOR SUBPROJECTS CLASSIFIED BY SECTORS

387. As commented in Chapter 3, the subprojects of sectors such as industries -
small industries, husbandry and aquaculture contain high potential impacts on the
environment. Therefore, the Consultant hereby recommends measures for
management and control of pollution, protection of ecological resources that are
applicable to those sectors and warns BIDV and PFIs to guide subprojects for
application.

5.3.1. General Measures for Integration of Environmental Protection into
Production-Business Activities

    Compliance with the Law on Environmental Protection

388. The Law on Environmental Protection passed by the National Assembly of the
Socialist Republic of Vietnam on 29 November 2005 is applicable to "state bodies,
organizations, households and foreign individuals having activities in the territory
of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam''. Therefore, during the implementation of the


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         124

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                    July 2007


SRFP (as well as other activities), BIDV, PFIs and subproject owners should
comply with regulations of the law as well as related decrees (by the Government)
and circulars (by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment) with
guidelines on implementation thereof.

389. As for subprojects, the most relevant contents of the chapters and clauses of
the Environmental Protection Law include:

    (i)   "Environmentalprotection in production, business and service" (Chapter
           y)with clauses 35, 36, 37, 38, 40,41,46,47 and 49.

    (ii)   "Environmental protection in urban and populated areas" (Chapter VI)
          with clauses 51, 52, 53 and 54.

    (iii) "Waste matter management" (Chapter V I I . with clauses 66, 67, 68, 71,
          72,77, 78, 79, 81, 82, 83, 85.

    (iv) "Prevention of and response to environmental risks, pollution treatment
          and environmental restoration" (Chapter I 4 with clauses 88,90,93.

    (v) "Strategic environmental assessment              (SEA), environmental impact
          assessment (EIA) and commitment of environmental protection (CEP)"
          (Chapter III) with clauses 24,25,26, 27.

390. No subprojects under the SRFP are in the category subject to prepare strategic
environmental     assessment     and    environmental impact           assessment reports.
Nevertheless, pursuant to Clause 24, the Law of Environmental Protection, "any
entity ofproduction, business or service withfamily-scale and those are not subject
to Clauses 14 (SEA) and 18 (EIA) of this Law should have a " Commitment on
Environmental Protection':

391. The contents, procedures for establishment and certification of the
"Commitment on Environmental Protection" are stipulated in details in Paragraph
IV, Circular 0812006lTT-BTNMT dated 08 September 2006 by the Ministry of
Resources and Environment. The structure and requirements of the contents of the
"Commitment of Environmental Protection" are given in Annex 23 to the Circular.

    Compliance with Vietnamese Environmental Standards

392. All subprojects including small scales of production-business have to comply
with the Vietnamese Environmental Standards (TCVN). The (former) Ministry of
Science, Technology and Environment, the Ministry of Science and Technology
and Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment have issued hundreds of such
standards, of which the following ones are directly related to the subprojects in the
SRFP and should be used for subprojects to design and operate pollution control
systems and for state environmental agencies and the BIDV in environmental
monitoring of subprojects:

  -    TCVN 5939:2005: Industrial Emission Standard for dust and inorganic
       substances.
  -    TCVN 5949:1998: Noise Standard for public and populated areas
  -    TCVN 5945:2005: Standard for industrial effluent

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           125

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007


The other standards may be applied in specific cases.

    Application of cleaner production and waste audit

393. The common characteristics of the subprojects of the sector of small industry
include small or medium scale, financial and technological limits, inappropriateuse
of energy (electricity, coal, oil), water and materials and consequently low
efficiency and high cost of production, and at the same time large volumes of
effluent and solid waste, causing environmental pollution and damages to workers'
health.

394. In order to improve the efficiency of production and environmental protection
and at the same time to lower production cost and waste matters, methods of
"cleaner production" with "waste audit" as a part of significance to apply to various
kinds of small industries and handicrafts. It is experienced in the World and in
Vietnam that waste audit and cleaner production do not require subproject owners
to invest much in advanced equipment, machines and technology (since they make
full use of existing facilities and technologies) but return in larger profits. The
BIDV and subprojects can contact with the following scientific and technological
units for obtaining the guidelines including contents and methods of waste audit for
cleaner production (and any other matters related to environmental science and
technology):

       In the North (Northwardsfrom Thuathien - Hue):
   -   Institute for Environmental Science and Technology- Hanoi University of
       Technology
   -   Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI) of the Vietnam
       Association for Conservation of Natural Resources and Environment
   -   Center for Environmental Engineering for Urban Areas and Industrial Parks
       - Hanoi Construction University

       In the South (Southwardsfrom Danana):
   -   Environment Faculty- Hochiminh City University of Technology
   -   Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (Environmental
       Protection Centre)
   -   Institute for Environment and Natural Resources- Hochiminh City National
       University
   -   Environmental Technology Faculty- Cantho University

5.3.2. Environmental Protection with Respect to Aquaculture Subprojects

    Sustainable aquaculture
       - Selection  of locationfor aqua-culturalfarms

395. It is necessary to select location of farms out of ecologically sensitive zones
(mangrove forests, natural reserves, national parks etc.). It is prohibited to destroy a
mangrove forest for aqua farming. It is absolutely not to develop aquaculture of any


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         126

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Repot? (Final)                                  July 2007


kind (in ponds, lagoons or floating cages) in core zones of natural reserves and
biosphere reserves (for example in Cangio World Biosphere Reserve, Halong Bay,
Nhatrang Bay, Condao National Park, Phuquoc National Park, Catba National Park,
etc. excepted for the locations planned and permitted by the Government for
aquaculture. PFIs are not encouraged to loan to subprojects located in these areas.
       - Control of efflent and spoil
       Effluent

396. While harvesting, water from ponds or lagoons should be pumped to common
sewages, not to any canal, river that is used as water supply for other breeding
households.
   -   It is advised to use processed feed and to limit use of self-produced one such
       as small fish or seafood processing by-products (particularly in the Mekong
       Delta), which are easy to pollute water when decomposed.
   -   The amount of feed should be adjusted so as for shrimp and fish to consume
       at most.
   -   For any area that has been planned for aquaculture development, common
       drainages and effluent treatment systems should be built to serve the whole
       area.

       Spoil (waste mud)

397. Mud dredged (spoil) from ponds have high contents of organic matters,
nutrients, bacteria and possible chemicals used for prevention of diseases. It can be
used for plantation or landfill. Spoil should not be disposed to any river or canal as
that increases the concentrations of suspended solid, organic matters or causes
eutrophication therein). Box 5.1 presents the comment on a model of effluent and
spoils treatment at a fish culture entity in the Mekong Delta.

          Box 5.1: Comment on a model of effluent and spoil treatment

               Aquaculture effluent should be flown through a biological
      settling system prior to discharge thereof to the environment. The
      system may be a ricefield, a canal or a lake in which water hyacinth,
       bindweed, celery and the like are planted. For instance, an entity with
       a breeding area of 1000 m2and the depth of 2m, on average, water
      should be replaced twice in a week, with 30% of water replaced each
       time (approximately 600 to 700 m3). It is necessary to balance the
       volume of wastewater to be discharged to the canal or field,
      particularly ricefield. Special attention should be given to the growth
       of rice and its demand for nutrients in calculation of the appropriate
       volume of wastewater to bepoured into the ricefield.

               After a breeding crop of 5 months, the bottom mud is as thick as
       50 cm, and for a pond of 1000 m2, the amount of bottom mud is
       approximately 500 m3. Therefore, if the protective edge of the pond is
       2000 m2;its height will be increased by 25 cm when the whole volume
       of bottom mud is pumped to the edge. That renders the ground high
       and fallow if there is no rice field in the surroundings of the pond.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and SustainabIe DeveIopment Institute (VESDI)         127

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007


      Therefore, in order to reach stable aquaculture, fish-breeding entities
      should have afield or garden large enough. At the same time, it needs
      to determine a proper ratio of bottom mud to be brought onto thefield
      or garden with the surface area of thepond edge taken into account.

      Source: Report on EIA of subprojects within the Mekong Delta Region,
       VESDI,April 2007


       -Prevention    offish and shrimpfrom epidemic diseases

398. Epidemic diseases kill aquatic products, causing not only economic lost but
also severe impacts on the environment. Therefore, special attention should be paid
to prevention of aquatic products from epidemic diseases. The measures for
prevention of epidemic diseases are recommended as follows.
   -   Proper transportation of juvenile fish and shrimp
   -   Full use of experiences to soon detect any epidemic disease and application
       of treatment measures in due time.
   -   Improvement of understanding of diseases
   -   Supply of clean and pathogen-free water
   -   Selection of juvenile aquatic products of high quality

   -   Supply of pathogen-free feed
   -   Diversification of breeding methods and species in order to make full use of
       feed.
   -   Maintenance of optimum water quality at any time
   -   No discharge of disease-contaminated water to any canal that other ponds
       also use or to any other pond.
   -   After harvests, drying the pond and use of lime to kill pathogen and prevent
       from its accumulation
   -   Use of antibiotic (in a list permissible by the Ministry of Fishery) only for
       heavy bacterial contamination and when the disease is detected as soon as it
       can be treated.
       - Wasteoilfrom aerating machines

399. Although the amount of waste oil from aerating machines is limited, breeding
farms should collect it and avoid leaking to surrounding water sources. Waste oil
should be gathered to sell to recycling facilities.

    Fishing

400. Mitigation of degradation of aquatic resources is mostly dependent on fishers'
awareness. Therefore, it is necessary to improve subproject owners' awareness
thereof for protecting those resources.
   -   It is critical to implement regulations stipulated by the government and local
       authorities on protection of aquatic resources.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)          128

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007

    -     Not fishing in prohibited areas.
    -     Refraining from fishing in reproduction seasons of sea fish.

    -     Strictly complying with regulations on minimum scale of fishing net mesh
    -     Not using destructive means such as explosives, toxins or electricity in
          fishing.

401. Besides, leakage of fuel and oily waste during sea-going trips should be
controlled. Particularly, oil waste should be transported to mainland for treatment,
not to be discharged to the sea.

5.3.3. Environmental Protection With Respect to Animal Husbandry
Subprojects

402. Solid waste (manures of cattle and poultry), effluent (wastewater from
washing of breeding facilities) and offensive smell from breeding facilities are the
biggest sources of pollution.

   Management of solid waste and effluent

403. A major part of solid waste and effluent from breeding can be used as:

   - Feed for fish
   -      Raw materials for production of fuel gas by means of biogas pits

   -      Fertilizers

404. With a view of reduction of pollution and economic use of these wastes, the
model of VAC (abbreviation to Garden - Pond - Pigsty in Vietnamese), or more
advantageously, VACB (Garden - Pond - Pigsty - Biogas) should be widely
applied. The investigation of breeding subprojects found that any subproject owners
who have well applied this model (particularly in the Red River Delta and the
Northeast Mekong Regions) can basically solve the problems related to waste
matters and gain higher profits (typical examples are shown in Chapter Three).

405. The model of Biogas for treatment of waste matter should apply to any case of
breeding more than 20 pigs yet the breeder has neither land for making any pond or
lagoon for breeding fish nor garden. Such a biogas pit should be made of cement
with a volume of 4 m3.

406. The model of Biogas pit is not suitable for small breeding households with at
most 10 pigs or 1000 chicken. In such cases, it is possible to take measures for
treatment and full use of waste matters as follows:
   -      Using manures as feed for fish
   -      Composting manures and using them as compost (for the households having
          no fish pond)
   -      Collecting and composting big amounts of manures then selling the compost
          to entities producing bio-fertilizers.

407. Subprojects are advised to refer to the model of family-scale biogas pit
(breeding about 30 pigs) given in Box 5.2.
         ~
                        Box 5.2: A model of family-scale biogas pit                 1
Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         129

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                      July 2007


               Treatment of breeding waste matters with biogas pits so as to
      make full use of biogas is a method that returns in both economic
      benefit and environmentalprotection
           -   Using biogasfrom biogas pits for living activities in thefamily
    I      -   Efluentfrom biogaspits are usedfor watering orfertilizing                I
               Biogas is a mixture of gases that areproduced in the anaerobic
      decomposition of organic substances. Its main components include
      methane (CH4)and carbon dioxide (Cod. Accountingfor 50 to 70%of
      biogas, methane is aflammable gas that can be used as a gaseousfuel.

               A simple chart of the equipment collecting biogas from
       breeding waste matters is given below.


                                                Gas via pipe and

                               -                     filter
                                                                        Biogas-
       Breeding              Decomposit
                                                                        fueled cook
       zone                  ion pit




                                            Effluent used for
                                            watering


               The structure of biogas equipmentfor family use is simple with
       continuous operation of 5 main components:

        I.     Input pipe: driving raw materials into the decomposition pit. It
               is a straight pipe that can be made of steel, concrete or hard
               plastic with the minimum diameter ofl50mm. It includes an end
               mounted to a receiving tank and another end mounted to the
               wall of the decomposition in a declination of 30'.

        2.     Decomposition tank: is the most important component of biogas
               equipment. That is the space to store decomposed liquid and
               alsofor thefermentation to occur to produce biogas. The input
               pipe and the outlet pipe are mounted symmetrically on two
               walls of the decomposition tank. The upper of the tank is a
               cylindrical neck with a height of 30-40cm and diameter of 800-
               850mm with a cap. The neck is theplace tofeed initial material
               and also called checking neck. The cap of the tank is cork-
               shaped and 120 to l5Omm thick. For biogas equipment, the
               fixed cap is the space to store biogas and therefore its
               construction should be good enough. There are many types of
               decomposition tanks such as steel tank with float cap, tanks
               with arched cap,pits made ofplastic bags, etc.

     )  3.     Outletpipe: this has the same similar structure and material as           I
               the input pipe but its inner dimension is smaller because
               decomposed materials are liquid. It is connected to the
               decomposition tank in a declination of 40'.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              130

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007


        4.     Pressure balance tank: This is a semi-sphere for regulating the
              pressure inside the decomposition tank

        5.     Gas-collecting pipe: This is made of steel or hard plastic with
               an end connected to the gas-conducting pipe and another end
               mounted through the cap for collecting and transporting gas
               out of the decomposing tank.

      Subproject owners may find detailed design of Biogas systems in
      various technical manuals, therefore, it is not necessary to describe in
      this EIA report.

      Source: Report at a seminar on "Introduction of Biogas Technology for
      Rural and Mountainous Development and Urban Areas ",Hanoi, 2002

   Measures to minimize pollution due to offensive smell from animal
   husbandry facilities

408. The most essential measure to limit smell pollution is regular cleaning of
breeding facilities and feeding troughs, depending on breeding conditions and scales
(once per day for small-scale breeding, at least twice per day for medium to large-
scale breeding).

409. In addition to cleaning the breeding facilities everyday, the following
measures might be used as reference.
-Design  of breedingfacilities
   -   Breeding facilities should be well ventilated with apparatus for collecting
       waste matters
   -   The breeding area should be 20m2for 10pigs
   -   Clean water should be supplied to every breeding compartment.
   -   Breeding facilities should be covered with canvas to avoid cold weather, flies
       and mosquito and limit odor dispersion.

-Location of breeding area
   -   For breeding less than 50 pigs, the breeding area should be at least 50 m
       from the nearest household's house.
   -   For breeding more than 50 pigs, the breeding area should be at least 100 m
       from the nearest household's house.
   -   Additional land should be allocated for waste treatment facilities.

       Breeding facilities should be at least 20 m fi-om any wells.

   Mitigation of impacts on underground water

410. The volume of underground water exploited and used for cleaning the
breeding facilities is not so high but subproject owners should take measures to
protect this resource.
   -   Economically using water: not to exploit underground water more than the
       daily demand.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and SustainabIe Development Institute (VESDI)         131

SRF'P -Environmental Assessment Repori (Final)                                 July 2007


   -   Controlling effluent and solid waste: prevent those waste matters from
       infiltrating into the underground water layer by using cement for lining the
       base of breeding facilities
   -   Using pond water for cleaning breeding facilities nearby

   Epidemic prevention

411. To prevent animal breeding sites from epidemic diseases the following
measures should be applied.
   -   Using strong and healthy young breeding animals
   -   Strictly implementing epidemic prevention regulations by local veterinary
       authorities
   -   In case of an epidemic, quickly isolating remaining animals, completely
       destroying ill animals, strictly prohibiting any act that can spread the
       epidemic to other breeding farms.

5.3.4. EnvironmentalProtection with Respect to AgriculturalSubprojects

412. Rice-cultivating subprojects should take measures of integrated pest management
(PM) in cultivation, to limit the use of vegetable protection chemicals, even the
allowableones, and not use prohibited ones.

413. The measures for mitigation of impacts of vegetable protection chemicals are
recommended as follows:
   -   Calculating and using appropriate volume of pesticides (as guided by the
       Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development) and properly spraying
       pesticides so as not to diffuse them to the surrounding environment. That
       helps reduce not only the expenses on chemicals but also risk of
       environmental pollution.
    -  Using working protection apparatus during pesticide spray,
    -  Used containers of pesticides should be collected, separated and treated
       (soaked in lime or soap solution, etc.), not disposed together with sanitary
       waste.

5.3.5. Environmental Protection with Respect to Subprojects in Small-Scale
Industries

    Paper production and recycling subprojects

414. Paper production and recycling is the most polluting sector compared to others
under the SRFP.
       -Application    of cleanerproduction

415. Production emissions and effluent of a major part of subprojects in this sector
are causative of heavy pollution. The following cleaner production measures
(introduced by the Institute for Environmental Science and Technology           -   Hanoi
University of Technology) can be applied to reduce emissions and effluent from
paper production and recycling.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         132

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007

   -   Using iron bars to take out staples from waste paper. This could reduce by
       10-15%of solid waste in waste papers.
   -   Continuously stirring soaking pits in order to increase the contact between
       chemicals and materials and thereby reduce the residue of chemicals in
       effluent, decreasing soaking duration and improving product quality
   -   Changing the order of treatment by making colophony distribute evenly in
       fiber suspension before adding aluminum alum so as to improve the
       flocculation of fiber, thereby reducing fuel consumption and materials cost
       and increasing product quality
   -   Installing lattices in mixing tanks to screen out unclassified nylon bags
       (meaning that production engineering should be innovated) for higher
       efficiency of paper making and lower rate of defective paper
   -   Using coal with lower sulfur content and higher thermal value (replacing
       coal of grade 4 by coal of grade 2) so as to cut down emissions by 20-28%,
       and at the same time increase temperature of kilns and reduce cinder
   -   Breaking off big coal lump (with inconsiderable labor expense) to boost the
       combustion by 5-10% and cut down cinder by 5-7%.
   -   Frequently maintaining machines in good conditions (grinders, cylinder
       machines), for instance, installing rubber flanges, oiling (low investment) in
       order to reduce noise and vibration and increase productivity and life-span of
       machines thereof.
   -   Maintaining and innovating steam systems (with initial investment in valves
       and pipes) to cut down coal consumption and consequently reduce pollution
       loads.
   -   Improving the efficiency of fans for boilers (affordable expenses on electric
       fans and electricity bills, etc.) so as to reduce solid waste.
   -   Circulating condensate water (investment in heat exchange apparatus) to
       save coal and electricity.
   -   Refluxing effluent and pulp (building a system for treatment of effluent and
       collection of pulp with relatively high costs) so as to reduce effluent, and
       make full use of pulp in effluent, and save electrical energy to be used by
       pumps.

       Replacing vertical boilers with horizontal ones for higher efficiency of coal
       burning
   -   Replacing disk grinders with vertical hydraulic ones to quadruple grinding
       capacity, thereby cutting down grinding duration and waste matters
   -   Installing pressure gauges in cylinder machines to control temperature,
       thereby reducing the amount of tom paper and improving product quality.
       -Installation  and operation of wastewater treatment systems

416. Production or recycling facilities with large (over 100 m3/d) or medium
discharges (20-100 m3/d) of wastewater should build and operate well effluent


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         133

    SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                    July 2007


     treatment systems. Small facilities in the same locality should have a co-operation
     in construction and operation of a common effluent treatment system.

     417. Figure 5.1 illustrates the flow chart of an effluent treatment model applicable
    to medium-scale paper recycling entities with wastewater discharge of 20-30 m3id
     in Duong-0 village and Phongkhe Industrial Park-Bacninh province. This model is
     referable and applicable to subprojects and other units of the same production.
                                                 c
                                                            Pulp collector




Sand Settler          Regulation             Floating              Settle Tank       Treated
                                                                                     effluent


        Figure 5.1: Diagram of effluent treatment for small-scale paper recycling
                                              facilities

     418. The effluent from paper production and recycling contains fine fiber and pulp
     is led through a sand settling system (the most effective and simple one are
     horizontal settlers), which is regularly dredged to collect fibers at its bottom.
     Effluent is then flown to a regulator where compartment walls are mounted to
     increase the disturbance of input waste matters, which should go to the floating
     selector without accumulation in the regulator. Fibers and pulp are adhered to
     bubbles and go up to the surface of the selector where a plurality of sweeper sweep
     them to a collecting spout that is connected with the pulp collector. The fibers and
     pulp so taken are periodically returned to mix with raw materials in alkaline tanks.
     The effluent from the floating selector is flown to a bio-lake before discharging to
     the environment.

     419. The local People Committee is required to ask all paper recycling households
     in the village to cooperate in construction of a centralized wastewater treatment
     system. Without a proper cooperation between the households this system may not
     be built due to the cost not low (over 500 mil V N D / ~ O of            O ~wastewateriday
                                                                                  ~
     excepted for operation cost) and the required area is wide (over 200m2).
            -  Improvement of working environment, protection of health and
     prevention of accidents

     420. At present, the working environment at most of paper recycling enterprises
     does not meet requirements of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, the subproject
     owners are required to conduct the following measures.
         -  Enlargement of production area (if possible) or reduction of production
            capacity (if enlargement of production are is impossible)
         -  Installation of windy ventilation and lighting systems to meet requirements
            of the Ministry of Health.
         -  Training and providing workers with guidance on safety, technique and
            operation of machines and equipments.

     Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           134

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007

   -   Keeping hygienic conditions in workplaces, avoiding of electrical equipment
       from dampening.
   -   Properly installing insulators to avoid electric incidents.
   -   Providing laborers with regulatory labor protection means (gloves,
       comforters, clothes, boots, etc.)

   Woodwork production subprojects

421. The investigation indicates that number of woodwork production subprojects
account for a high proportion of the total number of subprojects in small industry and
handicraft sector. In general, the main impacts of wood production and processing are
dust and noise. The measures recommended for mitigatingthose impacts are as follows.

       -Dust reduction
   -   Using advancedmachines such as sawingmachineswith dust collectors.
   -   Arranging sawing machines in a specific area with cover wall; installing dust-
       collecting cyclones(if possible) to limit the diffusionof dust.
       -Noise control
       In order to limit the impacts of noise fi-om sawing and splitting machines, the
main measures need to be taken include:
   -   Locating noisy machines at least 50m &omany populated area.
   -   Not performing noisy steps in rest time (noon to 2:00 PM and 8:00 PM to 6:00
       AM).
   - Providingworkers with ear-plugs.
       - WorkingSafety
   -   Square of production facilities should be large enough, equipped with ventilation,
       lighting system along with safe electricity supply complying with regulations
       stipulatedby the Ministry of Health.
   -   Provide workers with guidance on safety while operating sawingmachines,plane
       machines...
   -   Providingworkers with ear-plugs, mufflers, safetyworkingclothes.


    Pollution control at brick production facilities

422. With respect to subprojects of brick production, the environmental problems
are solid waste and emissions, particularly emissions. Emissions from firing of
bricks contain high concentrations of COX,SO,, NO, and HF. etc. This pollution is
easy to control if manual kilns are replaced with tunnels but that is too costly for
many subproject owners to afford. Therefore, the feasible measures of pollution
control include:
   -   Covering the area for unloading materials and products with bamboo wattles
       or screens and spraying water therein to limit dust difhsion in the air.



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development lnstitute (VESDI)         135

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Repori (Final)                                  July 2007


  -    Simply managing solid waste (including broken products and cinder) by
       collecting and reusing as landfill.
  -    Calculating the ratio of coalhricks: this is based on experiences of firers to
       limit defective products, reduce solid waste and other waste matters
  -    Using good raw materials and fuel (coal of low sulfur content and high
       thermal value, unfired products of good quality, etc.)
  -    Insulating the kilns to reduce thermal pollution and save energy
  -    Building chimneys with appropriate heights

  -    Changing kiln technology: Subprojects should change to vertical continuous
       kilns, with which the production is not changed much but the firing
       efficiency is high, fuel is save, defective products and polluting emission are
       decreased. One of such models is detailed in Box 5.3.

                  Box 5.3: Description of a vertical continuous kiln

                An embodiment of vertical continuous technology is consisted
       of two wall layers, an inner kiln wall and an outer covering wall. The
       inner wall is built with two layers of bricks, namely fireproof bricks
       and ordinary bricks, the space interstice of which is filled up with
       fireproof powder or fiber. The space of approximately I                meter
       between the inner and outer layers is filled up with cheap fireproof
       materials (cinder and earth mixed with rice husk). The firing
       compartment is located at the elevation of 1.5 m, its cross-section is
       approximately l m x 1.5 to 2 m and its height is 4.5 to 5.5 m,
       depending on requirements on designing.

                In the firing compartment, bricks are laid in many batches,
       each of which include 4 layers distanced each other by a layer of
       bricks so as to form many slots for supporting iron beams to go
       through. For unloading bricks, the unloading means (lifting screws)
       will lift up stacks of bricks so as to remove the supporting beams.
        Then the stacks are lowered gradually until new slots appear on the
       I-shape beams, where supporting beams are inserted to support the
       next stacks of bricks.

                Before laying new batches, the shields of two chimneys are
       opened and smoke is suctioned out and after laying new bricks, the
       shields are closedfor flue gas to warm up the bricks newly laid in the
       kiln.

                During operation, the combustion in thefiring compartment is
       adjusted such that the firing center firing space) is located in the
       center of the kiln and the temperature thereof is 900" C. Firers can
       observe through an observing hole to adjust the firing zone. Above
       thefiring zone is a heating one then a drying zone. Smoke from the
       firing zone will pass the heating zone and the drying zone before
       discharge. The temperature of smoke at the outlet is low,
       approximately 70" C to 130"C, it does not affect the environment.


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         136

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007


                Below thejring zone is a cooling zone. Bricks afterjring are
        moved downwards to the bottom and gradually cooled. Fresh air is
       fed from the bottom and onpassing and cooling down the newlyjred
        bricks and at the same time, air is heated before it isfed to thejring
        zone.

        Source: Report on EIA of subprojects in the Northeast Mekong
        Region, VESDI, April 2007

423. In case that subproject owners do not have conditions for change in production
technology the better measure for minimize the impact of flue gas to public health is
movement of brick kilns into a site far from residential are (with a minimum
distance of 200m to the boundary of residential site).

    Subprojects of plastic production, recycling and processing

424. The most considerations at enterprises of plastic and resin, recycling and
processing are the smell of plastics and resin from melting and hot-pressing, and
wastewaters. The measures recommended for limiting odor and wastewater those
entities are as follows.
   -   Ventilation for workshops with shutters, dust and smell collectors for
       decreasing ambient temperature, increasing lighting and fresh air for
       production zones.

   -   Opening sideward doors

   - Providing workers with adequate labor protection means (clothes,
       comforters, etc.)
   -   Innovating plastic grinders to improve the processing effectiveness
   -   Controlling the manufacturing technology by adjusting optimal temperature
   -   Innovating extruders for higher productivity.

   -   Re-circulating cooling water.

5.3.6. Environmental Protection with Respect to Food Processing Subprojects

425. The most considerations of food processing subprojects (particularly
processing of seafood, meat and the like) are offensive smell, effluent, and solid
waste from storage and processing. The managerial measures recommended
hereunder may be applied at those entities for pollution control.
   -   Building processing facilities far from any populated area, tourist site or
       commercial zone (at least 500 m as for processing of fish source, meat and
       fish).
   -   Installing fans and deodorizing apparatuses in production areas.
   -   Collecting solid waste on a daily basis (those include head, gut of fish and
       shrimp, skin and hair of cattle, feather of poultry), classifying them for
       recycling (as fertilizers) or burning.

   -   Keeping processing zones clean.
   -   Installing covered ditches for draining wastewater.

Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         137

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                  July 2007

   -   For medium and large-sized entities (210T fish or meatld): installing and
       operating wastewater treatment systems (the technology for treatment of
       seafood wastewater has been accomplished by many units of environmental
       technology and ready for transfer): subproject owners may contact with
       various environmental companies or Universities of Technology in Hanoi
       and Hochiminh City to receive detailed consults.
   -   Providing workers with labor protection means such as clothes, comforters,
       gloves and boots.

5.3.7. Environmental Protection with Respect to Trading Subprojects

426. Those subprojects are involving mainly in trade of construction materials,
agricultural materials and restaurants, etc.

       Fuel-trading shops should:
   -   Assure that their gas stations are at least 100m (or any distance allowable by
       local Police) far from any populated area.
   -   Equip fire prevention tools with adequate number and assured quality that
       are approved by a competent authority (Department of Public Security).
   -   Provide fuel-sellers with guidance on fire prevention and how to response to
       any incident in due time.
   -   Regularly checkup up the fire system and assuring of no leakage from
       storing tanks.

       Food and drinking servicefacilities should:
    -  Strictly implement food safety: using unexpired foodstuffs and water not
       contaminated with pathogenous bacteria, virus or toxic chemicals.
    -  Assure that any person who is processing foodstuffs wears hat, mask, thin
       gloves and suitable clothes so as not to contaminate food.
    -  Collecting all waste matters (food ends and odds, used napkins, cloths, etc.)
       and entering a contract with a public service entity on transport thereof to a
       treatment site.
    -  Collecting and treating effluent with septic tanks or discharging via a sewage
       connected to the common drainage of the region.

       Pesticides Trading Facilities:
    -  Locating stores of vegetable protection chemicals far from any populated
       areas and sources of water supply.
    -  Classifying and separately storing different kinds of vegetable protection
       chemicals.
    -  Instructing sellers about toxicity, methods of storage and use of every kind of
       crop protection chemicals and instructing buyers about these requirements.
    -  Providing fire equipment and instruments (if any inflammable chemical is
       stored) and first-aid box for use in emergency, particularly in case of acute



Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         138

  SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                       July 2007


          intoxication due to chemicals prior to delivery of the casualty to a medical
          station.

  5.3.8. Environmental Protection with Respect to Subprojects in the Transport
  and Construction Sector

  427. Activities of transport and construction should abide by regulations of the
  Vietnam Vehicle Registration Department on emissions, noise as well as by traffic
  rules (on roads and waterways). There is no significant environmental impact for
  the visited subprojects under the SRFP in this sector. Therefore, specific measures
  for environmental management are not necessary.

  5.3.9. Summary on Environmental Protection Measures Recommended for
  Various Kinds of Production and Business Activities

  428. A summary on environmental protection measures including pollution control
  and protection of biodiversity, health and culture of subprojects by economic
  sectors is given in Table 5.1. Depending on characteristics, scale, capacity and
  location, etc. of the subprojects, it may need to combine 1,2,3 or more measures.

            Table 5.1: Summary of measures for environmental protection
                       and pollution control by sectors in the SRFP

                                                                                Protection of
       Economic                                                                 biodiversity,
                          Solid waste        Effluent       Emissions
          sector                                                                 health and
                                                                                    culture

      Aquaculture      - Fill-up,         - Pond for                         - Not encroaching
                         embankment         settling                           upon sensitive

                       - No discharge       before                             zones (wetland,
                                            replacemen                         natural reserve)
                         to any water
                                            t of water
                         source                                              - Control of
                                          - No                                 epidemic
                                            discharge                          diseases
                                            of
                                            wastewater
                                            to any
                                            canal used
                                            for water
                                            supply for
                                             aquaculture
I 2 1 Animal          I - VAC   model    I - VAC           1Ensuring        1 - Ensuring           1
      Husbandry                                            /                I                      1
                        - VACB model         model          appropriate         appropriate

                                           - VACB           distance (>         distance
                        - Biogas                            100m) from          (>500m) from
                                             model
                          system to                         any                 tourist sites,
                          treat waste      - Biogas         populated           cultural,
                          matters from       system to      area                religious and
                          breeding           treat waste

   Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              139

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Revort (Final)                                       Julv 2007

                    1- Collecting         matters                         1   historic
                       used                from
                                                                           - Control of
                      packages and        breeding
                                                                              epidemic
                       containers          (SS,                               diseases
                       and reselling       organic
                       them               matters,
                                          bacteria,
                                          etc.)


    Agriculture      - Collecting                                          - Encouraging for
                       used                                                   application of
                       containers,                                           IPM
                       treating                                             - Not using
                       before reuse                                           prohibited
                                                                              ~esticides

    Industry,        - Applying         - Applying       - Applying        - Not encroaching
    small              cleaner             cleaner         cleaner            upon sensitive
    industry and       production         production       production         zones and
    handicrafts        and waste           and waste       and waste          ensuring
                       audit               audit           audit              appropriate
                     - Collecting       - Collecting     - Treating           distance (>500m)
                       and treating        and             emissions          from tourist sites,
                       solid waste         treating        to meet the        cultural, religious
                     - Recycling          production       Vietnamese         and historic

                       and reusing         effluent        Standards.         works
                     - Treating           with           - Reducing         - Improving

                       hazardous           appropriate     noise and          working

                       and industrial      technology      vibration          environment,
                       solid waste         to meet the     pollution          providing labor
                                           Vietnamese                         protection means
                                           Environme
                                           ntal
                                           Standards

5   Food             - Applying          - Applying      - Applying         - Not encroaching
    processing         cleaner             cleaner         cleaner            upon sensitive
    (shrimp,           production         production       production         zones and
    fish, salted       and waste           and waste       and waste          ensuring
    fish, sugar,       audit               audit           audit              appropriate
    candy...)        - Collecting        - Collecting    - Treating           distance (>500m)
                       and                 and             emissions          from tourist sites,
                       classifying         treating        to meet the        cultural, religious
                       solid waste         effluent        ~ietnamese         and historic
                     - Recycling           (ss,            Standards.         ~ o r k s
                       and reusing         organic                            (applicable to
                                                                              processing of


 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)              140

SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                     July 2007



                                         Vietnamese                         working
                                         Standards.                         environment,
                                                                            providing labor
                                                                            protection means
   1
    Trading
    - Fuels,
    chemical        - Securing         - Collecting     - Securing        - Providing labor
    fertilizers,      safety of          runoff           safety of        protection means
                     warehouses          water and        warehouses        and fire
    protection      - Treating           skimming                           equipment
    chemicals,       before              oil
    etc.                                                                  - Ensuring
                     reselling
                                                                            distance from
                                                                            populated area,
                                                                            commercial or
                                                                            cultural zones as
                                                                            stipulated by the
                                                                           police

    - Restaurant - Collecting          - Septic         - Well            - Ensuring food
      s and other     and treating       tanks,          ventilating        safety and
      food and        solid waste        closed                             hygiene
      drinking                           sewages
      services

    Transport,      - Collecting                        Meeting           - Ensuring noise
    construction and treating                           requirements vibration and
    machines        solid waste,                        of Vietnam        exhaust emission
                    burning                             Vehicle           do not affect on
                                                        Registrar on      residential,
                                                        emissions         cultural, religious
                                                        and noise         sites

Source: Recommendation by VESDI,April 2007.


5.4. ACTION PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION                       OF THE         ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT PROGRAM OF THE SRFP RELATED TO BIDV AND PFIs

429. In order to implement the Environmental Management Program in the best
manner and to take measures recommended for the BIDV, TCIII and PFIs when
they Jinancially support the projects in the future, the SRFP need to develop an
Environmental Action Plan with main items given in Table 5.2. The main contents
of the plan are given in Section 5.1. In the plan, actions (what to do), concrete
roadmap of implementation, how to do and the responsible persodunit are clearly
defined.




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development lnstitute (VESDI)             141


--                                                          - -..

   SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                    Jury 2007


   Table 5.2: The Environmental Action Plan recommended for the SRFP

  No.        What to do                How to do           Responsible by          Roadmap

1      1Improvement of environmental management capacity of the BIDV                               1
        Improvement of             - Adding                BIDVIWB,             2 courses per
        capacity of the             manpower and           TCIII and the        year (from 2007)
        Environmental                functions for the     Environmental
        Management Division          Environmental         Management
        -TCIII                       Management            Division
                                     Division
                                   - Training on
                                     environmental
                                     management for
                                     officers of the
                                     Environmental
                                     Management
                                     Division through
                                     training courses
                                                          -


        Enhancement of             - Meeting and           TCIII                Regularly (from
        cooperation between          exchanging                                 2007)
                                                           The
        TCIII and                    information and       Environmental
        environmental                notification          Management
        administrations              related to the        Division +
                                     project               Ministry of
                                   - Coordinating          Resources and
                                     training and          Environment,
                                     environmental         Departments of
                                     monitoring            Resources and
                                                           Environment

        Close cooperation          - Exchanging            TCIII, relevant      Regularly
        between the                  information           divisions of TC
        Environmental                between the two       I11
        Management Division          divisions
        and the Examination        - Cooperating in
        Division in examining        examining PFIs
        PFIs and subprojects         and subprojects

 1      Further guidelines for environmental management with respect to PFIs                        1
                                                          I        '
        Training programs on       - Preparing                                  2 training
        environment for credit       suitable programs Environmental            courses per year    ,
                                              -            TC1ll The
                                                   -

        officers of PFIs           - Organizing            Management           (1 in the North
                                                           Division
                                     training courses                           and 1 in the
                                     in the North and      PFIs                 South)


   Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            142

 SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                    July 2007

                                I'  the South
     I


      Further information of      - Receiving            TCIII I the
      environmental                 information from     Environmental
      protection to PFI and         the WB and           Management
      subprojects                   environmental        Division
                                    administrations
                                  - Preparing guide
                                    books, posters,
                                    leaflets, video
                                    clips
                                  - Providing
                                    documents to
                                    PFIs and some
                                    subprojects under
                                   high risk
                                    category

      Enhancement of              - Preparing            The
      checkup (supervision)        contents and          Environmental
      of compliance with the       methods of            Management
      "Environmental               checkup               Division of
      Guidelines" with            - Cooperating with     TCIII I PFIs
      respect to PFIs and
                                    Service of           and relevant
      subprojects
                                   Resources and         subprojects

                                    Environment in
                                    checkup of PFIs
                                  - Checking up
                                    some projects
                                   having bid
                                   environmental
                                   problems

      Recommendation to           - Evaluating the       The                  Twice per year
      BIDV on how to treat          results of PFIs'     Environmental        (once in 2007)
      with the PFIs that fail       implementation       Management
      to comply with the            of the               Division I TCIII
      "Environmental                "Environmental
      Guidelines"                   Guidelines"
                                  - Recommending
                                    the BIDV to take
                                    appropriate
                                    treatment
                                    allowable by
                                    laws
                                                                             I


8     Storage of                  - Collecting           The                  Regularly


 Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           143

  SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                     July 2007


      environmental                 environmental         Environmental
      information of the            information from      Management
      project                       PFIs, subprojects     Division -
                                    and Ministry of       TCIII
                                    Natural
                                    Resources and
                                    Environment
                                  - Handling and
                                    storing (in
                                    computers and
                                    printed copies)
1    1Improvement of environmental management capacity of PFIs                                     1
      Improvement of credit       - Training on           PFI Director in      1 course per
      officers' capacity of         environmental         cooperation          year for any PFI
      environmental                 management and        with the             (from 2007)
      management and                monitoring for        Environmental
      monitoring                    credit officers       Management
                                                          Division of
                                                          BIDV,
                                                          Departments of
                                                          Resources and
                                                          Environment
                                                          and
                                                          Independent
                                                          Environmental
                                                          Consultant

      Further guidelines on       - Collaborating         PFI director1        - During
      environmental                 with local            Environmental          engagement of
      protection from PFI to        environmental         Management             environmental
      subproject owners             management            Unit of PFI           protection
                                    agencies in           local                - 2 training
                                    guiding               environmental
                                                                                courses per
                                    subproject            officers
                                                                                 year for
                                    owners to prepare
                                                                                 subprojects
                                    the Commitment
                                    on
                                    Environmental
                                   Protection
                                    (following the
                                    guidelines of the
                                   Ministry of
                                    Resources and
                                   Environment)
                                  - Guidelines
                                   related to the

  Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)            144

  SRFP -Environmental Assessment Report (Final)                                    July 2007


                                    environmental
                                    protection law
                                    and regulations
                                    stipulated by
                                    WB, BIDV
                                  - Guidelines
                                    related to
                                    measures for
                                   pollution control
                                    by means of
                                    training courses
                                    andlor visits

      Enhancement of              - conducting            Environmental        - Regularly
      monitoring and                supervision           PFIs credit
      supervision of                missions to check officers +
      subprojects'                  up environmental      environmenta1
      compliance with               management at         management
      environmental                 the subprojects       administrations
      regulations                   having major          of
                                    environmental         provinceldistrict
                                   problems
                                  - Recommending
                                    measures
                                    applicable to the
                                    subprojects that
                                    fail to comply

     Ensuring resources for Environmental Management of the SRFP                                1
112 I Ensuring   human            - Recruiting   and      - BIDV               From 2008
                                    adding                - PFIs
                                   manpower for EP
                                    within TCIII and
                                    PFIs
                                          -

                                  - Providing             - BIDV with the
                                    sufficient budget       support from
                                    for human               the WB via
                                    resources and           projects
                                    environmental
                                   protection
                                    activities of
                                    TCIII, PFI
  -      - - -                        -


  Source: Recommendation by VESDI,May 2007




  Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)           145

SRFP Environmental Impact Assessment Report (Final)
     -                                                                          July 2007



                CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS


430.   Based on the tasks specified in the service of "Environmental consulting
service for the SRFP" and requirements of the Bank for Investment and
Development of Vietnam (BIDV) as given in the "Term of Reference", the
Consultant (the Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute -
VESDI) has accomplished the activities as follows:
    -   Cooperate with the Appraisal Division and the Environment Division of the
        TC IIIIBIDV and PFIs in screening and selecting 521 subprojects
        (production    -   business entities receiving proceeds from the SRFP)
        including 111 subprojects of high risk group.
    -   Classify the selected subprojects by ecological %conomic regions and by
        economic sectors.
    -   Conduct field survey and on-site assessment of environmental impacts in
        521 subprojects in 6 ecological - economic regions nationwide.
    -   Carry out site study, interviews and assessment on PFIs' compliance with
        the "Environmental Guidelines".

    -   Handle collected data, questionnaires and establishment of theme reports on
        the regions and the overall EIA report on the entire Second Rural Finance
        Project based on results of the investigation that covered 521 subprojects
        and 21 PFIs.
    -   Deliver recommendations for the Environmental Management Program
        (EMP) for the project in the future that includes an Environmental Action
        Plan for the BIDV, PFIs and measures for pollution control and
        environment protection suitable for subproject owners.

431. Based on survey and environmental impact assessment of 521 subprojects,
which have been selected with the method of systematic random sampling, the
results of the study in this assignment can represent the overall situation of
environmental management of subprojects under the SRFP nationwide.

432. The obtained study results shown the level of 21 PFIs' compliance with the
Environmental Guidelines as follows: 33.3% of PFIs has Good compliance; other
33.3% of PFIs has Fair compliance; and the remaining 33.3% has Medium
compliance level.

433. The study results indicate that subprojects' awareness of environmental
protection integrated with production - business depends on the impartment and
checkup (monitoring) by the BIDV and PFIs of implementation of Commitment of
Environmental Protection. The survey of 521 subprojects found that a major part of
subproject owners have improved their awareness of environment protection thanks
to the project. Therefore, many subprojects have improved the working
environment, applying good model to increase economic effectiveness in
combination with pollution control, particularly the projects of such sectors as
animal husbandry, aquaculture and some subprojects of the sector of industry, small
industry. The improvement in environmental awareness and efficiency of


Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         146

SRFP Environmental Impact Assessment Report (Final)
      -
                                                                                 July 2007


environment protection of the subprojects are outstanding contribution of the SRFP
in integration of production into environmental protection in rural areas of Vietnam.

434.    The study results found that in total 521 visited subprojects including 111
subprojects of high risk group, there are only 42 subprojects (accounting for 8.06%
of the total assessed subprojects) causing medium environmental impacts (level of
impact is compared with impacts caused by other subprojects in this Project). Most
of those belong to industrial and small industrial sectors (paper recycling, resin
recycling, brick production.. .), animal husbandry and food processing. In fact, all
these entities operated before the Project, therefore, in case of without the Project
they may cause similar impacts on the environment. The integration of
environmental requirements into conditions of loans borrowed has supported
subproject owners to have more concern on pollution control and natural resource
conservation. This help subprojects of high-risk group minimize the potential
negative impacts on environment.

435.   Most of the subprojects causing medium impacts on the environment belong
to the industry and small industry sectors. However, this sector occupies only 0.24%
of the total subprojects and only 2.34% of the total loans from SRFP. Therefore, it
may be concluded that on the nation-wide scale, the impacts of the SPFP on
environmental pollution is negligible. In contrary, the project has effectively
promoted activities of most subprojects in pollution prevention and protection of the
environment.

436.   Considering of the obtained results from environmental impact assessment
(environmental audit) on 521 subprojects under the Project, it is necessary to point
out that though the activities of environmental protection and pollution control have
been improved significantly thanks to the Environmental Guidelines, there still
existing issues in some subprojects including:

        (i) In some aquaculture subprojects: The most concerned environmental
issue is the water pollution. This impact is assessed as medium but difficult to
mitigate in case that proper planning water intake and drainage systems at the
aquaculture farms are not implemented by the local governments.

       (ii) In some animal husbandry subprojects: The most concerned
environmental issue is the offensive smell, wastewater. Manures are also major
sources of pollution. Nevertheless, more than 50% subprojects have taken measures
for waste treatment by means of biogas pits or VACB model (garden             -  pond   -

pigsty  - biogas); thereby the impacts of pollution are signzficantly mitigated. The
subprojects which have not taken those measures usually cause negative impacts on
the environment.

        (iii)Agriculture subprojects: In general, those subprojects have not made any
significant impact on the environment.

        (iv) In a number of industry and small industry subprojects: Particularly in
some subprojects of recycling and production of paper, plastics, bricks and tiles,
environmental pollution due to effluent and emission assessed as medium and
affects the surrounding environment.

        (v) In some food processing subprojects: The most attentive environmental
impact of this sector is pollution due to offensive smell, effluent, and solid waste

consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)         147

SRFP Environmental Impact Assessment Report (Final)
      -                                                                                       Julj~200 7


from storage and processing. The pollution due to waste matters and offensive smell
is assessed as medium but its impacting area is limited.

         (vi) Trading subprojects: Those have not created any significant impact on
the environment.

         (vii) Transport         -  construction subprojects: Those have not created any
significant impact on the environment.

         (viii) Among the surveyed subprojects, none encroaches upon natural
reserves or causes significant impacts on wild life.

437.     By integration of environmental management with lending activities, the
Second Rural Finance Project has made significant contribution to the improvement
of awareness and action of PFIs and subprojects in environment protection, and
furthermore into the sustainable rural development of Vietnam.

438. Nevertheless, for more effective integration                    of environmental protection
with production         -  business towards sustainable development, the Consultant has
made recommendations for the project an Environmental Management Program,
which includes an "Environmental Action Plan" together with concrete roadmaps,
what-to-do and how-to-do for the BIDV and PFIs to best implement the task of
environment protection on funded subprojects. The Environmental Management
Program of the Project also includes recommendations and guidance for subprojects
to implement their commitment of Environmental Protection with feasible measures
such as self management of the environment, pollution prevention and control,
biodiversity conservation. They are more importantly applicable in conditions of
limited technology, knowledge and finance of households in rural areas of Vietnam.

439.     Many lessons have learned from results of "Environment Consulting service"
and recommendations for actions with regard to environmental protection in the
coming future of relevant parties (WB, BIDV, PFIs, subproject owners and
Department of Natural Resource and Environment) have been made.

440.     From the results of EIA (environmental audit) for this Project, with high
contribution of the SRFP into the improvement of economic development and
environmental improvement in the rural areas of Vietnam, next phases of the project
are highly recommended in order to further promote the positive socio-economic-
environmental impacts that the project have been bringing to the rural areas in
Vietnam.



443.     N:\EASRD        Cluster      1U006-2007  Vietnam,   Thailand,   Myanmar\Vietnam\Rural    Finance
III\SafeguardsEL4FinalReport\Conclusion.doc




Consultant: Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI)                       148


