Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2999 
Project Name 
Vietnam Third Rural Finance Project 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Micro- and SME finance (100%) 
Project ID 
P100916 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
 
The State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Ly Thai To 
Vietnam 
Tel: 84 4 9343 361 
Fax: 84 4 8250612 
fdsbv@fpt.vn 
The Government of Vietnam 
Vietnam 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 4, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 1, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
March 18, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Vietnam’s annual development growth rate for 2006-2010 is estimated between 7.5% - 8%.  Based on its 
latest growth and poverty reduction strategies, during this 5-year-period, the Government of Vietnam 
estimates that the total investment needs for the  rural economy will be in the order of VND300,000 
billion or on average around US$4 billion per annum. Private enterprises, whose activities were negligible 
in 1993, now account for over half of the investments made each year. In this period, in order to improve 
the quality of the investments, the Government of Vietnam intends to increasingly rely on efficient, 
private investments. Even if the share of private investments in the rural economy is kept at the same 
trend as in recent years, when they contributed about 50% of total investment on average, private 
investments in the rural economy would have to be in the order of about US$ 1.6 billion per annum.  
While the proposed RFIII Project would finance less than 1% of the total expected credit demand, most of 
which would be for medium- and long-term investment, it is expected to have a significant demonstration 
and catalytic effect through further strengthening banks and further solidifying the existing initial 
foundation for a sustainable rural finance system in Vietnam.  
 
Although progress has been made in the formalization of the financial sector, Vietnam still lags in the 
outreach of financial services. The 2005 (unpublished) World Bank Investment Climate Assessment 
found that access to finance is the number one constraint facing businesses in Vietnam.  The investment 
survey results show that it is the access to finance, rather than the cost of finance, that concerns firms 
most.  In addition, all SOEs, especially 100% State Owned Enterprises (SOEs), have much greater access 
to commercial and developmental financing sources than private firms, many of which are smaller scale 
and located in rural areas.   
 
Page  2
About 75% of Vietnam population is still living in the rural area with agriculture as their main source of 
livelihood, a sustainable rural finance system with sufficient outreach, scale of operations, diversified 
products and services.  The outreach in the rural sector still remains low with less than 30 percent having 
access to term-credit and financial services.  Continued support would assist more private enterprises and 
individuals in the rural areas to invest in assets, expand their production capacity, create employment 
opportunities, generate rural economic growth, and hence contribute to narrowing the rural-urban income 
gap.  VBARD, while still financially weak, is the largest financial institution in the rural sector and needs 
substantial external advisory support to overcome numerous challenges it faces ahead.   In addition, there 
is a strong need to involve more private banks to diversify their market shares in the rural areas by 
helping them understand the risks associated with rural lending and develop risk mitigating measures.  
 
Private firms finance almost 75 percent of their new investments from non-commercial sources, such as 
(non-market) equity investments, and family and friends, in addition to internal funds (retained earnings).  
This high dependence on non-commercial financial sources substantially limits the rate and degree to 
which private firms can grow in size and expand into new markets.  Beyond these factors, if an enterprise 
does obtain bank financing, it is usually relatively short-term and thus, not well suited to medium- and 
long-term investments.  A combination of factors have led to this situation, including weak business 
plans, a lack of audited accounts and credit history, insufficient collateral, etc. from the enterprises, and 
an aversion among financial institutions to smaller-scale, potentially more risky (compared to SOEs), less 
well-known companies.  However, the primary reason is the lack of medium- and long-term funds 
available to banks, particularly medium- and long-term deposits, which they can use for on-lending as 
medium and long term loans.   Based on the information provided by State Bank of Vietnam (SBV), only 
one-third of the deposits raised in the banking sector in Vietnam are longer than 12 months.  As such, 
short-term sources have been used to finance term-loan needs creating a maturity mismatch and potential 
liquidity problems.  Due to the increasing demand for term-financing, SBV has issued a new decision to 
allow financial institutions increase the ratio of using short-term fund to finance term-loan from 
maximum of 25% to a maximum of 40%.       
 
2. 
Rural Finance Program in Vietnam to Date
 
The Bank has a decade of experience dealing with rural finance in Vietnam.  There has been a steady 
improvement in the banking sector during that period, some of which can be attributed to a series of two 
rural finance projects financed by the Bank.  The first Rural Finance Project (RF I) closed in 2001 with an 
OED ex-post analysis rating of satisfactory, with recognition that the overall impact of the project had 
been substantial, particularly in the area of institutional development.  Seven banks participated in this 
Project, having met the accreditation criteria set under the project. The RFII became effective in 2003 and 
is expected to close on 2008.  Twenty two financial institutions joined RF II, of which 20 are private 
banks, showing a significant improvement in the banking system. Under these two rural finance 
operations, the Bank has provided a total $310 million of IDA resources for on-lending and capacity 
building purposes.  While the aggregate IDA rural finance credits represent less than 1% of the total 
formal credit outstanding in the domestic market today, these operations have had a far reaching impact 
on advancing the development of the rural finance system.  The first internal and external ex-post and 
independent assessments of these operations confirm that they have contributed to development of the 
rural economy and improvement of the living conditions in the rural areas.  This was achieved through 
encouraging investments of farm households and private rural entrepreneurs, by extending additional 
medium and long term financial resources; strengthening the banking system's capacity to better serve the 
rural economy; and increasing access of the rural poor to financial services.  The proposed Third Rural 
Finance Project (RF III) would continue to develop the banking system and expand medium term credit 
for rural investments.  
 
Page  3
2. Objectives 
 
Project Development Objective 
 
The development objective of the proposed RFIII would be to increase economic benefits to 
rural private enterprises and households by increasing their access to finance in a financially and 
environmentally sustainable manner. 
 
Key Performance Indicators 
 
The following are selected outcome and output indicators for the Project.  A detailed list is presented in 
Annex 3.   
 
Outcome Indicators:  
 
i)increased amount of capital investment made by the rural entrepreneurs 
ii)incremental increase in employment;  
 
Output Indicators: 
i)Volume of  term loans (a proxy for access to credit resources) 
ii) Number of borrowers (a measure of the effectiveness of targeting SMEs)  
iii) Percentage of borrowers who are first time users of a new lending product, such as first time 
borrowers or first time borrowers of medium term credit.  (this would be a proxy for bank 
outreach and new product development)
 
The Project supports Government’s goal of economic growth, employment creation 
opportunities, rural development acceleration through financing of rural micro and small private 
investments, and income generation improvement of a significant proportion of the population 
by promoting broad-based, private sector-led growth in rural areas.   
 
The Project is consistent with the World Bank Vietnam Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), and 
the overall World Bank PRSC program of broader financial sector reform and improvement of 
the rural sector.   
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
1.  Support for the Broader Financial Sector Reforms and Linkage to Rural Development 
 
Access to finance is one of the four pillars of the World Bank’s overall financial sector 
development strategy in Vietnam.  The Government of Vietnam’s strategies for poverty 
reduction, financial sector development, and growth in rural areas all emphasize the 
importance of greater access to financial services to facilitate economic growth.  Expanded 
access to formal finance not only facilitates the efficient mobilization and intermediation of 
funds in the economy, but it also allows the poor to protect, diversify, and increase their 
sources of income.  The Bank has and continues to focus on expanding access to finance in 
Page  4
Vietnam through two inter-related approaches: Financial System and Sector Investment 
–
level support.   
 
There is a compelling need for continued engagement in rural finance in Vietnam, and specifically for 
World Bank involvement.  The four main reasons include the need to: 
 
a. 
Continue to facilitate operational restructuring within the banking system. 
b. 
Increase the involvement of private banks in lending to rural areas. 
c. 
Fill the medium- to long-term financing gaps. 
d. 
Catalyze expanded market-based financing for rural sector investments. 
 
By providing term financing to finance investments of rural households and micro and small 
private enterprises, which would not be available from elsewhere, the IDA is able to directly 
support private sector investment in the rural areas to generate rural growth while at the same 
time assisting in strengthening the financial institutions which provide financial services.  It is 
expected, this Project will contribute to the development of the local financial market by helping 
the participating financial institutions (PFI) to raise long-term funds and to realize the feasibility 
of increasing their lending to MSEs.   
 
One of the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC)’s important program is to promote the 
banking sector reform in Vietnam, and this Project will play a critical role of supporting such 
reform and contribute to the successful implementation of the existing banking sector reform 
roadmap.  Most importantly, this Project will provide direct technical support to the wholesale 
bank and participating financial institutions.   
 
4. Description 
a. project components 
 
The RFIII would repeat many of the features of the RFII project but it would also introduce some 
new elements in order to take into account new developments in the rural finance market.  
Numerous private banks have already expressed their interest in participating in the proposed 
project.  A total IDA financing of about $100 million is envisioned.  
 
The following preliminary components are envisaged 
 
1.  
Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises (US$85million IDA financing) 
2. 
Increase Rural Poor Access to Microfinance (US$ 5 million IDA financing) 
3. 
Build Institutional Capacity and New Product Development (US$10million IDA 
financing) 
Component I: Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises  
–
($175 million 
estimated) 
 
Page  5
The line of credit operation would mirror the RF2 in terms of the processing, terms, etc., as it has 
been found that the credit from the apex bank to the PFIs, and from the PFIs to the end borrowers 
is in line with market rates and not causing any market distortions.  In addition, it provids term 
financing to PFIs that is not readily available in the market, which is facilitating growth in 
demand for longer-term investment loans.   
 
This component primarily addresses the term financing constraints of financial institutions and of 
rural enterprises. The goal is to enable rural private entrepreneurs to access funds needed for 
capital formation and technological advances and upgrades. This component could also provide 
support to leasing companies to finance newly established private firms that do not have required 
collateral.   
 
The following eligibility criteria will be applied:   
 
Sub-projects to be financed should be physically located outside the four big cities in 
Vietnam including Hanoi, Ho Chi Min City, Danang and Haiphong.   
-
Sub-loans should be for capital investments in productive assets and associated 
working capital loans. 
-
Sub-loans should be limited to $50,000 per sub-project. 
-
Sub-loan larger than $50,000 per sub-project could be approved provided that it 
can be demonstrated that they are in rural areas and will have a large incremental 
impact on the rural economy in terms of employment creation.  
-
Sub-loans should be targeted at micro and small enterprises with less than 50 
employees.  
Component II:  
–
Increase Rural Poor Access to Microfinance
 
($10 million estimated) 
 
This component will provide a small amount of funding to demonstrate the profit ability of 
microfinance lending, and to encourage the participating of financial institutions, including the 
eligible rural joint stock banks, rural PCFs (small rural financial cooperatives) and NGOs who 
will be granted license of providing micro finance services in Vietnam in the near future.  It is 
expected that sub-loans for short term financing would be available for first-time borrowers 
(household or micro business).  These sub-loans would be limited to $500 per borrower.   
Component III: Build Institutional Capacity and New Product Development ($15 million 
estimated)  
 
An institution strengthening fund would be developed to allow the apex bank and PFIs to 
borrow for capacity building.   
-
Apex Bank 
–
Substantial assistance will be needed to continue strengthening the bank, on 
organization, corporate governance, and operational areas of the bank.  In addition to the 
broader assistance needs, the apex would need assistance on carrying out the wholesale 
banking operation and in monitoring the PFIs.   
Page  6
-
PFIs 
–
The PFIs have varied needs for technical assistance and training, from the broader 
range of institutional strengthening to credit appraisal and risk management specific to 
the RF3 lending operation.  The support to the PFIs will allow them to upgrade operating 
standards in areas like risk management systems, existing data management practices and 
procedures, improve collection techniques in small business banking.   The PFIs would 
likely need training on lending on a longer-term basis, raising longer-term funds 
(including new products such as bonds, CDs, etc.), new systems for managing unsecured 
lending and lending to small-sized rural enterprises and households, using the movable 
assets registry, marketing to new market segments, and other issues surrounding rural 
enterprise business development.  
 
-
The Project will provide soft financing for investments in business expansion of the PFIs 
into under-served rural areas.  The possible investments could include limited mobile 
banking cars to those private PFIs, fixed assets such as setting up new rural branches or 
outlet (including ATMs) expansion and IT systems to help manage credit risks associated 
with rural enterprises. 
 
-
End-Borrowers (rural enterprises and household business) -   Most of the borrowers 
would need some assistance in terms of creating business plans, developing accounts, 
finding sales markets, and a wide variety of other training needs.  This could also include 
capacity building on what banks require for issuing loans and other training specific to 
the lending process.  The Project will work with Vietnam SME Association and provide 
TA and training activities to the MSE owners/managers on how to improve their 
efficiency and profitability, how to prepare the business plan which is better linked to the 
requirement from the financial institutions.  The training can include but is not limited to 
marketing, human resources management, production & Operations development, 
finance & accounting skills.   
 
-
PCF Association – The newly set up PCF Association would need substantial support to 
sustain its operation and set standards across the PCF system with more than 900 
financial cooperatives operating in the rural Vietnam. 
-
Funding for new product development will be designed to be very flexible and would be 
defined during project implementation to better meet the changes and progress facing by 
the banking sector in Vietnam.  This would finance innovations in the provision of rural 
financial services and supporting those PFIs that are interested in offering new products 
to rural enterprises and households.  This could cover a range of products, such as leasing 
and insurance. This component can also finance cashflow-based credit technologies that 
would provide the PFIs with simple, client-responsive, standardized loan product designs 
with built-in specialized accounting, monitoring, risk management and management 
information systems designed specifically for small-scale loans.  
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 30 
International Development Association (IDA) 
200 
Page  7
Total 230 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The team plans to apply $5million grant from Japan PHRD technical assistance program for co-
financing the institutional strengthening component.  However, there is only $5million grant 
available for the whole World Bank and it would be impossible to secure the $5million for this 
proposed Project under current trench.  
 
AFD is considering line-of-credit operation going through BIDV.  AFD agrees that we should 
apply common approach to setting interest rates, and that this approach should approximate 
market rates as closely as possible.  It has also been agreed within the World Bank that there 
would be a coordinated approach for all lines-of-credit finance by the World Bank.       
 
The credit would be made to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam for on-lending to BIDV.  The 
Ministry of Finance will then on-lend the funds to BIDV based on an on-lending agreement.  
BIDV would assume overall responsibility for project implementation.  BIDV will on-lends the 
proceeds to eligible PFIs based on the terms and conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
(SLAs) signed between BIDV and PFIs.  The PFI, will, in turn, extend sub-loans to eligible 
MSEs and households borrowers.     
 
BIDV has already established a Project Management Unit which is part of the BIDV’s core 
transaction center.  This PMU has equipped with committed and capable staff and they are the 
champion in achieving the Project development objectives and ensure the compliance the IDA’s 
safeguard policies.  The PMU has several units including Accreditation Division in charge of 
financial analysis of the interested financial institutions; Appraisal Division in charge of 
eligibility of sub-projects financed; Environment Division in charge of compliance of the IDA’s 
safeguard policy; Finance and Accounting Division in charge of funds flow and bookkeeping; 
Training Division responsible for the training activities for both the staff from PMU, BIDV and 
the PFIs; and the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Division responsible for institutional 
strengthening component and project reporting and evaluation activities.   
 
7. Sustainability 
 
This project and the other projects in this series of line-of-credit operations is designed as an 
interim intervention in commercial loan markets for rural areas during a period when the banking 
system is in the process of reform.  During this period of reform, a lack of confidence in the 
banking system results in a shortage of deposits which in turn results in a shortage of funds 
available for onlending.  In the first project there was a shortage of liquidity across all deposit 
terms.  Over time short term liquidity has increased, but there is still a shortage of liquidity in the 
medium and long term deposit market which in turn results in a shortage of medium or long term 
loans  or a high risk of term mismatch in the banks.  The provision of a medium and long term 
lines of credit to PFIs under the proposed loan offers them an opportunity to overcome this 
market failure until such time as confidence in the bank system increases.  The project will 
Page  8
encourage the development of medium and long term deposit instruments through its Capacity 
Building and New Products Development Component.  It is also expected to reduce the length of 
the transition process by providing funds for training, information system upgrades for PFIs, and 
new product development.  At the end of this series of line of credit projects, there would be 
enough reliable and efficient commercial banks with experience in lending to rural areas, and 
generating enough medium term deposits to ensure sufficient medium and long term lending to 
rural areas on a sustainable commercial basis.           
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
There is a substantial body of knowledge that has been accumulated by the Bank on line-
of-credit operations.  A report was recently completed by the Independent Evaluation Group 
(IEG) “World Bank Lending for Lines of Credit.  The key lessons from this report are that i) a 
stable macroeconomic environment is a necessary condition for a successful line of credit 
operation; ii) The requirements of OP 8.30 should be met, which includes, clear accreditation 
criteria for participating banks, backed up by institutional development plans for those banks that 
do not meet all the criteria, and established procedures for environmental safeguards; iii) a 
conservative estimate of the disbursement rates for the line of credit based on an assessment of 
the demand for credit under the prevailing interest rate regime; and iv) non-distortion interest 
rates with any subsidy documented and justified.  This loan would incorporate all of these 
recommendations.       
 
This project would be the third in a series of rural credit operations.  Lessons learned 
from these earlier operations are i) The combination of a line-of-credit facility, technical 
assistance, minimum accreditation criteria and institutional development plans has proved more 
effective in inducing change in the banking sector than focusing the project on any one of these 
factors alone.  This design has provided the basis for an open dialog with participating banks, 
suggesting improvements in their operations, raising the importance of better environmental 
screening, and funding for implementation.  This project retains this core design from earlier 
projects but, since it is the third project in the series, has added additional funding for developing 
and testing new products.  ii) Based on the monitoring and evaluation results for these two 
projects, small and medium size enterprises have had a greater incremental impact on job 
creation that other segments of the market, as a result the project would tighten the targeting of 
loans to focus on the SME sector.  iii) The first and second projects have successively reduced 
their dependence on VBARD as the only vehicle to obtain coverage in remote areas.  Under the 
first loan 70 percent of the loan was disbursed through VBARD, under the second project the 
disbursement share is currently at 50 percent.  The total share is expected to reduce further in 
under the third project as private banks grow and gain market share.  However, VBARD is still 
the only operator in many remote locations, and the third project will still depend on VBARD to 
provide broad geographic coverage.  iv)While the second project has made an important 
contribution to improving the operation of banks, the institutional reform objectives set by the 
project were too high.  The third project should set more realistic institutional objectives.          
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Page  9
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[x] [] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
1. 
Project Concept Note, October 2006 
 
2. 
Draft PCN at QER Stage, October 2006 
 
3. 
draft Environmental Safeguards Annex to PAD, January 2007 
 
4. 
Detailed Cost Tables (?) 
 
5. 
Project Implementation Manual (?) 
 
6. 
Feasibility Studies (?) 
 
7. 
draft Financial Management Assessment, January 2007 
 
8. 
Financial Management Assessment, February 2007 
 
9. 
Diagnostic Review of Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development by Miguel 
Sanchez de Pedro, November 2006 
10. 
BIDV's financial performance and IDP implementation letter,
 
January 2007 
 
11. 
Report on Institutional Framework (?) 
 
12. 
Microfinance Development Studies/Reports (?) 
 
13. 
Mission Aid Memoire 
·
June 2006. Aide-Memoire Reconnaisance Mission 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  10
·
August 2006.  Aide Memoire Identification Mission 
·
January 2007. Aide-Memoire Preparation Mission 
·
(?)  Aide-Memoire Pre-Appraisal Mission 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Xiaolan Wang 
Title: Senior Operations Officer 
Tel: (202) 458-0832 
Fax:  
Email: Xwang@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
