Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  10/04/2007 
Report No.:  AC2862
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Vietnam 
Project ID:  P100916 
Project Name:  Vietnam Third Rural Finance Project 
Task Team Leader:  Xiaolan Wang 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 15, 
2007 
Estimated Board Date: March 28, 2008 
Managing Unit:  EASRE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Micro- and SME finance (100%) 
Theme:  Small and medium enterprise support (P);Other financial and private sector 
development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
200.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
90.00
90.00 
Environmental Category: F - Financial Intermediary Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
Project Development Objective  
 
The development objective of the proposed RFIII would be to increase economic 
benefits to rural private enterprises and households by increasing their access to finance 
in a financially and environmentally sustainable manner.  
 
Key Performance Indicators  
 
The following are selected outcome and output indicators for the Project.  A detailed list 
is presented in Annex 3 of Project Appraisal Report (PAD).  
 
Outcome Indicators:  
 
i)increased amount of capital investment made by the rural entrepreneurs  
 
ii)incremental increase in employment;  
 
Page  2
Output Indicators:  
 
i) Volume of term loans (a proxy for access to credit resources)  
 
ii) Number of borrowers (a measure of the effectiveness of targeting SMEs)  
 
iii) Percentage of borrowers who are first time users of a new lending product, such as 
first time borrowers or first time borrowers of medium term credit.  (a proxy for bank 
outreach and new product development)  
 
The Project supports Government's goal of economic growth, employment creation 
opportunities, rural development acceleration through financing of rural micro and small 
private investments, and income generation improvement of a significant proportion of 
the population by promoting broad-based, private sector-led growth in rural areas.  
 
The Project is consistent with the World Bank Vietnam Country Assistance Strategy 
(CAS), and the overall World Bank PRSC program of broader financial sector reform and 
improvement of the rural sector.   
 
3. Project Description 
A. 
project components  
 
The RFIII would repeat many of the features of the RFII project but it would also 
introduce some new elements in order to take into account new developments in the rural 
finance market.  Numerous private banks have already expressed their interest in 
participating in the proposed project.  A total IDA financing of about $200 million is 
envisioned.  
 
The following preliminary components are envisaged  
 
1.  
Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises (US$175 million IDA 
financing)  
 
2.
Increase Rural Poor Access to Microfinance (US$ 10 million IDA financing)  
 
3.
Build Institutional Capacity and New Product Development (US$15 million IDA 
financing)  
 
Component I: Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises ($175 million 
estimated)  
 
The line of credit operation would mirror the RF2 in terms of the processing, terms, etc., 
as it has been found that the credit from the apex bank to the PFIs, and from the PFIs to 
the end borrowers is in line with market rates and not causing any market distortions.  In 
addition, it provids term financing to PFIs that is not readily available in the market, 
which is facilitating growth in demand for longer-term investment loans.  
 
Component II:  Increase Rural Poor Access to Microfinance ($10 million estimated)  
 
Page  3
This component will provide a small amount of funding to demonstrate the profit ability 
of microfinance lending, and to encourage the participating of financial institutions, 
including the eligible rural joint stock banks, rural PCFs (small rural financial 
cooperatives) and NGOs who will be granted license of providing micro finance services 
in Vietnam in the near future.  It is expected that sub-loans for short term financing 
would be available for first-time borrowers (household or micro business).  These sub-
loans would be limited to $500 per borrower.  
 
Component III: Build Institutional Capacity and New Product Development ($15 
million estimated)  
 
An institution strengthening fund would be developed to allow the apex bank and PFIs 
to borrow for capacity building.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
This is a demand driven operation and largely in general, will be implemented outside the 
four big cities: Hanoi, Da Nang, Hai Phong, and Ho Chi Minh City.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Hoa Thi Mong Pham (EASVS) 
Mr Vinh Quoc Duong (EASVS) 
Ms Trang Phuong Thi Nguyen (EASVS) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
This Project has a safeguards classification of FI (Financial Intermediary).  As with all FI 
classified projects, exact investments to be carried out under the Project cannot be 
identified a priori, but are selected on a competitive basis during the course of project 
implementation.  The project triggers the Environmental Assessment and Pest 
Management Safeguards.  By design, the project will not finance sub-projects that would 
Page  4
trigger safeguard policies on  i) natural habitats; ii) involuntary resettlement; iii) forests; 
iv) physical cultural resources; v) indigenous people; vi) safety of dams vii) projects in 
disputed areas; and viii) international waterways. Sub-projects that would trigger these 
safeguards policies are included in the negative list of sub-projects that may not be 
financed under the Project.  In Vietnam, most of ethnic minority people are entitled to 
subsidized credits specifically targeted to them and they are likely not interested in the 
market rate loan as regulated under the project. Appraisal of the Projects compliance with 
IDA's environmental and pest management safeguard policies is discussed in more detail 
in Annex 10 of PAD.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
This project will not finance subprojects from the negative list of the Enviroment 
Guideline. The project would not cause or contribute to long term or cumulative negative 
impacts.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
not relevant   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Since this is a follow-on operation from the Rural Finance II project, using the same 
implementation agency (Project Management Unit of the wholesale Bank), an 
environmental procedure has already been prepared entitled "Guidelines of Environment 
Impact Assessment and Monitoring for Subprojects Financed RFII."  This guideline 
includes procedures for appraisal, evaluation and monitoring environment and pest 
management safeguard compliance by the proposed sub-projects.   These environmental 
compliance procedures are reviewed at least once a year in the course of IDA's 
supervision cycle.  The same arrangement including environmental audit schedule will be 
applied out under the RF III Project, at mid-term and the end of the project.  The project 
management unit in the wholesale Bank already has an established environment unit 
staffed with specialists for the purpose of monitoring environmental compliance under 
RFII.  It has one full time environmental specialist on staff.  This unit would be 
responsible for environmental compliance under RFIII.  There is also sufficient 
environmental consultant capacity in Vietnam to carry out independent environmental 
audits of sub-projects.  In addition, under RFIII Project, the Government will allocate 
fund to carry out specific trainings catering to environment compliance activities and 
prepare and distribute environment compliance pamphlet to all the end-borrowers.  
 
Pest Management Plan.   The Pest Management Plan for the project will be a part of the 
environmental guidelines.  Project sub-loan funds may be used for the purchase of 
fertilizers by small-scale farmers.  Since the pesticide purchases under the project will be 
limited to small amounts of pesticide for on farm use, purchased on a commercial basis 
from local suppliers.  The Project Management Unit (PMU) will produce a pamphlet that 
will include lists of pesticides that not eligible for financing under the project (the 
Page  5
negative list), it will also include list of pesticides in other categories and instructions for 
their safe use.  This pamphlet will be distributed by PFIs to all sub-borrowers who could 
potentially use the sub-loan for the purchase of pesticides. Monitoring of pesticide use 
will be part of the regular environmental monitoring and audit.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders are the Ministry of Finance, State Bank of Vietnam, Ministry of 
Resources and Environment, the wholesale bank, the participating financial institutions 
(PFIs), and the end-borrowers.  The on-going Second Rural Finance Project has 
developed Environment Guidelines which has been distributed and used by all key 
stakeholders, and this Project is recognized as a first ever banking sector project in 
Vietnam that integrates the environmental considerations into the small credit lending 
activities.  Now it is acknowledged by all the PFIs that environmental compliance by sub-
projects financed is an important factor during the loan appraisal process.  There is strong 
interest from the key stakeholders to disseminate good practices of RFII which integrate 
environmental considerations into small credit activities and encourage the financial 
sector to adopt the same approach beyond the rural finance project, without causing a 
high cost to the commercial banks.  Couple of workshop has been held to disseminate the 
findings of independent consultant's environment audit report to generate public 
consultation.  The proposed Third Rural Finance Project has improved the Environment 
Guideline which including Pest Management Plan and will be distributed to all key 
stakeholders, including all credit officers.   A pamphlet will be prepared based on the 
guideline and will be distributed to all end-borrowers.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
08/16/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/15/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/12/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
09/05/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
06/15/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/12/2007 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
n/a   
Page  6
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  7
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Xiaolan Wang 
09/17/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Trang Phuong Thi Nguyen 
09/13/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Hoa Thi Mong Pham 
09/16/2007 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jose Vicente Zevallos 
09/21/2007 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Rahul Raturi 
10/04/2007 
Comments:   
