                                        Documentof
                                    The WorldBank

                            FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                     ReportNo: 38861-VN




                          PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                           ONA

                                   PROPOSED CREDIT

                      INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 127.7MILLION
                          (US$200 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                         SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
                                           FORA

                          THIRDRURALFINANCE PROJECT

                                         April 28,2008




RuralDevelopment, Natural ResourcesandEnvironment Sector Unit
SustainableDevelopment Department
East Asia andPacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients in the
performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                     (ExchangeRateEffectiveNovember2007)


                        CurrencyUnit = VietnamDong
                          VND16,200 = US$1
                                  US$ = SDR1

                                 FISCALYEAR
                            January 1 - December31

                     ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
ATM     Automated Teller Machine
AAA      Analytical and Advisory Assistance
BIDV    Bank for Investmentand Development of Vietnam
CAR     Capital Adequacy Ratio
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CEP     Capital Aid Fundfor the Employment of the Poor
CFC     National Chloro-fluoro-carbons Trust Funds
CQS     Consultants Qualification Selection
DATC    DebtandAsset TradingCompany
DA      Designated Account
EL4     Environmental ImpactAssessment
ED      Environment Division
ERR     Economic Rate of Retum
FI      Financial Intermediary
FIL     FinancialIntermediary Loan
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
FM      Financial Management
FMM     Financial Management Manual
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GEF      Global Environment Facility
HCMC    Ho Chi MinhCity
I A S   InternationalAccounting System
ICB     InternationalCompetitive Bidding
IDA     InternationalDevelopment Association
IDP     InstitutionalDevelopmentPlan
IEG     IndependentEvaluation Group
IFC     InternationalFinance Corporation
IFRS    InternationalFinancialReporting Standard
JSBs    Joint Stock Banks
MLF     Micro Finance Loan Fund
OED     Operations EvaluationDepartment
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MSME    Micro and Small to MediumSized Enterprise
MSE     MediumSizedEnterprise
MFI     Microfinance Institution

         MOF          MinistryofFinance                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
         MONRE        MinistryofNaturalResourcesandEnvironment
         M P I        MinistryofPlanningandInvestment
         MPDF         Mekong Private Sector DevelopmentFacility
         NGO          Non-Government Organizations
         NPL          Non Performing Loan
         ODA          Official Development Assistance
         OP           OperationalPolicy
         PCF           People's Credit Funds
         PDO           Project Development Objective
         PER-FA        Public Expenditure Review-IntegratedFiduciary Assessment
         PFI           Participating Financial Institution
         PIM           Project Implementation Manual
         P M           Policy Manual
         PMO           Project Management Office
         Ph4SJ         Project Management Unit
         QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
         RFI           FirstRuralFinance Project
         RFII          Second RuralFinanceProject
         RFIII         ThirdRuralFinance Project
         RDF           RuralDevelopment Fund
         ROA           Returnon Assets
         ROE           RetumonEquity
          SBV          State Bank ofVietnam
          SEDP         Socio-Economic Development Plan
          SLA           Subsidiary Loan Agreement
          SOCB          State-Owned Commercial Bank
          SOE           State-Owned Enterprise
          SME           Small and MediumEnterprise
          SWOT          Strength, Weakness, Opportunity, Threat
          TA            Technical Assistance
          TA2           SecondPhaseo f a Comprehensive Technical Assistance
          TC3           Transaction Center I11
          VNIBOR        Viet NamInter-Bank Offered Rate
          USD           UnitedStatesDollar
          VAS           Vietnamese Accounting Standard
          VBARD         Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and RuralDevelopment
          VND           Vietnam Dong
          WAIR          WeightedAverage Interest Rate
          WB            World Bank
          WBO           Wholesale BankingOperation
          WHO           World Health Organization


                                       Vice President:      James Adams
                                     Country Director:      Ajay Chhibber
                                       Sector Director:     Christian Delvoie
                                      Sector Manager:       RahulRaturi
                                   Task Team Leader:        Xiaolan Wang



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           SOCIALIST REPUBLICOFVIETNAM
                             THIRD RURALFINANCEPROJECT


                                                     CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                               Page

A.    STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                               .............................................................  1
  1   Country and sector issues........................................................................................                          1
 2    Rationale for Bankinvolvement.............................................................................                                 3
 3    Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ........................................                                          4

B.    PROJECTDESCRIPTION                       .............................................................................................     5
  1   Lending instrument           .................................................................................................             5
 2    Project development objective andkey indicators..................................................                                          5
 3    Project components.................................................................................................                        6
 4    Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design................................................                                          8

 5    Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection..................................................                                        9

C.    IMPLEMENTATION                  ....................................................................................................      10
 1    Partnership arrangements.,              ....................................................................................              10

 2    Institutional and implementation arrangements                                 ....................................................        10

 3    Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes/results                                ....................................................        11

 4    Sustainability.........................................................................................................
            . . .                                                                                                                               11
 5    Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects                               ...................................................        13
 6.   Loadcredit conditions and covenants                         ...................................................................           14

D.    APPRAISAL SUMMARY                      .............................................................................................      15
 1    Economic and financial analyses                    ..........................................................................             15

 2    Technical...............................................................................................................                  16
 3    Fiduciary ...............................................................................................................                 16
 4    Social.....................................................................................................................               17
 5    Environment..      ........................................................................................................               18

 6    Safeguard policies.................................................................................................                       19

 7    Policy Exceptions andReadiness                     ..........................................................................             19

Annex 1: Country and Sector Background                      ..............................................................................      20

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank andor other Agencies                                                         ...................25
Annex 3: ResultsFramework andMonitoring                        ..........................................................................         26

Annex 4: DetailedProject Description             .......................................................................................         32

Annex 4.1: Alternative Project DesignOptions Considered                                 ....................................................     45

Annex 4.2: Appraisal of the APEX Bank                  ..................................................................................        48

Annex 4.3: Eligibility Criteriafor Participating FinancialInstitutions                                       .................................   55

Annex 4.4: Compliancewith Financial Intermediary LendingPolicies                                             .................................   60

Annex 5: Project Costs .................................................................................................................         63

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                    ..................................................................................        74

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                                 ......................................   75

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements                .......................................................................................         85

Annex 9: EconomicandFinancial Analysis                    ...............................................................................        91

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues           .............................................................................................         93

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                      .....................................................................        101

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                 .................................................................................         103

Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits                    .............................................................................        104

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................          107

Annex 15: Map IBRD35972         .....................................................................................................          109


                          SOLIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                           THIRD RURALFINANCEPROJECT

                           PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                EASTASIA AND PACIFIC

                                        EASRE

Date: April 28, 2008                         Team Leader: Xiaolan Wang
CountryDirector: Ajay Chhibber               Sectors: Micro- and Sh4E finance (100%)
SectorManagerDirector: RahulRaturi           Themes: Small andmediumenterprisesupport
/ChristianDelvoie                            (P);Other financial andprivatesector
                                             development(S)
ProjectID: P100916                           Environmentalscreeningcategory: Financial
                                             IntermediaryAssessment
LendingInstrument: Financial Intermediary
Loan

[ ]Loan    [XICredit   [ ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

ForLoandCredits/Others:
Total Bankfinancing: IDA Credit: SDR 127.7 million (US$200.0 million equivalent)
Proposedterms: StandardCredit with 10-yeargrace periodand40-year maturity




Borrower:
SocialistRepublicof Vietnam

Responsible Agency:
Bankfor InvestmentandDevelopmentof Vietnam(BIDV)
1lthFloor,Tower A, Vincom City Towers
191BaTrieu Street, Hanoi
Vietnam
Tel: 84 4 2200571   Fax: 84 4 2200569
sgd3@bidv.com.vn


                           Estimateddisbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY              09        10         11        12       13        14
Annual         20.00     40.00      40.00    40.00     40.00     20.00
Cumulative     20.00     60.00    100.00 140.00       180.00 200.00




Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref. PAD A.3                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                         [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                         [XlYes [ ] No

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                         [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The development objective of the proposed RFIIIwould be to increase economic benefits to
rural private enterprises and households by increasing their access to finance. The expected
outcomes would include: (i)   improved access to financial services for rural entrepreneurs; (ii)
increased capital investment made by the rural entrepreneurs as well as increased employment;
(iii)increased lending, particularly term lending to the rural private sector for capital investment
by all participating financial institutions (PFIs) on market-based terms.

Project description Ref. PAD B.3, TechnicalAnnex 4
Component I.Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises - the "Rural Development
Fund"(US$ 175millionIDA financing). This component is designed to addressthe term
financing constraints of financial institutions to provide funding to rural enterprises for longer-
term investment needs.

Component II.Increase Access to Microfinance inthe Rural Economy - the "Micro-finance
Loan Fund" (US$ 10million IDA financing). This component will provide a small line of credit
to demonstrate the commercial viability of lending to micro-enterprises and household
businesses.

Component III.Build Institutional Capacities and New Products (US$ 15 million IDA
financing.) The technical assistance (TA) component i s a core element to the success of the
RFIIIproject. This component is designed to help buildthe financial institutionsparticipatingin
the project and showing a credible strategy for expanding access to finance inrural areas of
Vietnam. The component i s also designed to help demonstrate that new commercially viable
markets can be found. These new markets can come inthe form of new customers, new products
and services, and new institutions participating inthe project.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
This Proiecthas a safeguards classification of FI(Financial Intermediarv). As with all FI


classifiedprojects, exact investments to be carried out under the Project cannot be identified a
priori, but are selected on a competitive basis duringthe course of project implementation. The
project triggers the Environmental Assessment andPest Management Safeguards. By design,
the project will not finance sub-projects that would trigger safeguard policies on i)natural
habitats; ii)involuntary resettlement; iii)forests; iv) cultural physical resources; vi) safety of
dams vii) projects indisputed areas; and viii) international waterways. Sub-projects that would
trigger these safeguards policies are includedinthe negative list of sub-projects that may not be
financed under the Project.

The safeguard policies triggered are: OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment); and OP 4.09
(Pest Management)

Significant, non-standard conditions, for:
Ref. PAD C.6

Credit effectiveness:

        The On-lending Loan Agreement has been executed between the Borrower and BIDV
        under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and it has been authorized or ratified.

        BIDV has adopted the Policy Manual, the Project Operational Manual and the
        implementation Guideline, all acceptable to IDA.

        BIDV has adopted the revised Environmental Guidelines, in a manner satisfactory for
        IDA.

        BIDV has strengthened a sub-unit within the PMU with sufficient and competent staff
        under terms of reference acceptable to the IDA to manage the Institutional Strengthening
        component.


Covenants applicable to project implementation:

(a)     The recipient shall ensure that the Project i s carried out in accordance with the provisions
        of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in
        Projects Financedby IBRD and IDA Credits and Grants, dated October 15,2006.

(b)     PMU at BIDV should be maintained at all times during project implementation with
        staffing functions, andresponsibilities acceptable to IDA.

[c)     An annual training program including budget and procurement plan for activities related
        to Institutional Strengthening Component should be furnished to IDA for review by
        December 31of the preceding calendar year.

:d)     Quarterly progress reports should be furnished to IDA no later than two months after the
        end of each quarter commencing from the first quarter with actual disbursement.


(e) A mid-term report on the implementation progress and proposed adjustment plan if there
     i s any should be furnished to IDA by June 30, 2011. The report should include results of
    the first impact evaluation.

(f) All sub-projects financed carried out in accordance to the Environmental Guidelines
    prepared for this Project.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1      COUNTRYAND SECTORISSUES

1.  Introduction. Vietnam's estimated annual development growth rate for 2006-2010
    i s estimated between 7.5% - 8%. Based on its latest growth and poverty reduction
    strategies, the Government o f Vietnam estimates that the total investment needs for
    the rural economy will be in the order o f VND300,OOO billion, or on average
    around US$4billion per annum, for this five year period. Inaddition, about 75% o f
    Vietnam's population i s still living in rural areas with agriculture as their main
    source o f livelihood. With continued growth, there is risk o f growing disparity
    between rural and urban areas. There are two main challenges facing the rural
    areas; first, target the issue o f lagging regions and the pockets of high poverty;
    second, diversification o f agriculture and also more broadly rural economic
    activities, and create more rural employment. The proposed Third Rural Finance
    Project (RFIII) tackles the second challenge. The continued support through the
    proposed Project would assist more private enterprises and individuals in the rural
    areas to invest in assets, expand their production capacity, create employment
    opportunities, generate rural economic growth, and hence contribute to narrowing
    the rural-urban income gap. Private enterprises, whose activities were negligible in
     1993, now account for over half of the investments made each year. In order to
    improve the quality o f the investments, the Government o f Vietnam intends to
    increasingly rely on private investments, which i s viewed as more efficient than
    state-led investments. Even ifthe share o f private investment inthe rural economy
    is kept at the same level as in recent years, contributing about 50% o f total
    investment on average, private investment inthe rural economy would have to be in
    the order o f about US$2 billion per annum. While the proposed RFIII Project
    would finance less than 1% o f the total expected credit demand, most o f which
    would be for medium- and long-term investment, it is expected to have a significant
    demonstration and catalytic effect through further strengthening bank and further
    solidifying the existing initial foundation for a sustainable rural finance system in
    Vietnam.

2.  Financial Sector Reform. The Government o f Vietnam's strategies for poverty
    reduction, financial sector development, and growth inrural areas all emphasize the
    importance o f greater access to finance services to facilitate economic growth. The
    financial sector reform process, which began in earnest around 2001,has produced
    some significant results. The State Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs), which
    make up over 70% o f the banking sector, have been under restructuring processes,
    policy lendinghas beenformally removed from the SOCBs into specialized entities,
    the regulatory framework for banking has moved towards international standards,
    the presence o f foreign financial institutions has increased competition inthe sector,
    the market infrastructure is rapidly developing with a robust payment system in
    place, and a capital market has been evolving with two trading centers.          This
    progress i s all the more remarkable considering that barely more than a decade ago
    Vietnam's financial sector was largely a "window" to channel government


                                             1


   resources to State OwnedEnterprises (SOEs) and there was no real bankingsystem
   in place. The private banking sector is also growing rapidly. For example, the
   equity in 22 private commercial banks participating in the Rural Finance I1project
   has increased almost ten fold between 2002 and2007.

3. Access to Finance. Vietnam has also made impressive gains in expanding access
   to finance for households, with an estimated 70-80% o f the poor with access to
   some form o f financial services both formal and informal. However, the quality o f
   services offered is weak, the market i s highly fragmented, and often the services do
   not meet the needs o f the customers. Access to finance for private, particularly
   small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), is very limited. In fact, the 2005
   (unpublished) World Bank Investment Climate Assessment found that access to
   finance is the number one constraint facing businesses inVietnam. The investment
   survey results shows that it i s the access to finance, rather than the cost o f finance,
   that concerns firms most. Inaddition, all SOEs, especially 100% state-owned, have
   much greater access to commercial and developmental financing sources than
   private firms, many o f which are smaller scale and located in rural areas. Private
   firms finance close to 75% o f their new investments from non-commercial sources,
   such as (non-market) equity investments, and family and friends, in addition to
   internal funds (retained earnings). This high dependence on non-market financial
   sources substantially limits the rate and degree to which private firms can grow in
   size and expand into new markets. Beyond these factors, if an enterprise does
   obtain bank financing, it i s usually relatively short-term and thus, not well suitedto
   medium- and long-term investments. A combination o f factors have led to this
   situation, including weak business plans, a lack o f audited accounts and credit
   history, insufficient collateral, etc. from the enterprises, and an aversion among
   financial institutions to smaller-scale, potentially more risky (compared to SOEs),
   less well-known companies

4. Barriers to Access. However, the primaryreason i s the lack o fmedium- and long-
   term funds available to banks, particularly medium- and long-term deposits, which
   they can use for on-lending as medium and long term loans.               Based on the
   information provided by State Bank o f Vietnam (SBV), only one-third o f the
   deposits raised in the banking sector in Vietnam are longer than 12 months. As
   such, short-term sources have been used to finance term-loan needs creating a
   maturitymismatch and potential liquidityproblems. Due to the increasingdemand
   for term-financing, SBV has issued a new decision to allow financial institutions
   increase the ratio o f using short-term fund to finance term-loan from maximum of
   25% to a maximum o f 40%. One other dimension o f the limitations in access to
   finance for firms is geographic. H o Chi MinhCity is the clear center o f gravity for
   banking activity, comprising 29% o f all loans and 34% o f all savings in Vietnam.
   Interestingly, Hanoi has an equally high rate o f savings, with 32% o f all funds
   mobilized coming from businesses and individuals inHanoi. The four major cities,
   HCMC, Hanoi, Danang, and Haiphong, receive 52% o f all credit by banks and 70%
   o f all savings are mobilized from these cities. Thus, a conclusion that can be drawn
   from this data is that the areas outside o f these four main urban centers (60
   provinces) may not have adequate access to financial services.


                                            2

5. Experience with Rural Finance. The Bank has a decade o f experience working to
   improve access to finance for rural enterprises inVietnam. There has been a steady
   improvement in the banking sector during that period, some of which can be
   attributed to a series o f two rural finance projects financed by the Bank. The first
   Rural Finance Project (RFI) closed in 2001 with an internal World Bank ex-post
   analysis rating of satisfactory, with recognitionthat the overall impact o f the project
   had been substantial. Seven banks were Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
   under this Project, having met the accreditation criteria set under the project. The
   RFII became effective in 2003 and is expected to close in 2008. Twenty four
   financial institutions have joined RFII, o f which 22 are private banks (JSBs). The
   line o f credit i s managed by an SOCB, the Bank for Investment and Development
   o f Vietnam (BIDV), which performs a wholesale banking function indisbursingthe
   funds to the PFIs. Under these two rural finance operations, the Bank has provided
   a total $310 million o f IDA resources for on-lending and capacity building
   purposes.

6. While the aggregate IDA rural finance credits represent less than 1% o f the total
   formal credit outstanding inthe domestic market today, these operations have had a
   far reaching impact on advancing the development of the rural finance system
   through the active engagement form the World Bank. The first internal and
   external ex-post and independent assessments o f these operations confirm that they
   have contributed to development o f the rural economy and improvement o f the
   living conditions in the rural areas.       This was achieved through encouraging
   investments of farm households and private rural entrepreneurs, by extending
   additional medium and long term financial resources; strengthening the banking
   system's capacity to better serve the rural economy; and increasing access of the
   rural poor to financial services.

2    RATIONALEFORBANKINVOLVEMENT

7. The Government o f Vietnam's strategies for poverty reduction, financial sector
   development, and growth in rural areas all emphasize the importance o f greater
   access to finance services to facilitate economic growth.           Vietnam's Socio-
   Economic Development Plan (SEDP) to 2010 emphasizes the importance o f greater
   accessibility to rural finance services for agricultural growth, non-farm employment
   generation andrural poverty reduction. Despite the impressive reform progress and
   increasing formalization o f the financial sector during last decade, Vietnam still
   lags in the efficiency and outreach o f financial services. Rural private enterprises
   face serious challenges in accessing financing of medium- and longer-term nature
   for investment purposes.      The World Bank is uniquely positioned to help the
   Government address these challenges through the Third Rural Finance Project. The
   Bank has intensively engaged with the Government on the broad agendas o f
   poverty reduction, rural development and diversification, and strengthening the
   financial sector. This i s being done through a variety o f modalities, fiom policy
   dialogue and analytical work to technical advisory assistance and lending
   operations. Interms o f the specific to the challenges for access to finance for rural
   enterprises, the Bank is assisting the three primary stakeholder groups: (i)   assisting

   the financial institutions through restructuring technical assistance, (ii) the
                                                                             helping
   government in financial sector policy reforms, and (iii) providing term financing to
   rural enterprises. The evaluated impact o f these assistance efforts has been very
   positive andthe Bank now has accumulated a long history o f experience, trust, and
   access to the key financial institutions active in the rural space and to the
   Government entities involved in setting relevant policies.        The RFI and RFII
   projects yielded a number o f lessons interms o f both the most effective operational
   and policy designs to meet the challenges in catalyzing term financing for rural
   enterprises. The RFIIIproject will build on these successes and on the operational
   experiences in Vietnam under the first and second Rural Finance projects.           In
   addition, the Bank i s leading the donor community globally in operational best
   practices in financial intermediary lendingto support rural enterprises and the RFIII
   will applyingthese practices underthe project inVietnam.

3    HIGHER    LEVEL OBJECTIVES TO WHICH THE PROJECT CONTRIBUTES

8. The Project supports Government's goal o f economic growth, employment creation
   opportunities, rural development acceleration through the financing o f rural micro
   and small private investments, and subsequent income generation improvement of a
   significant proportion o f the population by promoting broad-based, private sector-
   led growth inrural areas.

9. The Project is consistent with the World Bank Vietnam Country Assistance
   Strategy (CAS), and the overall World Bank PRSC program o f broader financial
   sector reform and improvement o f the rural sector. This operation, as well as the
   previous RF projects, has benefited by past financial sector operations, such as the
   Payment System and Bank Modernization Projects I& 11, which have provided
   support to the largest banks in Vietnam in developing their core information
   systems to international standards. The APEX bank andPFIs also benefited from a
   series o f comprehensive financial sector technical assistance programs to assist in
   their restructuringprocesses and assistanceprovided to the State Bank o f Vietnam-
   the bank supervisor - to improve the regulatory framework and its effectiveness.
   The sum o f this financial sector work has resulted in elevating the safety,
   soundness, and performance of the banks participating in the RFII project, as well
   as those that will potentially participate in the RFIII operation. At the same time,
   the proposed Project will contribute to the overall financial sector reform by
   providing technical assistance, training and supporting implementation o f the
   participating banks' institutional development plans. This Project i s well integrated
   into the Bank's overall rural development strategy.         For example, the Land
   Development Project supports improved property rights particular in rural areas,
   enabling farmers to use landas collateral as a basis for financial services which this
   Project supports.      The Agriculture Competitiveness Project encourages the
   introduction o f new technologies, marking arrangements and organization structures
   so that players can enter into more profitable value chains. This Project would be
   available to meet increased demand for financial services including reviewing
   business plans from various players inthe value chains.



                                          4

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1      LENDING   INSTRUMENT

10. The proposed lending instrument i s a Financial Intermediary Loan (FIL). The IDA
    credit will be made to the Socialist Republic o f Vietnam for on-lending to BIDV,
    which is acting as the wholesale institution (APEX Bank) o f the project. BIDV will
    be responsible to accredit the interested participating financial institutions (PFIs)
    and micro-finance institutions (MFIs) based on the agreed accreditation criteria.
    BIDV will then on-lend IDA credit to the accredited PFIsMFIs inaccordance with
    subsidiary loan agreements signed between BIDV and these PFIsMFIs indicating
    the obligations o f each party and the on-lending terms. The on-lending term will be
    formula-based which is acceptable to the IDA and all stakeholders participating in
    this Project. In turn, the PFIs/MFIs will make loans with market rates to end-
    borrowers for sub-projects that meet the eligibility criteria.

2      PROJECT DEVELOPMENTOBJECTIVEAND KEY INDICATORS

11. The development objective o f the proposed RFIII would be to increase economic
    benefits to rural private enterprises and households by increasing their access to
    finance. The expected outcomes would include: (i)        improved access to financial
    services for rural entrepreneurs; (ii) increased capital investment made by the rural
    entrepreneurs as well as increased employment; (iii)    increased lending, particularly
    term lending to the rural private sector for capital investment by all participating
    financial institutions (PFIs) on market-based terms.

12. Key Performance Indicators

13. The following are selected outcome and output indicators for the Project.             A
    detailed list i s presented inAnnex 3,

Outcome Indicators:

              Increased amount o f capital investments made by the rural entrepreneurs
              (a proxy for increased direct economic returns as a result o f the project);
           0  Incremental increase in employment (a proxy for social and secondary
              economic returns o f the project);

Output Indicators:

           0  Volume o fterm loans (a proxy for access to credit resources)
              Numbero fborrowers (a measure o fthe effectiveness o ftargeting SMEs)
              Compliance of BIDV and PFIs with minimum accreditation criteria or
              time bound institution development plans (IDPs) agreed with IDA.
           0  Number o f new microfinanceborrowers, particularly women.
           0  Number o f training courses for bankers.
           0  Preparation o f training courses for SMEs.


                                             5

3     PROJECTCOMPONENTS

14. The following three primarycomponents are envisaged for the RFIIIproject:


      a       Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises - the "Rural
              Development Fund"(US$ 175 million IDA financing)
      *       Increase Access to Microfinance in the Rural Economy - the "Micro-
              finance Loan Fund" (US$ 10 millionIDA financing)

      a       Build Institutional Capacities and New Products (US$ 15 million IDA
              financing)

15. Component I: Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises - Rural
    DevelopmentFund(US$175 millionIDA financing). This component, the Rural
    Development Fund (RDF), is designed to address the term financing constraints o f
    financial institutions to provide funding to rural enterprises for longer-term
    investment needs. The goal i s to enable rural private entrepreneurs to access
    medium- to long-term financing for capital investments, such as equipment andnew
    technologies, which will enable opportunities for efficiency gains and business
    expansion. The Vietnamese economy and the banking sector have developed
    rapidly since the RFI and RFII projects were prepared. As a result, medium and
    large scale enterprises have increased access to financial services. Since IDA funds
    are scarce and they shouldbe usedfor development and poverty reductionpurposes,
    thus the funds should be used in those segments o f the market where there is a
    financing gap and inthose segments o f the market that have the greatest potential to
    reduce poverty. Under the current economic conditions inVietnam, it is the micro
    and small enterprise segment o f the market that does not have sufficient access to
    medium- and long-term funds. Providing medium- and long-term funds to this
    enterprise segment o f the market would also result in the largest development
    impact. The line o f credit operation would mirror the ones under the ongoing RFII
    interms ofthe processingterms, as ithasbeenfound that the credit fromthe APEX
    bank (BIDV) to the PFIs, and from the PFIs to the end borrowers, is currently in
    line with market rates and i s not causing any market distortions. The PFIs will have
    to meet specific accreditation criteria to participate in the project.              These
    accreditation criteria are structured to reflect the core areas o f a financial institution
    -managementandcorporate governance, assetquality, capitaladequacy, liquidity,
    profitability, and efficiency - and are primarily aimed at setting a basic standard o f
    financial health and soundness for eligible PFIs and encouraging other financial
    institutions to reach these standards. (see Annex 4.3 for details).        If a financial
    institution does not meet all the accreditation criteria, it can still participate in the
    line o f credit and select elements o f the technical assistance component o f the
    RFIIIproject if it agrees to a time-bound Institutional Development Plan (IDP), to
    reach the performance benchmarks. The IDA Credit will finance up to 70% o f each
    sub-project cost, and the rest 30% will be financed by the PFIs and the contribution



                                             6

 from each end-borrower. The following eligibility criteria will be applied to sub-
 loans andprojects financed underthe RDFby the PFIs:


   Sub-projects to be financed shouldbe physicallylocated outside the four big cities
   inVietnam, includingHanoi, H o ChiMinhCity, Danang, andHaiphong.
   Sub-loans should be for capital investments in productive assets and associated
   working capitalneeds.
   Sub-loans should be targeted at micro and small enterprises with less than 50
   employees.
   For Sub-loans larger than $80,000 will be subject to BIDV's prior review. Sub-
   loan largerthan $80,000 per sub-project could be approved providedthat it can be
   demonstrated that they are located outside Tier I1cities (reference indicated inthe
   Policy Manual) and inrural areas and will have a large incremental impact on the
   rural economy interms o f employment creation.
   Sub-projects financed will be subject to environmental compliance requirements
   based on the Environment Guideline developed for this Project and the funding
   will be aimed at sustainable investments that do not produce negative
   environmentalimpacts.

 Component 11: Increase Access to Microfinance in the Rural Economy -
 Micro-financeLoan Fund (US$ 10 million IDA Financing). This component,
 the Micro-finance Loan Fund (MLF), will provide a small line o f credit to
 demonstrate the commercial viability o f lending to micro-enterprises and household
 businesses. These may be defined as formal andinformal businesses employing 2-3
 employees outside o f their immediate families. The MLF will also be aimed at
 encouraging the participating o f financial institutions, as well as eligible non-bank
 PFIs such as rural People's Credit Funds (small rural financial cooperatives) and
 licensed microfinance institutions, to develop more robust microfinance services in
 rural areas. These institutions will be subject to accreditation criteria (see Annex
 4.3). Ifa financial institution does not meet all the accreditation criteria, it can still
 participate in the line o f credit and select elements o f the technical assistance
 component o f the WIII project if it agrees to a time-bound Institutional
 Development Plan (IDP), to reach the performance benchmarks. The IDA Credit
 will finance up to 70% o f each sub-project cost, and the rest 30% will be financed
 by the PFIs and the contribution from each end-borrower. Eligibility criteria for
 sub-loans under this component are as follows:

a  As with the RDF, sub-projects financed under the MLF should be physically
   located outside the four big cities inVietnam including Hanoi, H o Chi MinhCity,
   Danangand Haiphong.

   Sub-loans are for short-term financing, as well as medium- to long-term financing
   where demanded, would be available only for new customers (household or
   micro-enterprises).


                                         7

       Sub-loan size would be limited to a maximum o f $500.

   0   Sub-projects financed will be subject to environmental compliance requirements
       based on the Environment Guideline developed for this Project and the funding
       will be aimed at sustainable investments that do not produce negative
       environmental impacts.

17. Component 111: Build Institutional Capacities and New Products (US$ 15
    millionIDA financing). The institutionalbuildingcomponent is a core element to
    the success o f the RFIII project. This component is designed to help strengthening
    the financial institutions participating in the project and demonstrating a credible
    strategy for expanding access to finance inrural areas o f Vietnam. The component
    i s also designed to help demonstrate that new markets can be found and that these
    can be commercially viable. These new markets can come in the form o f new
    customers, new products and services, and new institutions participating in the
    project. This component will be supported bytwo sources o f funding. The first i s a
    $5 million IDA credit that will be transformed into a grant from the Government
    budget for activities considered to be public goods, such as new banking product
    development, strengthening the People's Credit Funds, and supporting micro- and
    small- to medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). The second source o f funding i s a
    $10 million IDA credit will be on-lent to the PFIs at IDA terms to cover PFIs to
    improve credit processes for rural lending, strengthenPFIs that do not yet meet the
    accreditation criteria, enhancing the largest rural lendinginstitution, and supporting
    the APEX Bank (BIDV). It is envisaged that the entire TA facility will be managed
    by the Project Management Unit o f the APEX Bank for efficiency o f
    administration. The specific elements that will be funded under this component are
    detailed inAnnex 4.

4      LESSONS   LEARNEDAND REFLECTEDINTHE PROJECTDESIGN

18. There i s a substantial body o f knowledge that has been accumulated by the Bank on
    line-of-credit operations.     A recently completed report by the Independent
    Evaluation Group (IEG) "World Bank Lending for Lines o f Credit", provided some
    key lessons relevant for this project which are; i)a stable macroeconomic
    environment i s a necessary condition for a successful line o f credit operation; ii)the
    requirements o f the World Bank policy on financial intermediary loans (OP 8.30)
    should be met, which includes, clear accreditation criteria for participating banks,
    backed up by institutional development plans for those banks that do not meet all
    the criteria, and established procedures for environmental safeguards; iii)a
    conservative estimate o f the disbursement rates for the line o f credit based on an
    assessment o f the demand for credit under the prevailing interest rate regime; and
    iv) non-distortionary interest rates shouldbe usedwith any subsidy documented and
    justified. This loan incorporates all o f these recommendations. The regional Line
    o f Credit coordinator concluded that this proposed Project complies with the
    requirements o f OP 8.30 and highlighted the success o f the collaborative cross-
    sectoral team in preparing the project to meet both the rural and financial sector


                                            8

    objectives in the design. Annex 4.4 provides a detailed compliance comparison
    with the OP8.30 policies.

19. This project would be the third in a series o f rural credit operations. Four main
    lessons were learned from these earlier operations. First, the combination o f a line-
    of-credit facility, technical assistance, minimum accreditation criteria and
    institutional development plans has proved more effective ininducing change inthe
    banking sector than focusing the project on any one o f these factors alone. This
    design has provided the basis for an open dialog with participating banks,
    suggesting improvements in their operations, raising the importance o f better
    environmental screening, and funding for implementation. This project retains this
    core design from earlier projects but, since it i s the third project in the series, has
    enhancements such as add fimding for developing and testing new products.
    Second, based on the monitoring and evaluation results for these two projects, small
    andmediumsize enterprises have had a greater incremental impact onjob creation
    that other segments o f the market, as a result the project would tighten the targeting
    o f loans to focus on the SME sector. Third, the first and second projects have
    successively reduced their dependence on VBARD as the only vehicle to obtain
    coverage in remote areas. Under the first loan 75 % o f the loan was disbursed
    through VBARD, under the second project the disbursement share i s currently at
    less than 50 %. Assuming VBARD meets the minimum criteria as a participating
    financial institution, it i s thought that the total share i s expected to reduce further
    under the third project as private banks grow and gain market share. However,
    VBARD is still the only operator inmanyremote locations, andthus, it is expected
    that the third project will rely on VBARD to provide broad geographic coverage
    provided it can meet the minimum accreditation criteria or make positive progress
    with an acceptable institutional development plan. Finally, the second project has
    made an important contribution to improving the operation o f PFIs, however, the
    institutional reform objectives set by the project were too high. The third project
    should set more realistic institutional objectives given that the Project is not
    designed to be a financial sector reform project but focusing on increasing access to
    finance.

5     ALTERNATIVESCONSIDEREDAND REASONSFORREJECTION

20. Alternative Project Design Options: Four options for onlending arrangements
    were considered in the design, including: (a) Status Quo - a Wholesale Banking
    Operation (WBO) to be carried out by a pre-selected APEX Bank, the Bank for
   Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV), that would bear the full credit
   risk; (b) Modified Status Quo - a Wholesale Banking Operation (WBO) to be
    carried out by a pre-selected Agent Bank, BIDV, that would only administer the
    line o f credit without taking the credit risk; (c) Semi-Competitive - several pre-
    determined participating financial institutions (PFIs) would be selected based on the
    accreditation criteria to receive a line o f credit for on-lending to their respective
   clients; (d) Competitive - bidding out the WBO to the market to select an APEX
   bank for the line o f credit. Option (a), Status Quo, was selected over option (b)
   because it was considered to provide a better incentive structure for PFI


                                              9

    accreditation and sub-loan collection and make use o f a well established project
    management unit at BIDV. Both the Semi-competitive and competitive models
    were rejected because there were not enough private commercial banks in the
    system with the capacity or the interest to play a wholesale financing role. More
    details o f the specific risks and advantages o f each o f these options are discussed in
    Annex 4.1,

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1     PARTNERSHIPARRANGEMENTS

21. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) was consulted closely on the design o f
    the RFIII project and the intention i s to partner with the IFC's advisory institution,
    the Mekong Private Sector Development Facility (MPDF), to deliver specific
    elements o f the training activities proposed under this project. Related to this
    project, the IFC i s committed to providing two $50 million lines o f credit in
    Vietnam, through two joint stock banks partially owned by the IFC (Asia
    Commercial Bank and Saigon Thuong tin Commercial Bank), to support housing
    finance.

2     INSTITUTIONALAND IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

22. The IDA credit o f US$ 200 million would be made to the Socialist Republic of
    Vietnam for on-lending and grant to BIDV. Out o f this credit, the Ministry o f
    Finance will then on-lend the funds to BIDV based on an on-lending agreement for
    US$ 195 million, including the Rural Development Fund and Micro-finance Loan
    Fund, and capacity building for the financial institutions. BIDV would assume
    overall responsibility for project implementation. BIDV will on-lend the proceeds
    to eligible PFIs based on the terms and conditions o f Subsidiary Loan Agreements
    (SLAs) signed between BIDV and PFIs. The PFI, will inturn, extend sub-loans to
    eligible borrowers.      In accordance with the draft MOF circular on Financial
    Management applicable to Official Development Assistance projects and programs
    to support the implementation o f Decree no. 131/2006/ND-CP, dated 9 November
    2006, by the Government on ODA Management, BIDV will be responsible for
    expenditure verification (kiem soat chi) for both credit activities and non-credit
    components under the on-lending agreement.

23. The remaining US$5 million (under Component 111: Build Institutional Capacity
    and New Product Development) will be allocated to the SBV in the form as grant
    from state budget. In accordance with the Official Letter no. 4072BKH-KTDN
    dated 12 June 2007 from MPIto the Prime Minister, SBV will be responsible to the
    Prime Minister for the management and efficient and effective usage o f this US$ 5
    million grant for the intended purposes, in compliance with current governmental
    regulations, and ensuring no overlap with other funding sources for training
    activities of the banking sector. In accordance with the draft MOF circular on
    Financial Management applicable to Official Development Assistance projects and
    programs to support the implementation o f Decree no. 131/2006/ND-CP on ODA



                                            10

    Management, the State Treasury or an ornanization desiwated bv the MOF will be
    responsible for expenditure verification for this grant from state budget.

24. BIDV has already established a Project Management Unit under the Second Rural
    Finance Project, which i s part o f the BIDV's core transaction center. This PMUhas
    equipped with committed and capable staff and they are the champion in achieving
    the Project development objectives and ensure the compliance the IDA'Ssafeguard
    policies. It i s decided this same PMU will be the PMU managing the proposed
    Project with one Division which will manage the Institutional Strengthening sub-
    component o f this new Project.           The PMU has several units including:
    Accreditation Division, in charge o f financial analysis o f the interested financial
    institutions; Appraisal Division, in charge o f eligibility o f sub-projects financed;
    Environment Division, in charge o f compliance o f the IDA'S safeguard policy;
    Finance and Accounting Division, in charge o f funds flow and bookkeeping; and
    the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Division, responsible for institutional
    strengtheningcomponent andproject reportingand evaluation activities.

3     MONITORINGEVALUATIONOFOUTCOMEShESULTS
                     AND

25. BIDV has set up a system to maintain all data on project inputs and outputs to
    monitor and evaluate progress made with project implementation.            Functional
    divisions o f the PMU will collect and analyze PFIs financial statements, audit
    reports, uses o f sub-loans and information related to the end-borrowers combined
    with field trip observations. The Project Monitoring and Evaluation Division will
    be responsible for consolidation o f all information and will provide quarterly
    progress report to IDA and the decision makers.

26. Each PFI will be required to keep all the information based on clearly identified
    performance indicators, and they will provide data on project outcomes and results
    on a regular basis in an agreed format. This will include quarterly progress reports
    coveringboth sub-loan information on MSEs as well as specific technical assistance
    andtraining to each PFI. BIDV will beresponsible for overseeing andcoordinating
    this process.

4     SUSTAINABILITY

27. This project and the other projects in this series o f line-of-credit operations is
    designed as an interim intervention in commercial loan markets for rural areas
   during a period when the bankingsystem is inthe process o f reform. During this
   period o freform, a lack o f confidence inthe bankingsystem results ina shortage of
   deposits which inturn results ina shortage o f funds available for on-lending. Inthe
   first project there was a shortage o f liquidity across all deposit terms. Over time
   short term liquidity has increased, but there is still a shortage o f liquidity in the
   medium and long term deposit market which inturn results ina shortage o f medium
   or long term loans or a highrisk o f term mismatch inthe banks. The provision o f a
   medium and long term lines o f credit to PFIs under the proposed loan offers them
   an opportunity to overcome this market failure until such time as confidence inthe



                                            11

bank system increases. The project will encourage the development o fmediumand
long term deposit instrumentsthrough Component 111. It i s also expected to reduce
the length o f the transition process by providing f h d s for training, information
system upgrades for PFIs, and new product development. At the end o f this series
o f line of credit projects, there would be enough reliable and efficient commercial
banks with experience in lending to rural areas, and generating enough medium
term deposits to ensure sufficient medium and long term lending to rural areas on a
sustainable commercial basis.        Also, the project will continue to integrate
environmental considerations into small credit activities and encourage the financial
sector to adopt the same approach beyond the rural finance project, without causing
a high cost to the commercial banks. Thus, the project also has an environmental
sustainability element to and should help to facilitate more "green" investments into
the future.




                                       12

5        CRITICAL     RISKS   AND POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS'




                                                                                           I
                                                                                             Rating
          Risks               -
                              Rating
                              before                   RiskMitigationMeasures                 With
                              Mitipation                                                    Mitigation

To Project                                ~~~




Development Objective
Macro     economic       or         M          Macroeconomic and banking system                 M
banking            system                      conditions will be monitored. Moderate
instability.                                   levels o f instability will be absorbed
                                               through interest rate adjustments which
                                               PFIs are free to make. Ifthere are major
                                               shocks, the appropriate actions would
                                               needto be evaluated
Number o fjobs created               S         The project i s designed to focus on             M
by subprojects is                              medium and long term investments micro
insignificant                                  and small enterprises which have been
                                               demonstratedto have highemployment
                                               generation rates. Employment rates will

To Component Results
Low demand for                       S         Dialogue with the government and build           M
mediumor long term                             partnership with the donor community
credit from PFIs due to
government or donor
funded subsidized
interest rates.
Inadequate number o f               M          Accreditation criteria set at project start      M
accredited PFIs                                take into account the level o f
                                               development o f the banking system. An
                                               acceptable IDP would allow banks to
                                               participate even ifthe entire set o f
                            I                  accreditation criteria i s not met. There
                                               are at least 22 PFIsthat would be eligible.
                                               Efforts would be made to enhance PFIs'           M
hstitutional                                   appreciation for institutional
Strengthening activities                       strengthening activities; new products
                                               development will be made relevant;
                                               discuss with MOF to standardize and
                                               streamline the approving procedure
3verall risk rating                 S                                                           M




'The fiduciary risks are not critical. For detailed analysis please see Annexes 7 & 8.


                                                       13

6      LOAN/CREDIT    CONDITIONSAND COVENANTS



EffectivenessConditionsare:

28.  The On-lending Loan Agreement has been executed between the Borrower and
     BIDV under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and it hasbeen authorizedor
     ratified.

29.  BIDV has adopted the Policy Manual, the Project Operational Manual and the
     ImplementationGuidelines, all acceptable to IDA.

30. BIDV has adopted the revised Environmental Guidelines, in a manner satisfactory
     for IDA.

31. BIDV has strengthened a sub-unit within the P M U with sufficient and competent
     staff under terms o f reference acceptable to the IDA to manage the Institutional
     Strengthening component.

ImplementationCovenantsare:

32. The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
     provisions o f the Anti-Corruption Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud
     and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD and IDA Credits and Grants, dated
     October 15,2006.


33. P M U at BIDV should be maintained at all times duringproject implementationwith
     staffing functions, andresponsibilities acceptable to IDA.


34. An annual training program including budget and procurement plan for activities
     related to Institutional Strengthening Component should be furnished to IDA for
     review byDecember 31o f the preceding calendar year.


35.  Quarterly progress reports should be furnished to IDA no later than two months
     after the end o f each quarter commencing from the first quarter with actual
     disbursement,


36. A mid-term report on the implementationprogress andproposed adjustment plan if
    there i s any should be furnished to IDA by June 30, 2011. The report should
    include results o fthe first impact evaluation.


37. All sub-projects financedcarried out inaccordance to the Environmental Guidelines
    prepared for this Project.


                                            14

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1      ECONOMIC FINANCIAL ANALYSES
                   AND

38. Because this i s a credit project, with no advanced determination o f the precise
    investments to be made, it is only possible to estimate the project's economic
    impact in a very general way. There are a number o f key factors that indicate that
    the project would be likelyto have a sound economic impact.

39. Contributionto Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction. While progress on
    reducing poverty has been impressive inVietnam, rural poor are still vulnerable to
    both internal and external shocks.        The project would primarily focus the
    accumulation o f productive assets inrural areas and on the creation o f employment
    opportunities. This will be achieved primarilythrough financing medium and long
    term credit to micro, small and mediumenterprises (MSMEs).           MSMEs have been
    shown in RF1 and RFIIto generate high levels o f employment per dollar o f funds
    invested. The project will also finance individual households, which would use the
    resources to enhance their productivity and incomes.

40. Contributionto the LongTermInvestmentNeedof Vietnam. Vietnam is going
    through a period o f rapid growth with targeting investment levels at 30% o f GDP
    for the economy. The Project will contribute to the effective provision o f these
    resources and inparticular term resources, which at present are not easily mobilized
    inthe bankingsystem.

41.Applicable Rates of Return. Uses o f Project funds will be demand-driven, there
    i s no ex ante estimate o f the economic or financial rate o f return for individual sub-
   project or for the project as a whole. However, the eligibility criteria for sub-
   project financing would be set so that project with an expected Economic Rates o f
   Return(ERR) o f less that 15% would not be financed. Therefore the ERR for the
   whole project should be in excess o f 15%. For sub-projects with sub-loans greater
   that US$ 200,000 an ex-ante economic analysis will be required and a minimum
   ERRo f 15 %will be required. For sub-projects with sub-loans betweenUS$15,000
   and US$200,000 an ex-ante financial rate o f return will be calculated, and a
   minimum 15% Financial Rate of Return (FRR) will be required.                      Market
   interventions in Vietnam have largely been dismantled and the policy induced
   divergence between economic and financial values for commercial loans is not
   presently substantive. Because the shadow wage rate is below the financial wage
   rate in rural areas for most o f the year, it i s likely that ERRSwill be higher than
   FRR. Thus, for smaller projects, the use o f a minimumFRR o f 15 % will largely
   eliminate any projects with an ERR o f less than 15%.           Inaddition, projects that
   result in significant negative environmental externalities would be automatically
   ineligible as a result o fthe implementationo f environmental safeguards.




                                           15

2     TECHNICAL

42. There are no major technical issues in this Project. BIDV, the PFIs and the end-
   borrowers would all be operating in areas core to their business and technology i s
    known. A network o f private suppliers is well developed and it is expected that
   MSEs and farmer households will purchase well know brands o f equipment through
    well established dealerships. The new product develop activities will bringthe best
    international practices to Vietnam by taking into consideration the progress made
    bythe financial institutions duringcourse o fproject implementation.

3     FIDUCIARY

43. This Project will be a follow on operation from the on-going RFII Project. The
    financial management (FM) arrangements of RFII are operating satisfactorily and
    there are adequate financial internal controls and systems operating together with
    timely reporting and auditing. The RFIII's financial management arrangements will
    be based on the RFII's FM arrangements with some required improvements to
    overcome weaknesses identified in RFII. For RFIII, the FM risk i s assessed as
    moderate. The moderate inherent risk relates to the financial environment
    weaknesses and the nature o f the project which involves a large number o f
    PFIs/MFIs's sub-branches at provincial, districts, and commune level participating
    intheproject with lack of integrated financial information system; and a significant
    amount o f training, study tours, seminars and workshop expenditure. The project
    control risk is assessed as moderate primarily due to: (i)      weak or insufficient
    internal audit function especially at PFIs/MFIs for project activities which result in
    weaknesses in sub-loan initiation and monitoring procedures; (ii) o f errors and
                                                                        risk
    mistakes arising from the manual consolidation process o f quarterly financial
    reports for PFIs/MFIs' branches and sub-branches; (iii)inefficient expenditure
    verification procedures by State Treasury which may result indelay indisbursement
    for the USDS million grant component.

44. To mitigate the risks, PFIsNFIs are encouraged to consider integrating project
    financial report format into their current accounting system. More trainings and
    capacity building on internal audit objectives, functions, procedures, and best
    practices should be organized. The Accounting Division o f BIDV- Transaction
    Center I11(TCIII) should actively participate insupervisions to PFIsMFIs. Inorder
    to avoid possible serious delays experienced in many projects due to cumbersome
    approval procedures, MOF, SBV and BIDV would meet together to work out an
    efficient mechanismto effectively use the fund for its intendedpurposes.

45. Proiect Procurement.     An assessment o f the capacity o f the Project Implementing
    Unit (PMU) ofthe wholesale bank was conducted. Discussions were heldwith the
   project management and procurement staff. An action planhas also been discussed
    and agreed.      The project hnds would be mainly used for on-lending to
    intermediary financial institutions. The project procurement i s rather modest
    consisting o f several small value contracts for shopping o f vehicles and office
    equipment for the PMUand a number o f consulting services including seven QCBS


                                           16

    packages and the remaining are CQS packages. The P M U o f the wholesale bank
    will manage the procurement process o f institutional strengtheningcomponent for
    all the PFIs. The wholesale bank has involved in implementation o f the second
    Rural Finance Projects and has gained adequate knowledge and experience to
    implement theproject procurements which are basically similar to those under the
    previous projects. However, giventhe potential larger value andcomplex nature of
    the foreseen consulting services couple with a potential shortage o f staff, the PMU
    o f the wholesale bank will undertake a number o f actions to increase their
    procurement capacities required for a successful implementation o f the project
    procurement. Since the Project is a financial intermediary loan where the credit will
    be passed on to the intermediary institutions to be on-lent to rural private end-
    borrowers, an assessment o f the procurement practices normally used by these end-
    borrowers were also conducted. The typical end-borrowers mostly include private
    households who borrow small loans ranging from several hundreds to several
    thousands US dollar equivalent for procurement o f wide range ofproducts required
    for their family business such as seeds, fertilizers, hand tools, animals, boats, etc.
    These products are readily available inthe local market at competitive prices. It i s
    also expected that there might be some larger sub-loans ($100,000 to $150,000) on-
    lent to small private enterprises to procure small trucks, machine tools or
    constructionmachines such as excavators and concrete mixers. The most commonly
    used procurement practice is similar to shopping which is appropriate and
    acceptable.

4      SOCIAL

46. No negative social implications are envisaged.

47. This is a demand driven project and as such is "a bottom up" operation, based on
    financing needs from the end-borrowers.

48. The Project would contribute directly to the improvement of the social-economic
    state o f about 50,000 rural households and small business. The Project is expected
    to create more employment opportunities and better access to financial services to
    the ruralpopulation. Basedon an IndependentProject Impact Assessment report on
    Second Rural Finance Project, it indicates 30 % o f the end-borrowers accessed to
    formal financial services first time and 60 % had opened a savings account with the
    formal financial institutions for the first time.

49. The World Bank's OED's Beneficiary Assessment and survey confirmed that
    women benefited equitably from the first Rural Finance Project. This impact is
    further strengthened during the implementation o f Second Rural Finance Project,
    where all PFIs were required to keep records and report information on women
    borrowers. This i s the first operation in Vietnam that the banking sector obtained
    gender disaggregated data for project monitoring and evaluation.

50. The project will not finance any land purchase transactions.         The resettlement
    safeguard is therefore not triggered. The indigenous people safeguard policy is also



                                             17

   not triggered.     This Project is market-based demand-driven line o f credit, the
    indigenous people are free to apply for loans on equal basis with other population
    groups.     However, in Vietnam the government has various subsidized credit
   programs for indigenous people, including through the Vietnam Bank for Social
   Policies, andtherefore the uptake o f this RFIII loan facility by indigenous people i s
    expected to be low.

5     ENVIRONMENT

51. This Project has a safeguards classificationo f FI(Financial Intermediary). As with
    all FI classified projects, exact investments to be carried out under the Project
    cannot be identified a priori, but are selected on a competitive basis during the
    course o f project implementation.        The project triggers the Environmental
    Assessment and Pest Management Safeguards. By design, the project will not
    finance sub-projects that would trigger safeguard policies on i)natural habitats; ii)
    involuntary resettlement; iii)forests; iv) cultural physical resources; vi) safety of
    dams vii) projects indisputedareas; and viii) internationalwaterways. Sub-projects
    that would trigger these safeguards policies are included inthe negative list o f sub-
    projects that may not be financed under the Project. Appraisal o f the Projects
    compliance with IDA's environmental and pest management safeguard policies i s
    discussed below and inmore detail inAnnex 10.

52. The environment assessment required for the purpose o f appraising the RFIII
    project i s based on an independent review o f the implementation o f environmental
    compliance under RFII, the ongoing rural finance project inVietnam. Based on an
    analysis o f the types o f projects financed under RFII, the MI11i s considered to
    pose a low level risk. An independent environment audit on RFIIhas been carried
    out inMay 2007 and the final report confirms the low level risk and positive efforts
    made by the participating banks and the end-borrowers. The lessons learned have
    beenincorporated into the draft environmentalguidelines for RFIII.

53. Since this i s a follow-on operation to the Rural Finance I1project, using the same
    implementation agency, TC3, an environmental procedure has already been
    prepared entitled "Guidelines o f Environment Impact Assessment and Monitoring
    for Subprojects Financed RFII." This guideline includes procedures for appraisal,
    evaluation and monitoring environment           and pest management safeguard
    compliance by the proposed sub-projects.          These environmental compliance
   procedures are reviewed at least once a year in the course o f IDA's supervision
    cycle.   The same arrangement including environmental audit schedule will be
    applied out under the RF I11Project, at mid-term and the end o f the project. The
   project management unit inTC3 already has an established environment unit staffed
   with specialists for the purpose of monitoring environmental compliance under
   RFII. It has one full time environmental specialist on staff. This unit would be
   responsible for environmental compliance under RFIII. There i s also sufficient
   environmental consultant capacity in Vietnam to carry out independent
   environmental audits o f sub-projects.       In addition, under RFIII Project, the
   Government will allocate fimd to carry out specific trainings catering to


                                           18

       environment compliance activities and prepare and distribute environment
       compliance pamphletto all the end-borrowers.

54.    The Second Rural Finance Project i s recognized as a first ever banking sector
       project in Vietnam that integrates the environmental considerations into the small-
       scale credit lending activities.            Now it is acknowledged by all the PFIs that
       environmental compliance by sub-projects financed is an important consideration
       duringthe loan appraisal process. There is strong interest from MPI, MONRE and
       SBV to disseminate good practices o f RFII which integrates environmental
       considerations into small-scale credit activities and encourage the financial sector to
       adopt the same approach beyond the rural finance project, without generating a high
       cost for commercial banks.

6         SAFEGUARD POLICIES

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                  Yes                    N o
  Environmental Assessment (OPBP 4.01)                                           [XI                   [I
  Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                   [I                   [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                      [XI                   [I
  Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                       [I                   [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                            [I                   [XI
  IndigenousPeoples (OPBP 4.10)                                                  [I                   [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                           [I                   [XI
  Safety o fDams (OPBP 4.37)                                                     [I                   [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OPBP 7.60)*                                         [I                   1x3
  Projects on International Waterways (OPBP 7.50)                                [I                   [XI


7        POLICY EXCEPTIONS READINESS AND

55.    The Project complies with all applicable World Bank policies. There is no policy
       exception identified.

56.    This is a follow-up Project which will be managed by the same APEX Bank. The
       institutional arrangements for project implementation are already in place. The
       Policy Manual, the Project Operational Manual have been prepared and will be
       adopted by Project effectiveness.               The Project meets the Regional criteria for
       readiness for implementation.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties'
claims on the disputedareas


                                                       19

                        Annex 1:Country andSector Background

                              Vietnam: Third RuralFinance

1.      Macroeconomic Background.             Vietnam is one o f the best-performing
developing economies inthe world interms o f macroeconomic growth and stability. It is
going through a far-reaching transformation from an inward-looking plannedeconomy to
one that i s globalized and market-based. Vietnam has been on a sustained path o f
economic reform since the launching o f its D o i M o i (renovation) process, in 1986. The
overall principle guiding the reform process has been the increased reliance on market
mechanisms, as well as international integration, while maintaining a socialist
orientation. The latter can be interpreted as focusing on social inclusionwhile preserving
a leading role for the state. Beyond this general principle, the process has involved a
systematic piloting o f reforms, followed by some form o f evaluation, an effort to forge
consensus among relevant stakeholders, and finally the scaling up o f reportedly
successful initiatives. Comprehensive economic reforms have led to rapid economic
growth andremarkable progress on development outcomes. Vietnam has been among the
fastest-growing economies in the world for almost two decades and the country acceded
to the World Trade Organization in January 2007, which was a major milestone in
Vietnam's integration into the global economy. GDP per capita has increased at roughly
6.9% per year inreal terms. Real income has grown 7.3% per year over the last 10 years.
When the World Bank reengaged with Vietnam in 1993, income per capita was US$170.
Today it is US$620. Despite this rapid growth, inequality has remained relatively stable.
The Gini index increased from 0.34 in 1993, the year o f the first representative household
expenditure survey, to 0.37 in 2004. Based on a consumption basket o f food and non-
food items sustaining an intake o f 2,100 calories per person per day, the poverty
headcount declined from 58 percent in 1993 to less than 20 percent in2004. Other social
indicators, including child maternity, have shown equally remarkable improvements and
Vietnam appears able to reach most o f the MillenniumDevelopment Goals. Emerging
from massive poverty less than two decades ago, the vision now i s to attain middle-
income status by 2010. Ifcurrent growth trends were to continue, GDP per capita could
cross the US$lOOObenchmark inthree years time.

2.      FinancialSector Reform Process. The Government o f Vietnam's strategies for
poverty reduction, financial sector development, and growth inrural areas all emphasize
the importance o f greater access to finance services to facilitate economic growth. The
financial sector reform process, which beganin earnest around 2001, has produced some
significant results. The State Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs), which make up over
70% o f the banking sector, have been under restructuring processes, policy lending has
been formally removed from the SOCBs into specialized entities, the regulatory
framework for banking has moved towards international standards, the presence o f
foreign financial institutions has increased competition in the sector, the market
infrastructure i s rapidly developing with a robust payment system inplace, and a capital
market has been evolving with two trading centers.         This progress is all the more
remarkable considering that barely more than a decade ago Vietnam's financial sector




                                             20

was simply a "window" to channel resources to State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and
there was no real bankingsystem inplace.

3.      ReformResults. These reform improvements have beenreflected inthe rapidly
rising level of formal financial intermediation and efficiency o f finance. The banking
system inVietnam has moved from a structure with only the Government was involved,
to a system with five SOCBs, 36 joint stock banks(JSBs), 30 foreign banks, 919 People's
Credit Funds (PCFs), and a variety o f informal microfinance providers. Confidence in
the bankingsystem has grown rapidly as evidenced by the rapid growth in deposits from
24% o f GDP in 2000 to close to 70% in 2006. In addition, credit to the economy has
grown at a similarly rapid pace, also averaging a growth rate o f close to 30% per annum
since 2000, reaching 67% o f GDP by 2006. Research also indicated that in 1992,73% o f
rural credit was provided by the informal sector-in          2002, that figure had dropped to
11%. Finally, the bankingpayment system, based on international standards, has vastly
improved payment services by reducing float (from up to 30 days in 1995 to less than 24
hours today), accelerating circulation o f funds and increasing efficiency o f funds
transmission. Inaddition, the payment systemhas facilitated over 20% growth in formal
remittances to Vietnam, reaching over $4 billionin2005. There are now more than 1,100
Automated Teller Machines (ATMs), 2.1 million cards (Le., credit, debit, etc.), and 17
banks offering credit cards. More recently, the stock market has shown phenomenal
growth. During 2006, the number o f companies listed has increased by nearly fivefold2
while the market capitalization increasingby more than tenfold to surpass 22% o f GDP,
already well surpassing the Government's original target o f 15% by 2010. The largest
enterprises, including the SOCBs, have yet to list shares on the markets. The insurance
sector also has registered healthy growth, accounting now for 2% o f GDP in 2005, up
from 0.4% in 1993.

4.      Future Reform Challenges. Despite the impressive progress in Vietnam,
important weaknesses remain in the financial sector, including a still rudimentary
approach to monetary policy, relatively poor quality o f banking credit, insufficient
surveillance o f the stock market, and still limited access to formal finance for private
businesses. These weaknesses may lead to financial instability if Vietnam is confronted
with an unexpected slowdown. While the probability o f this happening in the coming
years i s low, financial crises are among the most devastating blows an economy can
experience, which justifies devoting special attention to the regulation o f this sector.
Even assuming the absence of major turbulence, Vietnam needs to expand access to
financial services to more citizens and the rapidly emerging business sector. Aware o f
these challenges, the Government has launched both a roadmap for the reform o f the
banking sector and a strategy for the development o f capital markets. Combined with the
international commitments made to accede to the WTO, full implementation o f the
roadmap and the strategy shouldleadto a larger and more efficient financial sector.

5.      LimitedAccess to Financefor Enterprises. Vietnamhas also made impressive
gains in expanding access to finance for households, with an estimated 70-80% of the
'192including 106at H o Chi MinhCity Securities Trading Center (STC) and 86 at the Hanoi STC as of
January 16,2007.


                                                21

poor with access to some form o f financial services. However, the quality o f services
offered i s weak, the market is highly fragmented, and often the services do not meet the
needs o f the customers. However, access to finance for private, particularly small and
medium sized enterprises (SMEs), i s very limited. Infact, the 2005 (unpublished) World
Bank Investment Climate Assessment found that access to finance is the number one
constraint facing businesses in Vietnam. The investment survey results shows that it i s
the access to finance, rather than the cost o f finance, that concerns firms most. In
addition, all SOEs, especially 100% state-owned, have much greater access to
commercial and developmental financing sources than private firms, many o f which are
smaller scale and located inrural areas. Private firms finance close to 75% o f their new
investments from non-commercial sources, such as (non-market) equity investments, and
family and friends, in addition to internal funds (retained earnings).           This high
dependence on non-market financial sources substantially limits the rate and degree to
which private firms can grow insize and expand into new markets. Beyond these factors,
ifanenterprise does obtainbankfinancing, itisusuallyrelatively short-term andthus, not
well suited to medium- and long-term investments. A combination o f factors have led to
this situation, including weak business plans, a lack of audited accounts and credit
history, insufficient collateral, etc. from the enterprises, and an aversion among financial
institutions to smaller-scale, potentially more risky (compared to SOEs), less well-known
companies.

6.      However, the primary reason is the lack o f medium- and long-term funds
available to banks, particularly medium- and long-term deposits, which they can use for
on-lending as mediumand long term loans. Based on the information provided by State
Bank o f Vietnam (SBV), only one-third o f the deposits raised in the banking sector in
Vietnam are longer than 12 months. As such, short-term sources have been used to
finance term-loan needs creating a maturity mismatch and potential liquidity problems.
Due to the increasing demand for term-financing, SBV has issued a new decision to
allow financial institutions increase the ratio o f using short-term fund to finance term-
loan from maximum o f 25% to a maximum o f 40%.                One other dimension o f the
limitations in access to finance for firms i s geographic. H o Chi Minh City i s the clear
center o f gravity for bankingactivity, comprising 29% o f all loans and 34% o f all savings
in Vietnam. Interestingly, Hanoi has an equally high rate of savings, with 32% of all
funds mobilized coming frombusinesses andindividuals inHanoi. The four major cities,
HCMC, Hanoi, Danang, and Haiphong, receive 52% o f all credit bybanks and 70% o f all
savings are mobilized from these cities. Thus, a conclusion that can be drawn from this
data i s that the areas outside o f these four main urban centers (60 provinces) may not
have adequate access to financial services.

7.      Expanding Rural Finance through Rural Finance Projects. The Bank has a
decade o f experience working to improve access to finance for rural enterprises in
Vietnam. There has been a steady improvement inthe bankingsector duringthat period,
some o f which can be attributed to a series o f two rural finance projects financed by the
Bank. The first RuralFinance Project (RF I) in2001 with aninternal World Bank
                                                closed
ex-post analysis rating o f satisfactory, with recognition that the overall impact o f the
project hadbeen substantial. Seven bankswere Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)



                                              22

under this Project, having met the accreditation criteria set under the project. The RFII
became effective in 2003 and i s expected to close in 2008.                       Twenty four financial
institutions havejoined RFII, o f which 22 are private banks (JSBs). The line o f credit i s
managed by an SOCB, the Bank for Investment and Development o f Vietnam (BIDV),
which performs a wholesale banking fimction indisbursing the finds to the PFIs. Under
these two rural finance operations, the Bank has provided a total $310 million o f IDA
resources for on-lending andcapacity buildingpurposes.

                            Box 1. Summary Statistics: Second RuralFinance Project

      As of August 2007, US222millionequivalent hadbeendisbursedfrom IDA.All sub-loans are made based
      on commercial terms.
      The project has two distinct lines o fcredit, the Rural Development Fund, which has disbursed$192 million,
      and the Micro-LoanFund, which has disbursed $24 million.
      The average size o f the projects under the Rural Development Fund (RDF) was $3,500, with the RDF
      providing on average $2,047 (54%), the PFIs providing 34% andthe borrowers contributing 12% to the
      investment.
          o    The proportion o f medium-to long-term financing under the RDFwas 78%, which is much almost
               twice the average share o f term-loans made by the banking systeminVietnam.
          o    O f all sub-loans, 44% fmance activities inMekong River Delta which i s most active economic
               development region, and about 37% o f the end-borrowers are female.
          o Close to halfofthe finds are going towards direct investment inthe agricultural sector (46%).
      The averagesize o fthe sub-loans to households underthe Micro-Loan Fund (MLF) was $545 andthe MLF
      providing $316, and to micro-enterprises at $1,038 with the MLFproviding $600.
          o All the sub-loans under the MLFwere short-term, inaccordancewith the objectives.
          o More than 30% ofthe sub-loans went to end-borrowers livinginpoor northernmountainous areas.
          o About 45% ofthe end-borrowers are female.
      Therehave beenabout 300,000 sub-projects spreadacross 60 provincesthroughout the country, except the
      four largest cities (HCMC, Hanoi, Danang, Haiphong).
      Incrementaljob creation has beenreported to be as high as 160,000.
      The collection rate from Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) to the APEX bank, BIDV,is loo%, and
      the averagepast due loans from end-borrowers to the PFIs is about 0.3%.
      About 30% o f clients under the project are first time borrowers who were able to establish their credit
      history for subsequentaccess to loans.
      About 60% o fthe clients have opened savings accounts for the first time.




8.      BuildingSustainableInstitutionsfor RuralFinance. While the aggregate rural
finance credits represent less than 1% o f the total formal credit outstanding in the
domestic bankingmarket today, these operations have had a lasting impact on advancing
the development o f the rural finance system. The first internal and external ex-post and
independent assessments o f these operations confirm that they have contributed to


                                                      23

development o f the rural economy and improvement o f the living conditions in the rural
areas.   This was achieved through encouraging investments o f farm households and
private rural entrepreneurs, by extending additional medium and long term financial
resources, strengthening the banking system's capacity to better serve the rural economy,
andincreasing access ofthe rural poor to financial services. Inaddition, the series o fRF
projects has encouraged increased banking competition in the rural areas, with the
number o fPFIs growing from seven in2000 to 24 by 2007. Such increased competition
pushes greater outreach and efficiency among the competitors andresults in better quality
products andservices for rural enterprises (andhouseholds).

9.       However, for rural finance to expand on a sustainable path, the institutions must
also be strong and the series o f rural finance projects has contributed to the banking
sector development in Vietnam. One way this i s achieved i s through the accreditation
process and capacity building support for the PFIs. The accreditation process sets out
minimumstandards for the PFIs to meet. Ifthe PFIs do not meet all o f the accreditation
criteria, they must have Institutional Development Plans (IDPs) put into place. These
IDPs provide performance benchmarks that the PFIs commit to meet in order to
participate in the RFII project and the PFIs meet these targets through utilizing RFII
funding, as well as their own funding, to undertake internal restructuring andoperational
enhancements. As a result, PFIs are improving both their financial performance and
overall transparency.   Finally, the APEX bank for the operation, BIDV, has shown
improvement since it became the APEX bank for RFII three years ago through the
engagement in the project and the efforts BIDV has made to meet its IDP targets.
BIDV's financial performance has shown improvements over the course o f the RF
projects and the bank is making strides to improve its financial health based on
recommendations made by the World Bank and outside experts. Ultimately, this will
enable BIDV to provide wholesale banking services to a wide range o f banks inVietnam
that need additional liquidity to expand their operations into rural locations and to serve
rural customers. Annex 4.2 contains an in-depth appraisal o f BIDV.




                                            24

     Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies

                              Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject

 1.        Portfolio Size and Composition. The Vietnam portfolio consisted of 36 active
 operations (including stand alone GEF and CFC) with net commitments o f about US$ 3.6
 billion by the end o f January 2007. The portfolio size has slightly declined from
 December 2006 as three projects exited the portfolio in December 2006 (Agriculture
 Diversification Project, Rural Energy Project and PRSC V). Amongst the sector units,
 Rural Development (23%), Energy(22%) and UrbanDevelopment (21%) are the largest.
 These units account for two third of our total commitments.

 2.        Delivery of Investment Projects.         The Coastal Cities Environment and
 Sanitation Project (US$125 million) was approved by the Board on December 19, 2006.
 Inaddition, negotiations for the Vietnam Avian and HumanInfluenza Control Project
 (US$20 million) and Program 135 - Phase I1were completed in February and these two
 projects are scheduled for Board approval in February 2007 and March respectively.
 Negotiations for the Mekong Transport InfrastructureDevelopment Project are scheduled
 for March 12,2007.

 FY07LendingDeliveries                               ProjectName              Deliveryto Client


                                                      Skllls for Growth &              30-May-07
                                                     Tertiary Education

                                                06    Health Financing &               30-May-07
 Higher Education II              58      08-May-    Strategy Work
                                                07
 Mekong Transport Infra.         207     05-Apr-07
                                                     Country Gender                    25-Oct-06
 Hanoi Urban Transport            132    28-Jun-07   Assessment
                               I
 Program 135 Phase II
               -              I   50   II20-Mar-07    Environment Monitor              04-May-07
                                                     CY06
 PRSCVI                          200     21-Jun-07
~                                                    Country Environment                16-Jun-07
                                                     Analysis
 Avian & Human Influenza          20        na       Water ResourcesSector             31-May-07
                                                      Review
  HlFU Development                50     28-Jun-07   Land Policy Stocktaking           15-Jun-07
  Mekong Transport Supp           20     21-Jun-07    Expressway Investment            01-Jun-07
 Tax Administration (stand-by)    80     26-Jun-07   Strategy
                                                      Medium Cities                    23-Feb-07
 Total                           862                 Transportation

 Total (incl. stand-by)          942                 InvestmentClimate                 03-Jan-07
                                                     Assessment
                                                     VDR 2007                            22-01-07




                                                 25

                         Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring

                                  Vietnam: RuralFinanceProject

                                            ResultsFramework


              PDO                        ProjectOutcomeIndicators                Use ofProjectOutcome
                                                                                        Information
The Project Development                i)Cumulativeinvestmentsmade          This willbe measuredex post in
Objective would be to increase         by rural entrepreneurs as a result   order to evaluate the impact o f
economic benefits to rural private     o f the project (proxy for increased the project on investment and
enterprises and households by          direct economic returns as a result  employment creation, as a proxy
increasing access to finance.          ofthe p r ~ j e c t ) . ~            for economic growth as a result
                                                                            o f this project.
                                       ii)Incrementalincreasein
                                       employment as a result o f sub-
                                       project investments (proxy for
                                       social and secondary economic

    IntermediateOutcomes                                                      Use ofIntermediateOutcome
                                                                                         Monitoring
Component 1. Rural                     i)Volumeofmediumorlong               These would be reported inthe
Development Fund. Improved             term loans (a proxy for access to    Project progress report, mid-term
access to mediumterm credit for        credit resources)                    review report submits both to the
rural entrepreneurs and                                                     shareholders including key
individuals.                           ii)Numberofborrowers(a               government agencies and the
                                       measure o f the effectiveness o f    World Bank, inorder to monitor
                                       targeting SMEs)                      the effectiveness o f the line o f
                                                                            credit inreaching the target
                                       iii)Collectionrates(measuring        beneficiaries.
                                       the effectiveness o f financial      i)volumewillindicatewhether
                                       intermediation)                      the line o f credit is appropriately
                                                                            priced relative to the market in
                                                                            order to be useful to target
                                                                            beneficiaries. ii)Number of
                                                                            borrowers will determine whether
                                                                            banks are effectively targeting the
                                                                            SMEborrowers which have been
                                                                            identified as an under served
                                                                            segment o f the credit market.
                                                                            The number o f borrowers is
                                                                            estimated basedon an average
                                                                            expected loan size o f US$5000.
                                                                            iii)Collectionrateswillbeused
                                                                            to monitor the effectiveness o f
                                                                            financial intermediation.



  Total investment i s equal to total subproject costs including sub-loan amounts and equity contributions
bybeneficiaries
4  Incremental employment is the difference between with and without project level o f employment inthe
fumor household.


                                                           26

Component 2. .Microfinance Loan     i)No.ofnewcustomers                 This will contribute to the impact
Fund. Enhance rural poor access     borrowing from PFIs and MFIs        assessment and project evaluation
to the financial services through                                       report to be reported to the key
micro finance find                  ii)Shareofwomenborrowers            government agencies including
                                                                        M P I and MOF.
Component 3. Bank Capacity          APEX Bank (BIDV)                    BIDVscompliance with its
BuildingandNew Products                                                 institutional development plan
Development. Strengthened           i)Compliancewithaccreditation       willbe monitoredannually.
capacity o f financial institutions criteria or with a time bound IDP
to provide better financial         agreed with IDA.                    For eachPFI, compliance will be
services to the rural areas.                                            measured o n a four point scale
                                    ii)ComplianceofPFIswith             Unsatisfatory, Marginally
                                    accreditation criteria or with time Unsatisfactory, Marginally
                                    bound IDPs.                         Satisfactory or Satisfactory. A
                                                                        PFIwill receive a satisfactory
                                    iiiTrainingprovidedtobankers        rating if it meets all accreditation
                                    (person days)                       criteria or the conditions o f its
                                                                        IDP. The project will receive a
                                    iv)Training curriculum and          satisfactory rating if all PFIs
                                    material developed for SMEs,        receive a satisfactoryrating or
                                                                        have not had a less than
                                                                        satisfactory rating for more than a
                                                                        year. This would allow PFIs time
                                                                        to correct any non compliance
                                                                        withthe IDP or be excluded from
                                                                        the program. The project rating
                                                                        o f marginally satisfactory,
                                                                        marginally unsatisfactory, and
                                                                        unsatisfactory will be used to
                                                                        reflect varying degrees to which
                                                                        this condition i s not met.



Arrangementsfor resultsmonitoring

1.       InstitutionalArrangements The implementingagency for the project, BIDV has
already has a well established Project Management Unit (PMU) set up for the RFI and
RFIIprojects. The PMUis an integral part o f the BIDV's core transaction center. This
PMU is equipped with committed and capable staff and they are the champion in
achieving the Project development objectives and ensure the compliance the IDA'S
safeguard policies. The PMU has several units one o f which i s the Project Monitoring
andEvaluation Divisionresponsible project reporting and evaluationactivities.

2.       Data Collection PFIs will be required to submit quarterly reports to BIDV on
their compliance with accreditation criteria and their respective sub-projects. This data
will be aggregated by BIDV. The process for collecting this data is well established. In
addition, outside consulting companies will be hired to carry out environmental audits of
the project.

3.       CapacityThe PMUis committed andhas capable staff with experience inproject
monitoring and IDA'Ssafeguard policies. Inaddition, experience with RFIIproject has


                                                    27

shown that there are a number of consulting companies or research institutions which are
capable of carrying out environmental audits.




                                          28

   *
   i;:
   a




   s53      w"
           53   I



 0
 N
 P          0

I          2


                        9  -  8m




                              0
 00
 m         0
           m     l      v
                        0      ?4N
-1
            00
           N             z1



 0         c
 W         c     I       0
                         N




 0         0              0    0


         Y       I
                      Y




                  -
                  fL
                   c
                  .C
                  5


                  eteE
                   0




                  c

                   E
                  c
                  c

+
     0
     M

E
N

                          Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription

                          Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject

1.       Project Objective. The development objective o f the proposed RFIII would be
to increase economic benefits to rural private enterprises and households by increasing
their access to finance. The expected outcomes would include: (i)        improved access to
financial services for rural entrepreneurs; (ii) increased capital investment made by the
rural entrepreneurs as well as increased employment; (iii)   increased lending, particularly
term lendingto the rural private sector for capital investmentby all participating financial
institutions (PFIs) on market-based terms.

2.       Project Rationale. The Government o f Vietnam's strategies for poverty
reduction, financial sector development, and growth in rural areas all emphasize the
importance o f greater access to finance services to facilitate economic growth.
Vietnam's Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) to 2010 emphasizes the
importance o f greater accessibility to rural finance services for agricultural growth, non-
farm employment generation andrural poverty reduction. Despitethe impressive reform
progress and increasing formalization o f the financial sector during last decade, Vietnam
still lags in the efficiency and outreach o f financial services. Rural private enterprises
face serious challenges in accessing financing o f medium- and longer-term nature for
investment purposes.       The 2005 (unpublished) World Bank Investment Climate
Assessment found that access to finance i s the number one constraint facing businesses in
Vietnam.

3.       The private firms finance almost 75 percent o f their new investments from non-
commercial sources, such as internal funds (retained earnings), (non-market) equity
investments, and family and friends. This highdependence on non-commercial financial
sources substantially limits the rate and degree to which private firms can grow in size
and expand into new markets. Beyond these factors, if an enterprise does obtain bank
financing, it is usually relatively short-term and thus, not well suited to medium- and
long-term investments.     It is thought that a combination o f factors have led to this
situation, including weak business plans, a lack o f audited accounts, insufficient
collateral, etc. from the enterprises, and an aversion to smaller-scale, more risky
(compared to SOEs), less well-known companies. However, the primary reason is the
lack o f medium- and long-term funds available to banks, particularly medium- and long-
term deposits, which they can transform into medium- and long-term loans. Based on the
information provided by the SBV, only one-third o f the deposits raised in the banking
sector in Vietnam are longer than 12 months. As such, short-term sources have been
used to finance term-loan needs creating a maturity mismatch for the banks and limiting
the ability of the banksto meet the demands by enterprises for such funding. The project
therefore intends to provide term financing to micro and small enterprises for investment
inproductive assets through the Rural Development Fund (RDF) to be financed by the
IDAcredit.

4.      Despite the general availability o f short-term liquidity in the banking system, the
rural poor and rural households and micro-enterprises in some regions still do not have


                                             32

access to financial services due to absence o f viable micro finance institutions. Based on
a recent Micro Finance Study managedby the Financial Sector o f the World Bank, there
are still exists great demand for improved quality and targeting o f the micro finance
services (both credit and savings), especially in more remote areas that are more costly
for the formal banks to reach. The project will provide a small amount o f fundingunder
the Micro-finance Loan Fund (MLF) to demonstrate the profitability of microfinance
lending, as well as to encourage the participation of banks as participating financial
institutions.

5.       Lending Instrument and On-lending Arrangement. The proposed lending
instrument i s a Financial Intermediary Loan (FIL). The Government has proposed that
the Bank for Investment and Development o f Vietnam (BIDV) be the APEX bank and
the institution responsible for the implementation o f this project and on-lending to the
accredited participating financial institutions (PFIs). BIDV has performed well as the
APEX bank under RFII and is interested in implementing the RFIII project. IDA has
agreed to the Government's proposal based on the continued improvement in BIDV's
financial performance, the audited IAS accounts for 2006, and progress on its strategic
plans, including its business strategy, equitization and Non-Performing Loan resolution
plans (an appraisal o f BIDV i s contained inAnnex 4.2). The Bank will continue to work
with BIDV duringthe project implementation andmonitor BIDV's financial performance
closely. Alternative options were considered and are described inAnnex 4.1.

6.       Participating Financial Institutions.        The accreditation criteria for the
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) under the Rural Finance I11 (RFIII) project
have been developed based onpast experience under the previous Rural Finance projects,
as well as best practices in World Bank line o f credit operations worldwide. The criteria
set out standard financial performance benchmarks for PFIs to meet in order to
participate in the project. These benchmarks are structured to reflect the core areas o f a
financial institution - management and corporate governance, asset quality, capital
adequacy, liquidity, profitability, and efficiency - and are primarily aimed at setting a
basic standard of financial health and soundness for eligible PFIs and encouraging other
financial institutions to reach these standards. Secondarily, the criteria are designed to
protect the on-lending bank from the potential credit risks o f the PFIs and to enable the
on-lending bank to better determine the appropriate level o f the size o f the line o f credit.
Finally, the criteria are designed to provide a standardized, comparable monitoring tool to
measure the progress made by the PFIs. It i s envisaged that for the Micro-finance Loan
Fund, the PFIs participating in the RDF will be eligible to participate in the MLF. In
addition, non-bank PFIs will also be eligible for andparticipate inthe MLFline o f credit.
The non-bank PFIs that would qualify to participate inthe MLF would include primarily
some select number o fthe best performing o fthe 955 People's Credit Funds (PCFs). The
criteria for these non-bank PFIs under the MLFwill be similar to those for PFIs, but with
some key differences. The full details on the accreditation criteria are attached inAnnex
4.3.

7.       On-LendingInterestRates. Interms ofthe interest rates charged throughout the
line o f credit, from the Ministry o f Finance to BIDV, and from BIDV to the PFIs, it has



                                             33

been determined that the calculation used by Second Rural Finance Project will be a
reasonable basis for the RFIIIproject (see Box 1 below for further details). The RFIII
will continue to use the formula-based approach to setting the pass-on rate and the fixed
margincharged by the APEX bank, BIDV, to the PFIs o f at least 2% as this is the best
approach at the current time due to the limitations o f the inter-bank market. Inter-bank
interest rates are reported daily as VNIBOR o f (on the Reuters information system), with
twelve banks contributing, which i s supposed to represent the benchmark rate for short-
term financing (overnight to 6 months) for banks. However, the market i s highly
segmented with different rates paid by the different types o f institutions and depending
on whether or not the transaction i s collateralized. Consequently, inter-bank deals
actually negotiated one at a time inan over-the-counter manner between individual banks
andthe VNIBOR rate is indicative only and not utilized as a benchmark by banks inthe
market. The proposed interest rate calculation will be re-assessed within one year o f
implementation o f the project to determine if a more suitable, market-based on-lending
interest rate can be applied instead. For instance, if in the future the inter-bank market
matures sufficiently to provide for a standardized and reliable benchmark interest rate or
a more streamlined calculation methodology can be developed, then the pass-on rate will
be adjusted accordingly.            The on-lending rates from PFIs to end-borrowers would
continue to be market based and at the full discretion o fthe PFIsto determine.

         Box 1. On-LendingInterest Rate Calculation under the SecondRuralFinance Project

The Socialist Republic o f Vietnam would be the Borrower o f IDA Credit. The proceeds o f the Credit would
be made available to BIDV under an On-lending Loan Agreement (OA), satisfactory to IDA, to be entered
between MOF and BIDV. Under this OA, which would be built into the Rural Development Fund(RDF)
and Micro-enterprise Development Fund(MDF) policy manuals, would be lent to BIDV for a period o f 25
years with a grace period o f 8 years on the principal. The interest rate charged by MOF to BIDV would be
such as to give BIDV a 2% spread to cover its operating costs, risks, and a slight margin. This should be
adequate to make the project attractive to BIDV and to encourage it to promote the flow o f resources into
the lines o f credit. Finance for the RDF and the MDF credit lines would be made available to the
Participating FinancialInstitutions under subsidiary loan agreements (SLAs) between them and BIDV.

The on-lending rates from BIDV to the PFIs, under these SLAs, would be adjustable periodically based
upon criteria that reflect market interest rates. BIDV would manage the two funds and would bear the credit
risk at the level o f the PFIs. Funds would be on-lent to PFIs in local currency, in line with their clients
needs. They would bear a variable rate o f interest adjusted monthly and intended to be equal to the adjusted
cost o f commonly available deposits. This rate would be calculated by the SBV based o n the Weighted
Average Interest Rate (WAIR) for 3, 6 and 12 months deposits inthe banking system inVietnam from a
sample o f 24 banks, adjusted for the reserve requirement imposed by the SBV. The on-lending rate would
largely reflect the market deposit rates on a quarterly basis. The PFIs would be free to set their interest
rates to the end-borrowers to fully reflect market forces, and their associated costs, risks, and profit
requirements.

The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk against a 'fee' - the difference between the on-
lending rate to BIDV and the cost o f IDA funds. This is because: (i)   the small sub-borrowers would not be
inapositionto bear the foreign exchange risk, andtherefore, BIDVwouldnotbeable to pass onthis risk to
the PFIs; and (ii)  the US$ o f IDA proceeds would actually remain with the Government who in return
would provide BIDV with the equivalent local currency for on-lending to the PFIs.

8.       Project Components. The following three primary components are envisaged
for the RFIIIproject:


                                                     34

         a       Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises - the "Rural
                Development Fund" (US$ 175 million IDA financing)

         e       Increase Access to Microfinance in the Rural Economy - the "Micro-
                 finance LoanFund" (US$ 10 million IDA financing)

         a      Build Institutional Capacities and New Products (US$ 15 million IDA
                 financing)

9.       Component I: Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises - Rural
Development Fund (US$ 175 million IDA Financing). This component, the Rural
Development Fund (RDF), i s designed to addresses the term financing constraints o f
financial institutions to provide funding to rural enterprises for longer-term investment
needs. The goal i s to enable rural private entrepreneurs to access medium- to long-term
financing for capital investments, such as equipment and new technologies, which will
enable opportunities for efficiency gains and business expansion. The Vietnamese
economy and the banking sector have developed rapidly since the RFI and RFIIprojects
were prepared. As a result, medium and large scale enterprises have increased access to
financial services. Since IDA funds are scarce and should be used for development and
poverty reduction purposes, the funds should be used at those segments o f the market
where there is a financing gap. Inparticular, finds should be used at those segments o f
the market the have the greatest potential to reduce poverty. Under the current economic
conditions in Vietnam, it i s the micro and small enterprise segment o f the market that
does not have sufficient access to medium- and long-term funds. Providing medium- and
long-term funds to this enterprise segment o f the market would also result in the largest
development impact. The line o f credit operation would mirror the RFII interms o f the
processing, terms, as it has been found that the credit from the APEX bank to the PFIs,
and from the PFIsto the endborrowers, is inline with marketrates andis not causing any
market distortions. The PFIswill have to meet specific accreditation criteria to participate
inthe project (see Annex 4.3 for details). Ifa financial institution does not meet all the
accreditation criteria, it can still participate inthe line of credit and select elements o f the
technical assistance component o f the RFIII project if it agrees to a time-bound
Institutional Development Plan (IDP), to reach the performance benchmarks. The IDA
Credit will finance up to 70% o f each sub-project cost, and the rest 30% will be financed
by the PFIs and the contribution from each end-borrower. The following eligibility
criteria will be applied to sub-loans and projects financed under the RDF:

e       Sub-projects to be financed should bephysically locatedoutside the four big cities
        inVietnam, includingHanoi, Ho ChiMinhCity, Danang,andHaiphong.

e       Sub-loans should be for capital investments in productive assets and associated
        working capital loans.

a       Sub-loans should be targeted at micro and small enterprises with less than 50
        employees.

e       For Sub-loans larger than $80,000 will be subject to wholesale bank's prior
        review. Sub-loan larger than $80,000 per sub-project could be approved provided


                                                35

        that it can be demonstrated that they are located outside Grade I1towns and in
        rural areas andwill have a large incremental impact on the rural economy interms
        o f employment creation.

a       Sub-projects financed will be subject to environmental compliance requirements
        based on the Environment Guideline developed for this Project and the funding
        will be aimed at sustainable investments that do not produce negative
        environmentalimpacts.

 10.    Component 11: Increase Access to Microfinance in the Rural Economy -
Micro-finance Loan Fund (US$ 10 million IDA financing). This component, the
Micro-finance Loan Fund (MLF), will provide a small line o f credit to demonstrate the
commercial viability o f lending to micro-enterprises and household businesses. These
may be defined as formal and informal businesses employing 2-3 employees outside o f
their immediate families. The MLFwill be aimed at also encouraging the participating o f
financial institutions, as well as eligible non-bank PFIs such as rural People's Credit
Funds (small rural financial cooperatives) and licensed microfinance institutions, to
develop more robust microfinance services inrural areas. The institutions will be subject
to accreditation criteria (see Annex 4.3). If a financial institution does not meet all the
accreditation criteria, it can still participate inthe line o f credit and select elements o f the
technical assistance component o f the RFIII project if it agrees to a time-bound
Institutional Development Plan (IDP), to reach the performance benchmarks. The IDA
Credit will finance up to 70% o f each sub-project cost, and the rest 30% will be financed
bythe PFIs andthe contribution from each end-borrower. The participation ofthe PFIs is
subject to the availability o f funds. It i s expected that sub-loans for short-term financing,
as well as medium- to long-term financing where demanded, would be available only for
new customers (household or micro-enterprises).          These sub-loans would be limited to
$500. As with the RDF, sub-projects financed under the MLF should be physically
located outside the four big cities in Vietnam including Hanoi, H o Chi Minh City,
Danang and Haiphong and the sub-projects will be subject to environmental compliance
requirements and the MLF funding will be aimed at sustainable investments that do not
produce negative environmental impacts.

 11.    Component 111: Build Institutional Capacities and New Markets (US$ 15
million). This institutional building component is a core element to the success o f the
RFIII project. This component is designed to help build the financial institutions
participating in the project and demonstrating a credible strategy for expanding access to
finance inrural areas o f Vietnam. The component i s also designed to help demonstrate
that new market can be found and are financially viable. These new markets can come in
the form o f new customers, new products and services, and new institutions participating
inthe project. The component will be supported by two sources of funding - (i) $5          a
million IDA loan that has been transformed into a grant from the Government budget,
and (ii)$10 million IDA loan that is passed on to the PFIs at IDA credit terms.
         a                                                                                  It is
envisaged that the entire TA facility will be managed by the Project Management Unit o f
the APEX bank, BIDV, for efficiency o f administration. The specific elements that will
be finded under this component are follows with the approximate estimates for the
resources associated with each component:


                                                36

SubcomponentA.           Meeting Emerging Demand for Rural Financial Services -
GrantBasedAssistance (US$5 million)

 12.     A. 1. Supporting SMEs - SME Association (US$ 0.94 million): In order to
prepare the SMEs to access to financial services and overcome the constraints they are
facing, this sub-component will focus on supporting SMEs via the SME Association.
Most o f the SMEs will need assistance in terms of creating business plans, developing
accounts, finding sales markets, conducting marketing, meeting export standards, and a
wide variety o f other training needs. This will also include capacity buildingto produce
the required documentation for bank loans and other training specific to the lending
process. The training will be provided through the Small and Medium Business (SME)
Association andthe activities would include TA to develop a training strategy and model,
curriculum and prepare training material for the end borrowers, including carrying out a
train-the-trainers program. The subject o f the training to the SME ownerdmanagers
would include how to improve their efficiency and profitability, how to prepare the
business plan which is better linked to the requirement from the financial institutions.
The training will also include marketing, human resources management, production &
Operations development, finance & accounting skills. The IFC Mekong Private Sector
Development Facility has launched BusinessEdge, which offers management training
product and services to the SME sector inVietnam.

 13.    A. 2. SustainingPCFs and Non-BankMicrofinance InstitutionsOperations
to Better Service Rural Populations (US$ 1.74 million): Component I1o f the RFIII
project i s a small line o f credit designed to demonstrate the commercial viability o f
lending to micro-enterprises and household businesses.          It will be aimed at also
encouraging the participating o f financial institutions, as well as eligible rural People's
Credit Funds (small rural financial cooperatives) and licensed microfinance institutions,
to develop more robust microfinance services in rural areas. The PCFs and non-bank
microfinance institutions would be new institutions to the rural finance lending programs
o f the past and thus, this New InstitutionDevelopment sub-component would be aimed at
exclusively at them. This sub-component would include four inter-related elements o f
TA support:

0       Supporting the Selected Non-Bank PFIs (US$ 0.5 million): The non-bank PFIs,
        the PCFs and MFIs, selected to participate in the MLF line o f credit would be
        supported by this sub-component. These PCFs and MFIs may need TA interms
        o f institutional strengthening, credit risk management, and lendingtechniques for
        micro-enterprises as part o f their use o f the MLF funding. This may be limited
        given that these non-bank PFIs will be selected based on rigorous accreditation
        criteria and assessment by the APEX Bank, BIDV, before the determination o f
        participationinthe MLF line o f credit i s made.

0       Strengthening the Vietnam Association of People's Credit Funds (US$ I.24
        million): The People's Credit Funds (PCFs) network is a form o f cooperative
        credit organization that must ensure its growth and self-sustainability for



                                              37

       development.      This network has gone through important stages since its
       foundation in 1993 including a fast-development stage (1993-1999),                   a
       consolidation phase under the guidance o f the SBV (2000-2003) and a return to a
       more secure organizational development since 2003. This approach has moved
       the PCF network to gradually set up a national organization to link the 955 PCFs
       and the Central Credit Fund(CCF), which is a sort o f credit cooperative bank to
       the PCF network. The idea has emerged to improve the security o f the entire
       network and begin to free the State Bank o f Vietnam from its direct support for
       the PCF network. The creation o f the new Association (VAPCF) inlate 2005 is a
       first step forward towards this new national approach and VAPCF has been
       officially operating since January 2006.      The VAPCF has a number o f core
       objectives, including: guiding the members to implement the regulations and
       laws concerning the operation o f PCFs, supporting the PCFs in transferring
       technologies and management experiences, setting standards for the operations o f
       PCFs (i.e., reporting, accounting, credit, internal control, etc.), and organizing
       professional training courses for the PCFs.      The VAPCF i s a relatively new
       organization and i s still struggling to establish itself as an effective tool for the
       PCF network. The Association i s receiving technical assistance, but there will be
       substantial follow-up that will be required to continue the VAPCF capacity
       building. Given that it is expected that 10-20 PCFs will participate in the MLF
       line o f credit and the aim is to show a demonstration effect, the VAPCF is a
       logical organization to spread the lessons o f the pilot lending under the MLF
       across the entire PCF network.       Some o f the key areas o f need that can be
       supported by this TA sub-component are expected to be:              (i)building the
       supervision, external auditing, and internal control fhctions within the PCF
       network, (ii) rolling out a standardized credit manual across the PCF network, (iii)
       supporting the development o f management information, banking software,
       accounting, and reporting systems across the PCF network, (iv) implementingthe
       organizational and business planfor the VAPCF, (v) improving the funding o f the
       VAPCF, (vi) strengthening the humanresources o f the VAPCF, and (vii) training
       the PCFs on the standardized operational procedures in various areas, such as
       credit risk management. Some limited support will be provided under this sub-
       component to the State Bank o fVietnam. The purpose will be to include the SBV
       inthe capacitybuildingofthe VAPCF so that the SBV, as the supervisory agency
       o f the PCF network, understands the developments and begins to gain a level o f
       comfort with the VAPCF.

 14.   A. 3. New Financial Services Development- PFIs (US$ 1.9 million): This
sub-component i s designed to encourage PFIs to develop new products, particularly to
serve the rural economy inVietnam. The basic idea behind this component would be to
allow for innovations in the provision o f rural financial services and supporting those
PFIs that are interested in offering new products to rural enterprises and households.
There will be four distinct elements to this New Market Development component as
follows:




                                            38

0  Cash Flow-Based Lending (US$ 0.83 million): One critical barrier to access to
   finance i s the stringent use by banks o f collateral to back loans, which for small
   rural enterprises with little in the way o f valuable (or acceptable) collateral, this
   necessarily limits their ability to grow their businesses through a bank loan.
   However, because most banks do not provide non-collateralizedloans, substantial
   training o f staff, as well as new standardized systems and policies would be
   required to effectively undertake cash-flow based lending by the PFIs to rural
   enterprises. This component will enable the PFIs to design cash flow-based credit
   technologies that would provide the PFIs with simple, client-responsive,
   standardized loan product designs         with built-in specialized accounting,
   monitoring, risk management and management information systems designed
   specifically for small-scale loans. The credit technologies would allow the PFIs to
   better judge the borrower's ability to pay based on a variety o f input factors,
   which would not be totally reliant upon collateral availability and valuation, and
   would allow them to better price their products based on the risks and costs
   identified by the system. The success o f such technologies would require that
   they be paired with training to loan officers, managers, etc. to better understand
   their application. The TA provided could support feasibility studies for any new
   technologies requiredfor implementation, as well as for training to the PFIs. This
   will be coordinated with the IFC's Mekong Private Sector Development Facility
   (IFC-MPDF) Vietnam Bank Advisory Project to help Vietnam's commercial
   finance institutions provide more and better services to micro, small and medium
   enterprises, as well as individual consumers.

e  Insuring Against Agricultural Risks (US$ 0.5 million):           Another key area
   requiring new innovative approaches is risk mitigation for agricultural lending.
   The agricultural sector in Vietnam i s regularly subjected to a variety o f risks,
   including weather (floods, droughts, typhoons, etc.) and disease (avian flu, etc.),
   but there are virtually no products available to the banks to hedge their exposures
   to the agricultural sector.    Insurance penetration in Vietnam i s very low, in
   common with other countries in the region, but it i s growing. However, most
   insurance coverage i s not geared towards agricultural risks.        Therefore, the
   innovations that will be supported under this sub-component would include
   supporting the PFIs with TA to explore new insurance products. One example o f
   such an innovation could be weather-indexed insurance coverage for agricultural
   businesses. The country, particularly the rural areas, i s particularly prone to
   adverse weather, which mainly manifests itself in the form o f floods at regular
   intervals. VBARD, the biggest bank which serves rural areas has to send its
   credit officers after each flood to check the impact and often has to reschedule
   loans made to those who were impacted by the floods.             This causes major
   problems for both the enterprises and the banks, and thus a new type o f weather-
   based insurance product could greatly mitigate the risks associated with lending to
   certain types o f businesses in particular locales in Vietnam. In addition, there
   appears to be demand from agricultural-relatedbusinesses for insurance products
   to mitigate the risks of disease in fish, livestock, poultry, etc. Thus, the PFIs




                                        39

        could be provided TA to build these services in partnership with insurance
        companies.

e       Generating Long-Term Funding (US$ 0.5 million): A key financing constraint
        that the RFIII project attempts to address i s the lack o f medium- and long-term
        financing in the banking system. At the moment, the majority o f banks raise
        funds via mobilizing relatively basic deposits from individuals and corporations
        andthere are very few alternative savings products offered by the banks. As was
        mentioned in Annex 1, only about one-third o f all deposits are longer than 1year
        inmaturity and thus, much of the longer-term lending is being fundedby short-
        term money. This is a significant barrier to the investment needs o f the growth
        businesses in Vietnam. Therefore, this sub-component would provide TA to the
        PFIs to assist in designing, marketing, and managing new longer-term savings
        products, including varied deposit account structures, Certificates o f Deposit, and
        other products such as bonds.

 15.    A. 4. EnvironmentalCompliance in Lending-PFIs (US$ 0.4 million): Given
that environmental safeguards are an important innovation inthe RFIIIproject - no other
lending operations in Vietnam have factored in environmental concerns - emphasis will
be given to this area. This sub-component will provide training to the PFIs on the
environmental guidelines and manual prepared for lending under the RDF (and MLF).
The PFIswill receive training on the procedures for appraisal, evaluation, and monitoring
o f compliance with environmental assessment and pest management safeguards, as well
as on the restricted and negative lists o f environmentally (and socially) sensitive sub-
projects. This will cover two times environment audit during the project implementation
for the sub-projects financed. This will also cover the costs o f developing and printing
thepamphlets for the end-borrowers on the environmentalrequirements o fthe project.

Subcomponent B.         Strengtheningthe Participating Financial Institutions - Loan
BasedAssistance (US$ 10million)

 16.    B. 1. Strengtheningthe APEX Bank BIDV (US$ 1.5 million): Assistance will
                                                 -
be needed to continue the restructuring o f BIDV on organizational change, corporate
governance, and many operational areas o f the bank. This TA would follow-on the
previously provided assistance to BIDV in these areas and would also include a
significant proportion o f training andhands-on implementation assistance. Inaddition to
the general issues related to the bank restructuring, specific assistanceto BIDV related to
the project administration could include support to enhance its credit risk analysis and
determination o f the credit line exposures for the PFIs. Support to the PMU for the
project, TCIII, will be included inthis component. Such support will cover strengthened
analytical review o f the PFI strategies, methods o f capital increase, shareholder structure
and corporate governance issues, accounting standards and qualifications, and
implications o f the trends inthe financial ratios. This support will also cover a variety o f
training for BIDV management and staff, as well as the relevant goods required to
support the implementation o f the project such as computers, printers, a supervision car,
etc. BIDV will be requiredto borrow to access this sub-component o f TA services.



                                             40

 17.   B. 2. Building the Capacities of the PFIs (US$ 8.5 million): The PFIs have
varied needs for technical assistance and training, from the broader range o f institutional
strengthening to credit appraisal and risk management specific to the RFIII lending
operation. The emphasis o f the TA to PFIs under this sub-component would be on those
needs specific to the provision of financial services to rural micro-enterprises and SMEs,
as well as ruralhouseholds. This particular sub-component will be an on-demand facility
that will work towards the various PFIneeds based on their specific demands given that
the PFIswillbe requiredto borrow to support this TA. However, it is expected that there
willbe the following elements to this sub-component:

e      Strengthening Rural SME Lending PFIs (US$ 0.5 million): The PFIs would
                                               -
       likely needtraining managing credit risk to these customer segments, pricing the
       loans to incorporate the full risk, cost, and profit considerations, effectively
       engage inmore unsecured lendingand lendingto small-sized rural enterprises and
       households, usingthe movable assets registry, marketingto new market segments,
       and other issues surrounding rural enterprise business development. The TA
       could also include strategic advisory services on branch expansion in rural areas
       and methods o f outreach into these areas and businesses in the rural economy.
       Some o f the assistance could be provided through existing facilities, such as the
       Bank Training Center and the Vietnam Banker's Association, and some training
       may have to be customized and tailored for eachPFI.

       Improving Potential PFIs (US$ 1 million): Those banks that do not fully meet
       the accreditation criteria set forth inAnnex 4.3 can also participate inthis specific
       sub-component. These banks can access this facility to develop a time-bound
       action plan, or Institutional Development Plan (IDP), to reach the performance
       benchmarks o f the accreditation criteria. The IDP would be specific to each PFI
       given that each PFIwill have unique strategies, strengths, and weaknesses, but all
       IDPswould be aimed at reaching the same targets. Upon such time the PFImeets
       the criteria, it will be eligible for an allocation o f the RDF and/or MLF line o f
       credit. The aim o f this sub-component i s to assist the ineligible PFIs inimproving
       their performance, and ultimately, to encourage their participation in the RDF
       and/or MLFlines o f credit to expand access to finance inthe rural economy.

e      Enhancing the Largest Rural Financial Institution - VBARD (US$ 7.0million):
       The Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD) i s the
       largest bank in Vietnam by branches (about 2,200 nationwide) and by total assets
       (approximately US$ 12billion), as well as by employees (over 30,000). VBARD
       began its history as a specialized lending institution to support agricultural
       lending. Since the banking reforms in the late 1990s, VBARD began shifting
       toward more commercialized banking operations. By 2001, as with all o f the
       State Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs), VBARD began shifting its strategy
       towards a more diversified, universal banking model aimed at increased private
       sector lending and retail bankingthrough its branch network, but still the core o f
       the bank's operations is inrural household and SME lending. As with all o f the



                                             41

SOCBs, VBARD i s also tryingto expandits non-interest income through offering
new products and services. The overall restructuring o f VBARD has yielded
some positive results and the bank has historical strengths, but the bank still faces
weaknesses and threats inthe near term. The key institutional weaknesses o f the
bank include inefficient and decentralized organizational design with limited
built-inaccountability for risks and systems for accurate accounting o fthe bank's
position. These inefficiencies have resulted inlagging financial performance with
inadequate capital adequacy, unknown asset quality and insufficiency o f loan loss
provisions, low liquidity with possible maturity mismatches, and limited
profitability. As such, VBARD today would not be able to participate inthe RDF
and MLF as it would not meet the minimum accreditation criteria.            VBARD
drafted an Institutional Development Plan (IDP) in late-2007, which when
finalized, will be the basis for financial performance enhancement andprovide the
roadmap for meeting the RFIII eligibility / accreditation criteria. By agreeing to
an IDP mutually acceptable to the bank and IDA, VBARD would be eligible to
participate in the above-mentioned sub-component to build the institutional
strengths to enable the bank to meet the accreditation criteria and participate in
the RDF and/or MLF lines o f credit. In addition, because VBARD has such a
wide network presence inrural areas, it is essential to enhance the performance o f
this institution to better serve the rural-based businesses.          Therefore, this
particular sub-component would be focused expressly on helping VBARD
implement its institutional development plan, but with particular emphasis on
those areas directly connected to the activities o f the project, namely household
and MSME lending. Therefore, some areas that this technical assistance
component would support include:
    o Diagnostic review of the bank - In order to establish a benchmark for
        financial performance under the IDP, as well as for the restructuring and
        planned equitization o f VBARD, a full diagnostic review o f the bank will
        be required. Such a review would be broader than a routine audit, which
        is based on a sampling, and would cover the entire branch network and all
        aspects o f the bank's business with particular focus on the loanportfolio.
    o Detailed Appraisal of Rural Branch Operations and Development of
        Future Structure - VBARD needs to carry out a detailed assessment o f
        the effectiveness and efficiency o f its entire branch network operations
        and following this to put inplace the most efficient and effective network
        to serve its customer requirements profitably. For purposes o f this project,
        the focus will largely be on the rural branch network o fVBARD.
    o Building a comprehensive business strategy - Based on the diagnostic
        review and assessment o f the bank's branch operations, both o f which
        should reveal the strengths that VBARD should build on and the
        weaknesses VBARD should address, the bank will need assistance in
        developing a comprehensive business strategy for the next five year
        period. This strategy should cover the future direction o f the bank in
        terms o f objectives, operations, organization, and ownership.




                                      42

o Establishing a human resource capacity building program - A critical
  element o f the success o f VBARD's fbture strategy will adequate human
  resource capacities to implement it effectively. Therefore, the bank will
  need to build on assessments and strategic plans developed (under a
  separate assistance program to VBARD under the RFII project) to carry
  out the training programs. The training programs developed will cover
  areas specifically geared to household and MSME lending operations,
  including:
      .   Develop an extensive training program for credit ofjcers - All
          credit officers should attend a major training program at least every
          two years. The bank should develop a range o f programs with
          assistance from an international organization covering credit
          assessment, control o f credit, problem loans, SME lending,
          financial and planning assessment, programs specific to particular
          industrysegments.

          Leaders - Lending groups are an important element ina significant
          Develop a series of training programs for Lending Group

          proportion o f household lending and they carry out an analysis o f
          the customer and their requirements before the customer
          approaches the bank. It is inthe interest o f VBARD to ensure that
          the leaders o f these groups receive some training on a periodic
          basis from VBARD on credit assessment and risks associated with
          credit as well as with VBARD's overall approach to risk.
o Developing a risk based approach to credit - VBARD will need to
  develop and put in place a modem risk based approach to household and
  SME lending. This will include putting in place the systems and
  procedures so that the risks associated with its various markets can be
  continuously assessedandupdated.
o Put in place a modern credit assessment and controlprocess -VBARD
  has a credit assessment and monitoring process in place which is largely
  based on the existing credit manual. This i s a manual-based system with
  no reliance on modem technology for the analysis o f the information,
  control o f the lending, and follow up processes. As the bank has
  significant numbers o f small loans to family households it needs to
  implement a modem system with good use o f technology to make the
  processing o f these loans more efficient and to facilitate the introduction
  o f automatic control and follow up procedures. Credit Scoring should be
  put inplace for some smaller loans andthebankshouldhave a control and
  monitoring system that focuses the effort on where the key problems arise
  rather than across the total portfolio as i s the case at present with
  household lending.
o Develop a mechanismfor the overall quality control of lending -This is
  necessary for controlling non performing loans by the credit and risk
  function at head office and in the provinces. VBARD does not have any



                               43

clear system for controlling the overall quality o f its portfolio at present.
Their primary effort i s focused on collecting the necessary information on
non performing loans. The bank needs to put in place a mechanism
whereby the information requirements can be provided automatically by
the information system and that the bank develops the important skills o f
managing the problem loans successfully so that the bank achieves a high
repayment rate andresolutiono f these accounts inthe shortest timescale.




                             44

                Annex 4.1:AlternativeProjectDesignOptions Considered


A numbero foptions were considered for on-lending arrangements under the proposed
project, including the following:

1.       Alternative Options for Project Design: In designing the Rural Finance I11
project, various options were considered interms o f structuring the line of credit. Under
the RFIIproject, BIDV was selected unilaterally as the wholesale bank to administer the
line o f credit. This was done at the early stages o f the bankingreform program, in2001,
andthe choices ofpotential wholesale bankswere very limited. The bankingsector has
since evolved, however the range o f realistic choices for project design has not
dramatically changed since the design o f the RFII. Four basic options were considered in
the design, including: (a) Status Quo - a Wholesale Banking Operation (WBO) to be
carried out by a pre-selected APEX Bank, the Bank for Investment and Development of
Vietnam (BIDV), that would bear the full credit risk; (b) Modified Status Quo - a
Wholesale Banking Operation (WBO) to be carried out by a pre-selected Agent Bank,
BIDV, that would only administer the line of credit without taking the credit risk; (c)
Semi-competitive - several pre-determined participating financial institutions (PFIs)
would be selected based on the accreditation criteria to receive a line o f credit for on-
lendingto their respective clients; (d) Competitive -bidding out the WBO to the market
to select an APEX bank for the line o f credit. The advantages and disadvantages o f the
four options are summarized below.

2.       (a) Status Quo - This option would maintain the structure under Second Rural
Finance Project, with BIDV as APEX taking the credit risk.           There are some clear
advantages in selecting this option: (i) it allows more banks to participate inthe project,
thus increasing bankingcompetition inthe rural areas (one o fproject objectives); (ii) this
option would allow the project to diversify project's beneficiaries as each PFI will
accommodate its own clientele; (iii) option would better fit the basic concept o f a
                                       this
demanddriven operation, as it allows potential PFIs tojoin the project at their choice; (v)
social and economic impact o f the project i s spread, through the wholesale operation,
throughout the country. BIDV has performed well in managing the Rural Finance I1
(RFII) project, inparticular, staff from BIDV has carriedout the credit risk assessment o f
the participating financial institutions (PFIs) with professionalism and strived to ensure
that the subprojects financed by the PFIs were inline with the project the objectives. The
repayment rate from the PFIs to BIDV under the project has been 100%and the %age o f
past due loans from end-borrowers to the PFIs has been close to zero - only 0.3% by
August 2006. BIDV has made progress in institutional strengthening under the project
and various technical assistance programs. All o f the RFII project audits have been
unqualified and the financial management system has been judged to be sound. The
Government supports this option and BIDV i s interested in maintaining its role as the
APEX bank under the RFIII and is making serious efforts to implement its business
strategy, equitization, and Non-Performing Loan (NPL) resolution plans.                The
Government o f Vietnam is committed to support BIDV's ambitious equitization plan
which will makeBIDV a much stronger financial institution.


                                             45

3.      (b) ModifiedStatus Quo - This option would essentially have the same pros and
cons o f the Status Quo option (a), but with a few key exceptions. On the positive side,
usingBIDV as an agent bankwould limit the potentialrisks to the World Bank (WB) and
the Government in terms o f the exposure with the line o f credit managed by an SOCB
with weak financial performance. This would also reduce the reputationalrisk to the WB
in terms of being seen as endorsing an SOCB inpoor financial health. The credit risk
would be borne by the Government (Ministry o f Finance) and BIDV would simply
administer the line o f credit on behalf o f the Government through a contract and on a fee
or commission basis.      This option would expect MOF to carry out the credit risk
assessment function, which it does not have the capacities to do (nor should it).
However, if the MOF outsources this function, the line o f credit is de facto the same as
Option A, but with less ownership and motivation on the part o f BIDV to perform the
credit risk function and intensely monitor the performance o f the PFIs given they do not
take the credit risk and reap the benefits (interest earned) in doing so. The costs might
also be higher as BIDV could not cover its costs through the revolving funds o f the
project, but instead would charge higher fees that would compensate. In addition, the
M O F might be enticed to become more directly involved inthe bankingsector, including
possibly directing credit and influencing PFI management and banking operations. The
potential for such actions i s unknown, but if realized would constitute a major set-back
for the banking reform process. The Government has not expressed support for this
option.

4.      (c) Semi-Competitive This option would allow the Government and WB to pre-
                                -
select PFIs based on agreed upon accreditation criteria. The criteria would be set to
include the PFIs with the strongest financial health, as well as sound strategies and
abilities to expand access to credit in the rural economy. This would have the added
advantage o f limiting the credit and reputational risks by pre-selecting the PFIs.
However, the MOF would have to perform some form o f the APEX banking function,
would carry some o f the attendant risks as mentioned in Option (b). This option would
also be an expensive one in terms o f project preparation and supervision as it would
involve the appraisal o f several banks and later on routine supervision o f the performance
o f each o f the selected financial institutions and the way they were implementing the
project. The main disadvantage i s that such a design i s inflexible, specifically it would: (i)
prevent other financial institutions from joining the project in a later stage; and (ii)  limit
the number of PFIs that are able to participate under the project, thus limiting project
impact on enhancing banking competition in the rural areas and diversification o f its
beneficiaries. Experience in other countries has indicated that there are often problems in
making desirable re-allocations o f committed funds from institutions which are unable to
disburse funds quickly to those which could use them. This 'predetermined' option, if
selected, would reduce the likelihood that the project would fully meet all its objectives.

5.      (d) Competitive This option would essentially be the same as the Option (a)
                           -
with the manyo fthe samepros andcons, but insteado fpre-selecting the APEX bank, the
role would be bid out the WBO to the market. This would allow all o f the interested
banks inVietnam to compete for the APEX bank role based on their terms and ability to



                                              46

meet predetermined accreditation criteria set by the Government and WB. This would
enable the Joint Stock Banks to compete directly with the SOCBs and would potentially
bringina more financially soundbankto be the APEX bank,provide a lower cost option,
and enable more efficient management and administrative capabilities to the WBO.
However, all o f the PFIs (private joint stock banks) under the RFIIproject are all o f a
small-scale interms of assets (averaging US$286 million) and have strategies to be retail
lenders, therefore these bankshave not expressed interest intakingthe wholesale banking
role.  The remaining three SOCBs also have not expressed strong interest in the
wholesale bankingrole giventheir strategies, with the agricultural bank seeking to act as
a PFIunder the project and the other two bankspursuingstrategies that are not aligned to
performing a wholesale banking function. Finally, the bidding process would be very
time-consuming and expensive and carries the risks that there are no banks interested, the
bids are expensive and not suited for the project needs, and the project reverts to the
status quo. The Government has not expressed support for such an option.




                                           47

                        Annex 4.2: Appraisalof the APEX Bank

                   Bankfor InvestmentandDevelopmentofVietnam


1.      Choice of On-lending Bank. The Government proposed that the Bank for
Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV), a State Owned Commercial Bank
(SOCB), be the APEX bank and the institution responsible for the implementation o f this
project, including managing the credit risk o f the line o f credit. BIDV has performed
well in administering the Rural Finance I1(RFII) Project, inparticular, staff from BIDV
has carried out the credit risk assessment o f the participating financial institutions (PFIs)
with professionalism and strived to ensure that the subprojects financed by the PFIswere
inline with the project the objectives. The repayment rate from the PFIs to BIDV under
the project has been 100% and the percentage of past due loans from end-borrowers to
the PFIs has been close to zero - only 0.3% by August 2007. BIDV has also met all o f
the disbursement targets under the RFII project and administered the project in
compliance with all o f the World Bank guidelines and requirements, including the
separate technical assistance component.        All o f the RFII project audits have been
unqualified andthe financial management system has beenjudged to be sound.

2.      Beyond the proven project management capacities                 of BIDV, another
consideration for selecting BIDV as the APEX bank was that most o f the PFIs (private
joint stock banks) under the RFII project are all of a small-scale in terms o f assets
(averaging US$286 million) andhave strategies to be retail lenders, therefore these banks
did not express interest in taking the wholesale banking role. The remaining three
SOCBs also have not expressed strong interest in the wholesale bankingrole given their
strategies, with the agricultural bank seeking to act as a PFI under the project and the
other two banks pursuing strategies that are not aligned to performing a wholesale
bankingfunction. BIDV is keen to maintain its role as the APEX bank under this RFIII
and is making serious efforts to implement its business strategy, equitization, andNon-
Performing Loan (NPL) resolution plans.          BIDV has made progress in institutional
strengthening under the project and various technical assistance programs and the overall
financial health o f the bank has shown significant improvement. Therefore, the role o f
BIDV as the APEX bank for theproject has been confirmed.

3.      However, BIDV does not meet all o f the financial performance accreditation
criteria required for participating financial institutions and as such, BIDV has prepared a
newly updated Institutional Development Plan (IDP) that includes a time bound schedule
for meetingall accreditationcriteria that it does not currently meet. BIDV has also submit
to IDA an update on its strategic plans (business, equalization, NPL,IDP, etc.). Based on
information from BIDV management and staff, it is expected that BIDV shouldhave met
most o f the PFI accreditation criteria by end-2007 and this will be verified by the 2007
IFRS audit report. This Annex describes this progress, as well as the overall financial
health andperformanceo fthe bank.




                                              48

4.       History of the Bank. The Bank for Investment and Development o f Vietnam
began its history as a specialized lending institution to finance large-scale capital and
infrastructure projects in the country. BIDV was established in 1957 as the Bank o f
Construction o f Vietnam, and re-established in 1996 as an independent state owned
commercial bank. BIDV i s the second largest bank inVietnam by assets and a relatively
large bank interms o f physical presence, with 103 main branches and 202 sub-branches
and transaction offices across all 64 provinces o f Vietnam and 10,000 employees as o f
September 2006.

5.       Since the bankingreforms in the late 1 9 9 0 ~ ~
                                                        BIDV lost its monopoly position in
the area o f large-scale financing andthe bank, as with all o fthe SOCBs, began shiftingits
strategy towards a more diversified, universal banking model aimed at increased private
sector lending and retail bankingthrough its branchnetwork. Despite the shift, lending to
State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) still represents the majority o f the BIDV's portfolio with
the bank still maintaining strong relationships the large SOEs engaged in construction
activities. As with all o f the SOCBs, BIDV i s also trying to expand its non-interest
income through offering new products and services. The new business lines the bank is
expanding into include leasing, securities, insurance, cards, andATMs. BIDV i s the third
largest o f the four main SOCBs by branches and total assets. The overall restructuring of
BIDV has yielded some positive results andthe bankhas some inherent strengths, but the
bank still faces weaknesses andthreats inthe near term.

6.       Overall Financial Performance. BIDV's financial performance is showing
significant improvements in a number o f areas, but the bank i s still struggling with the
legacy loans o f its past role as a directed lending institution. BIDV has been one o f the
most aggressive banks in the Vietnamese market to pursue International Accounting
Standard (IAS) audited accounts andthe bank has publishedthem intheir Annual Reports
since 2004, side-by-side to its Vietnamese Accounting Standard (VAS) audits. Based on
the 2006 IAS accounts, one can see an improvement in the income statement with an
increase ininterest income o f 17% implyingan increase inthe interest margin. The bank
also maintained relatively strong performance on the measures o f efficiency - expenses
to loans and assets - and the bank's net profit also rose during the period to reach 613
billion Vietnamese Dong, or VND, (US$ 38.6 million) in2005. This allowed the bank to
record a Returnon Equity (ROE) o f 16% and Return on Assets (ROA) o f 0.4%. While
this is an improvement over previous years and BIDV is continually making strong
improvements in performance, BIDV compares unfavorably against many international
performance benchmarks in East Asia and among developed country banks for
performance.     BIDV's profitability is increasing, but it is still relatively low when
compared with the benchmarks for banks operating in East Asia and in developing
economies. BIDV's capital adequacy i s also well below the 7.2% average in East Asia,
as its liquidity, and the asset quality i s also lagging. BIDV has also been reviewed in
May 2007 by an international rating agency, Moody's, and received a low BankFinancial
StrengthRating o fE+(on a scale fiom A to E, with A being the best), which was a slight
improvement over the October 2006 rating o f E. The rating was given because o f the
bank's "significant asset quality problems, its weak funding profile, and modest
liquidity," however, Moody's provided a positive outlook for BIDV due to the bank's
"strengthening profitability, ongoing restructuring, and recapitalization."   Below i s a


                                              49

comparative table showing BIDV's performance on a number o f key metrics compared
with the average inEast Asia anddeveloped economies worldwide.

                 Table 1: Benchmarking BIDV's Financial Performance


 Performance Indicators                                       East Asia         DevelopedCountry
                                           BIDV'              Average**             Average"*




 Sources:
 *** 2005 DatafFom
   2006IASAudit Datafor BIDV, Ernst & Young Vietnam.
                    the IFC derivedfiom Banh-scope. East Asia data based on an average of 25 banks
 across 7 countries and Developed Country data based on an average of 43 banks across 12 countries.



7.      Overall Asset Quality. The asset quality o f BIDV has been increasing on a slow
and steady trajectory over the past five years, but has witnessed a sudden rapid
improvement in 2006. Although the exact quality o f the loan portfolio before 2003 i s
difficult to ascertain on an international standard basis, the broad trends can be described.
BIDV initiated are-orientationof its asset profile. BIDVbrought its level o fNPLs down
to 9.6% from a level o f over 33% in 2002, slowed lending from a growth rate o f 37% in
2002 to 19% by 2006, and increased the level o f provisions to cover 60% o f NPLs by
2006. In addition, BIDV has increased its holdings o f government securities and
placements with other banksby 167% since 2002, andthese holdings constituted 21% o f
total assets by 2006. The shift in the portfolio represents part o f the bank's strategy o f
graduallymoving into less risky asset holdings and focusing on asset quality over growth.

8.      Management and Corporate Governance. The management o f BIDV, under
the strong and committed leadership o f the bank's General Director, has taken many
aggressive steps since 2005 to improve the performance o f the bank. Under the direction
o f the bank's management, BIDV has completed the second phase o f a comprehensive
technical assistance program ("TA2") with an international advisory partner, ING Bank.
The project was supported and managed by the World Bank and was focused on
strengthening BIDV's strategic planning, organizational model (including corporate
governance), restructuring the head office organization and member units, improving the


                                                 50

credit risk, asset and liability management, internal audit, and other key operational
functions in line with international best practices in banking operations. The bank has
already incorporated many elements o f the technical assistance, includinginthe strategic
planningprocess, and is contractingthe next phase o f assistanceto fully implement many
o fthe recommendations provided under the TA2 project.

9.      Strategy. The bank has drafted the strategy to 2010 and it has been approved by
the Board o f Directors and Board o f Management. This strategy includes new product
development and IT modernization approaches. BIDV has also taken steps to centralize
the operations o f the branch network and i s planning a regional hub structure, including
setting lower credit approval limits and rolling out the core banking and management
information systems to the branch network (144 branches and subsidiaries). BIDV has
activated the Risk Management Unit to implement its risk management policies,
guidelines, and tools. This Unit is also developing the Operational Risk Framework and
the Manual for Credit Risk Management. The bank is also pushingtraining programs to
its staff on a range of issues, including credit risk management, with the support o f the
World Bank. Inthe first 4 months o f 2006, BIDV had already conducted 45 courses for
2,133 staff across the bank under the Project's budget. Finally, BIDV is a market leader
inpublishingtheir IAS accounts inthe bank's Annual Reports andwas the first bank in
the market to complete its 2005 I A S audit.       Related to this move towards greater
transparency, the bank also invited Moody's to provide a rating o f the bank inApril 2006
and again, invited Moody's back to update the ratinginMay 2007.

10.     The strategic plans o f the bank (business, equalization, NPL, IDP, etc.), which in
the past did not appear to be inter-related, now are highly inter-active. In fact, the April
2007, "Brief Report on the Implementation o f BIDV's Strategic Plans," brought the
various strategic plans together in one coherent explanation o f the future targets and
actions the bank plans to take to 2010.       The financial performance targets in these
strategic plans seem to be much more realistic and fact-based than in the past, the
sequencing o f the actions appear to be logical, and the ambitions inthe strategies appear
to be largely aligned with the strengths o fBIDV.   ,


11.     Inaddition, inspite of all ofthe positiveprogress over the past year and a half,
BIDV, as with all o f the SOCBs, faces a fundamental corporate governance and
incentives challenge.     This is due to the uncertainty surrounding who has the
responsibility to provide management oversight from a shareholder point o f view and
hence, who has the power to act. The SBV plays the shareholder role and i s often
involved inmanagement-level decisions through regulatory mandates, while the Ministry
o f Finance (MoF) has little real power in the SOCBs.         SOCB managers need SBV
approval for many business decisions and the bank faces other government imposed
constraints, such as expenditure limits andprofit targets. The shareholder role inputting
pressure on management to perform i s largely absent in the SOCBs and there i s no
independent reporting to shareholders on performance o f the SOCBs, nor to the Board o f
Directors (BOD)on the performance o f the managers. Thus, the performance incentives
based on profit maximization and delivering value to shareholders i s largely absent. All
o f this may change in the near term with the planned "equitization,"             or partial
privatization, o f BIDV in2008.


                                             51

12.     Equitization of the Bank. BIDV plans to equitize, or partially privatize, the
bank by selling shares and on January 2, 2007, the Prime Minister directed the bank to
complete the process by 2008. Details of the equitization plan were finalized by end o f
November 2006 and the Steering Committee for the equitization was established in
January 2007. BIDV has hired an international investment bank to help in the advisory
process to seek out a foreign strategic investor, as well as to help invaluing the bank and
developing the share sale strategy - the bidding and short list of international firms has
already taken place. It i s expected that an international investor will take a minimum 15%
stake in the bank and another 15% will be sold via an initial public offering process on
the domestic stock markets. BIDV i s seeking to accomplish the following objectives
through the equitization proces: (a) enhance financial performance; (b) improve
management capabilities by attracting international management experience; (c) facilitate
BIDV's international integration; (d) become more competitive and further increase
market share; and (e) update technology and develop new products. N o other state-
owned commercial banks inVietnam have actually undertaken the equitization process to
date, but it i s expected that BIDV will be the third to do so (after the Bank for Foreign
Trade, or "Vietcombank," and the MekongHousing Bank). Once BIDV does undergo an
initial public offering on the market, presumably the Ho Chi Minh Stock Exchange, it
will be subject to all o f the listing standards o f the exchange, including importantly those
for disclosure and corporate governance.

13.     RecommendedRestructuringand Progress. BIDVhas madeaggressive efforts
towards improving the operational and managerial performance o f the bank. Inmid-2006,
the World Bank reviewed this progress (under the supervision process o f the Rural
Finance I1project) and made recommendations for continued reform and restructuring.
BIDV showed impressive initiative inmeeting the recommendations in a short period o f
just six months. The table below provides an approximate measurement o f the progress
to date. Three notable developments shown in Table 2 below should be highlighted.
First, BIDV has developedand is now implementing anNPLresolutionplanthat sets out
ambitious targets for achieving a low level o f NPLs by end-2007, aiming at a 5% or
below. Second, BIDV has developed, with the help on an international auditing firm
(Ernst & Young), an Internal Credit Rating System (ICRS) to evaluate and classify all o f
its loans more accurately which was put into operation in November 2006 that covers
68% o f the loan portfolio.         Finally, as mentioned above, BIDV developed and is
implementing an equitization plan that envisages BIDV becoming a publicly held bank,
including significant share holdings by strategic international investor(s).




                                               52

Table 2: RecommendationsandRestructuringProgress byBIDV



                   World Bank
                Recommendations
                    (June2006)


         Rapidly reduce lending to the                      BIDVis implementing anInternal
         industries, sectors, geographic     Credit Rating System (ICRS) to evaluate and
         locations, and enterprises          classify all o f its loans more accurately. The
         identifiedas beinghighriskand       ICRS has beenapproved by the SBV andnow
         generating NF'Ls (Categories 3,     covers 68% o f the bank's loanportfolio. The
         4, 5 loans) for the bank and        bank i s now taking action to reduce the lending
         address the portfolio o f Category  to the poorly performing customer segments.
         2 (special mention) loans.

         Aggressively pursue the NPL                        A detailedNPLresolutionplanhas
         resolution plan with greater        been developed and BIDV is targeting a level o f
         emphasis on selling the NPLs to     N P L s o f 5% by end-2007 through aggressive
         the Debt and Asset Trading          collection, andresolutionthrough provisioning,
         Company (DATC) and                  sales to the DATC, andrecapitalizationby the
         resolution through Government       Government. Based on new ICRS, the NPLs
         recapitalization.                   within the bank in2006 (based on the IAS audit
                                             report) were 9.6% o f total loans outstanding.

       0 Getthe strategic plans ofthe                       BIDVhasprepared anequitization
         bank, including the overall plan    plan, which has beenapproved by the
         to 2010and the equitization         Government, and BIDVi s contracting an
         plan, approved and adopted.         international strategic advisor for the valuation
                                             o fthe bank and developing the equitization
                                             strategy for the share sale by the endo f 2007.
                                             BIDValso has anInstitutionalDevelopment
                                             Plan, which appears to be inline with its overall
                                             strategic planfor the bank.

         Fullyimplement and enforce the                     Thisis still a work inprogress.
         new credit manual and
         procedures across the bank
         network and implementa system
         o frewards andpenalties for
         performance for credit officers.

         Also, implement the planto                         As ofNovember, the ICRShas
         develop a customer ratings          beenbuiltand i s now being put into place
         systemandmove the internal          across the bank, including the branchnetwork.
         reporting and loan classification   The ICRS monitors approximately 68% o f total
         systems to the international        loanportfolio. Loans to individualborrowers
         standard andpilot test the          are not includedunder ICRS yet. The SBV, by
         systems.                            official letter No. 9745/NHNN-CHN dated
                                             November 14,2006, approved the adequacy o f
                                             BIDV's ICRS as perArt.7 of SBV Decision
                                             493.

         Make additionalprogress in                         This is a work inprogress. The
         pricing credit to reflect the full  ICRS should help indifferentiating customers



                                     53

costs andrisks associatedwith      basedon risk and thus, should helpinpricing
the loans with a resulting larger  the products and services.
interest income and increased
profitability ratios.

Reverse the trends inmedium-to                     BIDV signeda 5 year loan
long-term fundmobilization to      agreementwith RFZBank (Austria) on
better alignthe assets and         November 6 for $200 million inan effort to
liabilities o fthe bank and        restructure its liabilities, thus improving the
provide for increased              profile o f its long-term assets which now are
opportunity to undertake longer    partially financed by short-term liabilities.
term investments and loans.        Other efforts are also being made.

Continue to provide high quality                   BIDVconducted training on
training to the bank staff                         trainers nationwide in3
involved inthe credit decision                     geographical regions. Training
making process, as well as in                      courses on credit operations have
other areas o fthe bank criticalto                 beenimplemented for branches
riskmanagement.                                    nationwide. As o fthe end o f
                                                   September, 7 out o f 8 planned
                                                   courseshave beencarried out
                                                   under Rural Finance I1project. In
                                                   addition, BIDV intends to develop
                                                   a human resources strategy and
                                                   training programs through a projecl
                                                   to be fundedunder the RFII
                                                   project.

Accelerate the centralization o f           e      BIDVhas reduced the credit
the credit function from the                       approval limits o fbranches. The
branches, along with the                           fust restrictions have beenon
installation o f more robust                       medium and long-term lending and
internal controls and segregation                  the handling o f customers o f
o f duties.                                        Group B and customers with
                                                   Category 3,4, and 5 loans.

Prepare for a third phase o f                      BIDVis inthe process of
comprehensive technical                            contracting the project to be
assistance for the bank to build                   fundedunderthe Rural Finance I1
on the recommendations and                         project.
processes developed under the
Technical Twinning project with
INGBank, which closed in
2006.




                           54

         Annex 4.3: Eligibility Criteria forparticipating Financial Institutions


 1.      Purpose of Eligibility Criteria.       The eligibility criteria for the Participating
Financial Institutions (PFIs) inthe Rural Finance I11(RFIII) project have been developed
based on past experience under the previous Rural Finance projects, as well as best
practices in World Bank line o f credit operations worldwide.            The criteria set out
minimum standards o f financial performance benchmarks for PFIs to meet in order to
participate in the project. These benchmarks are structured to reflect the core areas o f a
financial institution - management and corporate governance, asset quality, capital
adequacy, liquidity, profitability, and efficiency - and are primarily aimed at setting a
basic standard o f financial health and soundness for eligible PFIs and encouraging other
financial institutions to reach these standards. Secondarily, the criteria are designed to
protect the on-lending bank from the potential credit risks o f the PFIs and to enable the
on-lending bank to better determine the appropriate level o f the size o f the line o f credit.
Finally, the criteria are designed to provide a standardized, comparable monitoring tool to
measure the progress made by the PFIs.

2.      Background on the Financial System. Vietnam's financial system i s still in
transition from servinga centrally plannedeconomy to servingan increasingly liberalized,
market-oriented economy. Since the reform program began in 2000, there have been
significant improvements, such as an increase o fbank credit to GDP from 35% in2000 to
66% in2005 anddeposits to GDP from 39% to 67% respectively. Inaddition, the growth
rate o f both credit and deposits has been rapid, averaging close to 30 % on an annual
basis. Importantly for this project, there i s now increased domestic competition, with 36
joint stock (semi-private) banks (JSBs) holding 15% o f the market share, although the
four large State Owned Commercial Banks (SOCBs) have maintained their dominance o f
the market, holding a steady 70-75% market share. Despite this progress, the level o f
financial performance of the banks has historically beenweak, which would be expected
at Vietnam's stage o f transition and economic development. Although some of the banks
are now solid performers, attracting the major international banks as partners and
investors, and recent evidence suggests that many o f the JSBs in particular are reaching
towards international standards o f performance. Therefore, it is important to establish
financial eligibility criteria that are in line with the direction o f the progress within the
banking system and to provide realistic, but achievable benchmarks for PFIs under the
RFIIIproject.

3.      General Criteria. Inorder to participate inthe project, a financial institution will
needto meet a set o f management and financial criteria that have been agreed with the
World Bank, and to have signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the on-lending bank
for the project. The Agreement will, inter alia, reflect the PFI's management interest in
and commitment to servicing the rural market, willingness to strictly adopt and adhere to
prescribed policies and procedures o f the project, commitment to hire and train new loan
officers, and to utilize the Technical Assistance Facility o f the project. In addition, the



                                               55

PFI would have to provide its full business strategy and plan for the future and the
rationale for its participation in the RFIII project. This would include the institution's
plan for outreach and expansion into rural areas, including in the various business
segments, andwould provide some indication o f how the RFIII i s inline with the overall
business strategy. As Table 1below indicates, the financial institution would also have to
be in substantial compliance with all the prudential and regulatory requirements o f State
Bank o fVietnam (SBV) and acceptable to the World Bank, with no pending supervisory
actions against the institution. The financial institutionwould also have to be licensed in
Vietnam to undertake banking operations and have an appropriate corporate governance
structure that complies with the appropriate regulations, with independence and capacity
to provide adequate supervision to management and control over the bank's lending
decisions. This would also include verification o f the PFI management that the bank
meets the fit and proper standards and other requirements o f Vietnamese banking laws
and regulations. Finally, the financial institutions must have (and provide) financial
reports for the past two years under VAS, audited by a reputable auditing firm that i s
acceptable to the SBV. Incases where the IAS audit reports are available, the PFIs shall
provide the I A S audit reports immediately. Otherwise, the PFIs shall provide I A S audit
reports within 2 years after receiving a credit line o f USD 3 million and above from the
project or at the discretion o f the APEX Bank. The audit reports should not contain any
serious qualifications and if they do, it will be at the discretion o f the APEX Bank, in
agreement with the World Bank, as to whether the audit reports will be accepted as
compliant with the eligibility criteria and whether the bank canparticipate inthe project.

4.      Financial Criteria.       As mentioned above, financial eligibility criteria are
structured to reflect the core areas o f a financial institution. The criteria included in
Table 1 cover standard ratios for asset quality, capital adequacy, liquidity, and
profitability. These financial criteria are designed to capture the key performance issues,
such as rapid business expansion (loan growth ratio), robustness o f risk management
practices (non-performing loans ratio), ability to cover losses (provisions, capital
adequacy ratios), and the sufficiency o f income generation (profitability ratios). Insum,
these indicators should provide a clear picture o f the overall health o f a financial
institution and in a time-series, will provide picture o f the positive and negative trends
within the institutions. It would also be useful to monitor other standard financial ratios
o f the PFIs, such as those for efficiency (operating expenses to assets, loans, and income)
to gauge the operational strength and others that are not criteria, but would be indicative,
such as the provisions to non-performing loans, net interest margin, and various liquidity
measures. Wherever possible, the criteria are benchmarkedto the East Asia region based
on the International Finance Corporation's (IFC) due diligence process for its investments
inbanks. However, theperformance benchmarks for Vietnam are adjusted to account for
the lower level o f economic and financial development as compared to the other six
mostly middle income countries used in the F C benchmarks.                  In addition, the
methodology for calculating the ratios is consistent with existing SBV regulations where
applicable.

5.      Meeting the Criteria. All potential PFIs would have to apply to participate inthe
RFIIIproject and the on-lending APEX bank, BIDV, along with the World Bank would
determine the eligibility o f a financial institution. Given that the APEX bank i s taking


                                              56

the full credit risk o f on-lending to the chosen PFIs, it will then conduct its own in-depth
due diligence on each PFIto determine creditworthiness andthe specific allocation ofthe
line o f credit for each PFIbased on this due diligence assessment. The APEX bank will
also conduct regular monitoring o f the performance o f the PFIs to ensure continued
eligibility throughout the project implementation. If a financial institution can not meet
the minimum criteria o f Table 1, it will not be eligible to participate in the RDF and/or
MLF line of credit under the FWIII project."               Such a financial institution would pose a
sufficiently highrisk to the on-lending bank and to the project. If a financial institution
does not meet all the criteria, then it can still participate in the line of credit and select
elements o f the technical assistance component (Component 111) o f the RFIIIproject if it
agrees to a time-bound action plan, or Institutional Development Plan (IDP), to reach the
performance benchmarks. The IDP would be specific to each PFI given that each PFI
will have unique strategies, strengths, and weaknesses, but all IDPs would be aimed at
reaching the same targets. The IDP will be done to the satisfaction o f and subject to
approval by the APEX bank, BIDV, and the World Bank. The IDP would be monitored
on an annual basis by the on-lending bank and the World Bank to ensure progress is
beingmade. Ifa financial institution meets all o fthe eligibility criteria, then it would not
need an IDP and would immediately become a PFI in the project and would receive an
allocation o fthe line o f credit based on the assessmentmade by the APEX bank, BIDV.

6.       Non-Bank Participating Financial Institutions. It is envisaged that for the
Micro-enterprise Development Fund, the PFIsparticipating inthe RDFwill be eligible to
participate in the MDF. In addition, non-bank PFIs will also be eligible for and
participate inthe MDF line o f credit. The non-bank PFIs that would qualify to participate
in the MDF would include primarily some select number of the best performing of the
955 People's Credit Funds (PCFs).                The PCFs are governed by the Law on Credit
Institutions and associated regulations and they are supervised directly by the State Bank
o f Vietnam. The PCFs are a network o f member-owned credit cooperatives that provide
savings and credit products. The PCF network serves 1million members with loans o f an
average value o f US$ 700-800. Dueto their small size, private (member) ownership, and
closeness to borrowers, PCFs can usually provide more varied loan products, albeit at
higher interest rates, than banks. The interest rates on loans vary significantly from 8.4 -
17.4% p.a., but loans to poorer members cost an average o f 9% p.a. The non-bank PFIs
that would be eligible to participate in the MDF would also possibly include a limited
number o f Microfinance Institutions (MFIs) that are licensed by the State Bank o f
Vietnam under Decree 28 o f 2005."               At the moment, no MFIs have been licensed to
operate under this Decree and the implementing guidelines and regulations have not been
finalized. Most potentially licensable MFIs are non-governmental organizations that
are supported by international donors o f some form and most programs use a
solidarity-group methodology, either o f the village bank or Grameen Bank-type,
while a few (including the largest MFI, the CEP Fund in Ho Chi Minh City) also


loBased on September 2007 data from BIDV, 15 joint stock banks out of 24 PFIs under the RFIIproject
meet all of the proposed criteria and it i s expected that by end-2007, many more will reach the targets as
well.
l1Decree of the Government Number 28/2005/ND-CP of March 9, 2005, "On organization and operation
ofmicro finance institutions inVietnam."


                                                     57

provide individual loans and housing loans. The size o f outreach by these institutions
i s very small, with only about 142,200 loan accounts. Interest rates range between
0.8 - 2% per month, calculated on a flat or declining balance. The overall average
loan size reported is VND 1.5 million (US$ 95). Many o f the schemes offer financial
services as part o f an integrated package o f other activities. The criteria for these non-
bank PFIs under the MDF will be similar to those for PFIs as outlined inthis section and
inTable 1below. However, the underlying methodologies (and associated regulations)
governing the criteria, such as those for liquidity, asset quality, etc., listed in Table 1will
be different because these institutions are regulated differently than banks. In addition,
there are no standard international benchmarks for performance for these non-bank
institutions and the benchmarks used to judge these non-bank PFIs may differ than those
listed in Table 1. Therefore, the performance benchmarks will largely be in line with
Table 1, but can be modified at the discretion o f the APEX bank according to market
conditions for these non-bank PFIs.

                                          Table 1: EligibilityCriteriafor ParticipatingFinancialInstitutions"



                                                       Eligibility Criteria




 .........................................
             2                       PFI..........................licensed to operate'                                                                                                                                                             1
                                            "     i s                         .............................                                                                                                                                        1          >=3 years
                                                                                                                                                             f..   .................................................................. .....................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            "                                                   " ............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               "                                         " ................................i "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I............ NIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ................................................
                                      Level o f compliance with                                                                                                  i                                                                                          Nopending                                                   1                                                                   Ij

                                     banking laws andregulations'                                                                                                1                                                                                 Ii                                                                                                                                        1                    SiA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~




 ................................................................................                                                                                                                                                                                   actions
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t                                                                     I
                                                                                        "                        .........................................        ......................                           .................................       _ supervisory                                                                                            ......................."...........................................................
                                                                                                                                                                 ~                                                                                                                                                                                                "                     "              "
                                      Compliance with management                                                                                                 :                                                                                                                                                       j
             4                        and corporate governance                                                                                                   1                                                                                                       Full                                            I                                                                 i                      NIA
 ........................            regulations'
                                                                                                               ~                     ........................                                                                                                                                           .............................................................             "
              5                       Audited Accounts                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                    NIA
                                      Asset Quality
                                     Non-Performing Loans to                                                                                                     !                                                                                                                                                                                                                           !
                                      Total Outstanding Loans4                                                                                                                                                                                      1i               <=6%                                                                                                                                       3.2%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ~




                                         capital^Adequacy
                                      Owner's Equityto Total Risk                                                                                                                                                                                   1                                                                    I
                                      Weighted Assets'                                                                                                           i                                                                                                   >=8%                                                                                                                    i                  6.8%




 ......................
              9                      ReturnonEquity                                                                              ._."....................... *"...."".................................................
                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                                                  !..................._............................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  >= 10%                                                                                                                                      15.9% ...... ....
           10                        Return........................................................................
                                                                 on Assets                                                                                                                                                                                       >=0.5%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ...."             ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~                                                                                                                                                                                                   " ^.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1



 12         Note that for non-bank PFIs, such as the People's Credit Funds and Microfinance Institutions, the
underlying methodologies and regulations governing the criteria listed in Table 1 will be different. In
addition, there are no international benchmarks for performance and the benchmarks used to judge these
non-bank PFIs may differ than those listedinTable 1.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     58

 As per the Law on Credit Institutions (1997) and associated SBV regulations.
 As per the requirements o f SBV Decree 49/2000MD-CP o f September 12, 2000 (and any subsequent
revisedversions o f this regulation).
3Audited Accounts required to be done by a reputable accounting fm. The Audit should be basedon I A S
ifthe PFI has total assets above USD 500 million. Otherwise, the accounts will be prepared under VAS
with an actionplanto produce IAS-compliant accounts.
4As per the requirements o f SBV Decision 49312005lQD-NHNN o f April 22, 2005 and any subsequent
amendments, which outlines the five category classification system for loans, required level o f provisions
for each category, and the general level o f provisions.
 As per the requirements o f SBV Decision 457/2005/QD-NHNN o f April 19, 2005 and any subsequent
amendments.
 From the 2005 performance benchmarks o f the International Finance Corporation (IFC) derived from
Bankscopebased on the median data o f 25 banks across 7 countries inEast Asia, including Vietnam.




                                                      59

        Annex 4.4: Compliancewith FinancialIntermediaryLendingPolicies

                             World BankOperationalPolicy8.30

1.      The following table provides an overview o f the Third Rural Finance (RFIII)
project's compliance with the World Bank operational policies on financial intermediary
lending (FILs). The compliance assessment i s based on the main criteria set forth under
OP 8.30 and provides a brief explanationo fthejustification for rating the proposed RFIII
compliant with the policies.



               The Project supports one or more o fthe following
               Objectives:                                           investments inthe real sector -
               (a) supporting reformprograms inthe financial         capital investments by micro- and
               sector or relatedreal sectors;                         small enterprises (MSEs) inrural
                                                                     areas. It will also support private
               (b) financing real sector investmentneeds;            sector development as the

               (c) promoting private sector development;             borrowers will all be privately
                                                                     held, and it will encourage the
               (d) helping to stabilize, broaden, and increasethe     participating o f the private
               efficiency o f financial markets and their allocation  financial institutions. The project
               o f resources and services;                           will provide fundfor technical

               (e) promoting the development o f the participating   assistance and training to the PFIs.

               Financial Institutions (PFIs); and                    The project will also help to
                                                                     enhance and catalyze PFI term
               (0 supportingthe country's povertyreduction           lending to the MSEs inrural areas
               objectives.                                            on a commercial basis. Ultimately,
                                                                     the project will contribute to new
                                                                      investment and income generation
                                                                     by supportingbroad-based, private
                                                                      sector-led growth inrural areas.

 Interest      Bank funds are priced to be competitive with what      The h d s from the Bank will be
 Rates         the participating PFIs and their sub-borrowers         provided from the PFIs to the sub-
               would pay inthe market for similar money, taking      borrowers at hlly commercial
               into account, as relevant, maturities, risks, and     rates. The finds on-lends to the
               scarcity o f capital                                  PFIs from the APEX willbe based
                                                                      on marketrates, with an agreed
                                                                      formula with weighted deposit rate
                                                                      discussed between the World Bank
                                                                      and the key stakeholders in
                                                                     Vietnam.
 Directed      Bank-supported FILs also aim to remove or              The credit will focus on addressing
 Credit        substantially reduce the use of directed credits,     the impediment o f MSEs' access
               which are akin to interest rate subsidies, as they    to finance especially those private
               leadto resource allocation outside market              enterprises with less than 50
               mechanisms. A Bank FIL may support directed            employees, who generate most o f
               credit programs to promote sustained financing for     the employment but have most
               such sectors, provided the programs are                difficulty inaccess to finance. The
               accompanied by reforms to address the underlying       credit appraisal and on-lending
               institutional infrastructure problems and any market  terms will be done on a market-
               imperfections that inhibitthe market-based flow o f   basis and will promote increased



                                                   60

              credit to these sectors.                              term financing for these
                                                                    enterprises inthe rural economy
                                                                    by PFIs. The project will also
                                                                    have extensive assistance to help
                                                                    address the underlyingbarriers to
                                                                    finance for rural MSEs.

Subsidies    Insome cases (e.g., povertyreductionprograms),         There are no subsidies builtinto
              subsidies may be an appropriateuse o f public         the project.
              funds.

Accreditation The Bank requires an assurance that PFIs acting as    The project sets out standard
Criteria      on-lenders inFILSand other investment operations      financial performance benchmarks
              are viable institutions, having:                      for the APEX bank, as well as the

              (a) adequateprofitability, capital, andportfolio      PFIs to meet inorder to be

              quality, as c o n f i e d by financial statements     selected to participate inthe

              prepared and audited inaccordance with accounting     project. These benchmarks are

              and auditing principles acceptable to the Bank        structured to reflect the core areas
                                                                    o f a financial institution-
              (b) acceptable levels o floancollections;             management and corporate

              (c) appropriate capacity, including staffing, for     governance, asset quality, capital

              carrying out subproject appraisal (including          adequacy, liquidity,profitability,

              environmental assessment) and for supervising          and efficiency - and are primarily

              subproject implementation;                             aimed at setting a basic standard o f
                                                                    financial health and soundness for
              (d) capacity to mobilize domestic resources;          potential PFIs. Inaddition,
                                                                    provision i s made for those PFIs
              (e) adequate managerial autonomy and
              commercially oriented governance (particularly for     thatjoin the project and may for

              state-controlled PFIs);                                some reason not meet the criteria.
                                                                     These provisions include the
              (f) appropriateprudential policies, corporate          mandatory implementation o f an
              structure, andbusiness procedures.                     institutional development plan.

              Note: New and existing PFIs that do not meet all
              the accreditation criteriafor being intermediaries
              mayparticipate in an FIL ifthey agree to an
              institutional developmentplan that includes a set of
              time-bound monitorableperformance indicators
              andprovidesfor aperiodic review ofprogress.

Appraisal     The Bank's appraisal o f a proposed FIL:               The Project has taken all these

              (a) determines ifit will achieve the desired           appraisal elements into

              objectives with due regard to the sustainability o f   consideration, not only promotes

              the financial sector;                                  rural growth andbringeconomic
                                                                     benefit to the rural private
              (b) establishes the economic justification o fthe      enterprises, but also aims to help
              operation;                                             strengthening the APEX and PFIs

              (c) confirms, for a FILjustified by its poverty-       and support the broader financial

              reduction goals, that it is a practicable, cost-       sector reforminVietnam. The

              effective way o f achieving them;                      project builds ina process for the
                                                                     appraisal o f the APEX bank and
              (d) confirms the accreditation o fPFIs proposedfor     the PFIs at the initial accreditation
              inclusion; and                                         stage, as well as on an ongoing

              (e) ascertains that implementing the FIL i s unlikely  basis as the project is under

              to undermine the financial condition o f participating implementation.

              PFIs.




                                                     61

Use o f Funds FILSare usedto finance investments insubprojects          The funds will be used for
              for increased production o fgoods and services and        financing the financial and
             that meet eligibility and development criteria agreed environmentalvariable sub-
             withthe Bank.                                              projects inVietnam except the
                                                                        four cities inVietnam (Hanoi, Ho
                                                                        Chi MinCity, Danang and
                                                                        Haiphong) and sub-loans will be
                                                                        usedto finance capital investments
                                                                        inproductive assets andassociated
                                                                        working capital loans.
Monitoring    The FILhas effective monitoring and evaluation            The project will have an integrated
              (M&E)oftheproject's progress toward its                   set o f monitoring and evaluation
              objectives and development impact throughout the          indicators to report during the
              life o f the project. The variables for the PFIs          course o f Project implementation.
              include, inter alia, adequacy o f capital, quantity and   This will also include variables for
              quality o f earnings, quality o f assets, sufficiency o f the participating PFIs. The
              liquidity, extent ofsubsidydependence,                    accreditation criteria will represent
              effectiveness o fFIloanadministration, and                the basic framework for this FI
              adequacy and timeliness o fpreparationo f audited         monitoring. Inaddition, project-
              financial statements.                                     specific variables are also included
                                                                        into the M&Eprocess. The APEX
                                                                        will monitor the performance o f
                                                                        PFI and carry out the analysis and
                                                                        follow up on the IDP
                                                                        implementation on regular basis.




                                                   62

                                               Annex 5: ProjectCosts

                                 Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject

                              Table 1. Components ProjectCost Summary

Vietnam
Third Rural Finance Project
Components ProjectCostSummary                                                   (US$ '000)
                                                                      Local      Foreign      Total

A. IncreaseCapital Investmentsby Rural Enterprises                    175,000.0   75,000.0    250,000.0
B. IncreaseAccess to Microfinance in Rural Economy                     14,285.7                14,285.7
C. BuildInstitutionalCapacitiesand New Products
   1, Strengthening APEX Bank                                            409.7        865.9     1,275.6
   2. Building ParticipatingFinancialInstitutions                      2,575.7     5,033.4      7,609.0
   3. Expandinginto New Markets
      New Product Development                                             175.1    1,575.9      1,751.o
      New Customer Development                                            145.9       708.8       854.7
      New InstitutionDevelopment                                          160.4    1,447.3      1,607.7
      New Environmental Standards in Lending                               36.9       332.1       369.0
  SubtotalExpandinginto New Markets                                      518.3     4,064.1      4,582.4
SubtotalBuild InstitutionalCapacitiesand New Products                   3,503.6    9,963.4     13,467.0
Total BASELINECOSTS                                                   192,789.3   84,963.4    277,752.7
   PhysicalContingencies                                                  175.2       498.2       673.4
   Price Contingencies                                                   474.6        384.5       859.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                   193,439.2   85,846.0    279,285.1




                              Table 2. LegalCategoriesandIDA Funding


                                                                                   IDA
DisbursementCategory (US$ '000)
                                                                        Amount              %

RDF eligible sub-loans disbursed (component 1)                          175,000            100.0

MLF eligible sub-loans disbursed (component 2)                           10,000            100.0
IDA-term Capacity Building eligible expenditures and taxes
(component 3.A & 3.8, including Goods and Works, Consultant and
Training)                                                                10,000            100.0

Grant Capacity Building eligible expenditures and taxes (component
3.C, including Goods and Works, Consultant and Training)                  5,000            100.0




                                                        63

     I  ,  ,




     I




a
h

  I     U                     0
   8    .-0I:                 8
                              8
        .c1

        a
        C                w r
                         r    r




                              N
                              In
        -d
        I-"



                              *

        P)
        6
        N




        s        '   1 ' C QrN
                         m    a
                           d

        N




                 1 . r ' m m
                         r m   CQ
        F
        6                r a

        N




                              IC
        0
        6
        N




        m
        8
        N




Y
a       .-
        U
        C
0       a
!
t

      0
     r0
      N




      N




P
h

Y
v)

u
I;




3
a,

2 2                     2
hl3      zr:            hl
   3      3




I   I        1  I  2    mv!



I   I    r: t            o!
         3         2
          W    3W       W



22 "!
   3      h!             2
          W
          0    2mm   r:
                     W



22 2vl   2 2         2 2
          vl    c1
               m

I   I        I  I     1  ,


0                    m               vl
hl 2      2              W           hl



2  W      o\         P P             vl




I   I        I           3




I   I     W              N




W  m      m              N




W  m   b  m          h l h l h l h l -




I   I   I    I        I  I   I   I    I




                                       .I?
                                         U
                                       .I   c;'   c)

                                         b
                                         d  a     a4
                                                  a

                                            v1
                                            1
                                        I
                                               9 g
                                                 .I
                                                  E
                                         c)
                                         sd       5

                                         J4
                                        v1
                                         1     E d

                                                  0
%
t'      2                  c?    9
                           3     Q\               v
        3                  3
3       3                                         U


                           2 2                    -
 I       c!
        3                                         c
                                                  0



                           2 2
 I       I                                        0
                                                  C
                                                  U


c?                                                C
                           d
                           'c!
3                                2
\o      2m                                        .:
                           2 2
 I       I                                        .(
                                                  rU

2m       I                  I    I                U
                                                  :
                                                  U



m
m        0
         m                 N     hl




hl       N                 m     d




 I       3                 3     3




 I I     1     3    1    3    3    3    3    3




3 3      3 3        N 3    N     3   3    3




 I  I    I    3     1    3    3    3    3    3




3 3      1     3    m 1     I    I    I    I




                     G
                     h




                                                  k-
                                                  E
                                                  6
                                                  cc
                                                  sri


2                            2 2 :
W
v,



I                            I  I    I




2                            I  I   I


W




9                            I  I    I

W
3

N

z
3
N



I                            I  I    I




0
N



$ 5 5


I   I  I                     I    I    I




d d N       3  2  W     W    I    I    I  0



            3  2 2     2     I    I    I




            3  2 2 2         6 3 6




I   I  I     I  I   I   I    I    I    I




            8
            g  8
               g  E8 E8
            0  0




                     f
                     M




                     22
                     I!
                     do
                     0
                     0
                     3         B
                               t:
                     3
                     8
                               if
                               E8a  e

   3        9                                      9 9
            M                       z
   I4                                             -F -F
           \o
            ui




    I         I                       I              I   I




    I       v!                        I            3   3
           \o
            CI                                    ii
                                                   d d
           M




    I                                 I           2 2
                                                    00  00


   x                                z             2 2
   I4                                               d d




    I       I                         I              I   I




`?      0        m                                  0 0
e4      hl                          z               hl  hl



        5?        -
                                                    00  00
                  00                 d




 I       I                            I  I           I   I




        co                    I    1  I  I




                             I     I  I  I




3                          d - d -




 I       I         I        I      I  I  I    I  I   I   I




                         e
                0
                Y




                     MC
                     .I
                     a
                     .I
                     e
                     C
                     I

                     C
                     d
                     0
                     E;
                     CA
                     a

                                         -
                                          v;



                           2              I I


                             M


                             I            I  I




                             os   I

                           3 I-




I  I  I    a  I               I




g m  m  m    m       0           o  m
                                 In




                     I  I




                     ' N        "  2      I  I




I  I  I  I    I      I  I         I  I    b N




                b

2 2 2


  I  I




  I  I




  I  I




  I  I




  I  I




  I  I     m
           b



  I  I




  I  I




  d c l

                          Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements

                           Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject

1.       The credit would be made to the Socialist Republic o f Vietnam for on-lending to
BIDV. The Ministry o f Finance will then on-lend the h d s to BIDV based on an on-
lending agreement. BIDV would assume overall responsibility for project implementation.
BIDV will on-lend the proceeds to eligible PFIs based on the terms and conditions o f
Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) signed between BIDV and PFIs. The PFI, will, in
turn, extend sub-loans to eligible MSEs andhouseholds borrowers.

2.       BIDV has already established a Project Management Unit which is part o f the
BIDV's core transaction center. This PMUhas equippedwith committed and capable staff
andthey are the champion inachieving the Project development objectives and ensure the
compliance the IDA's safeguard policies.          The PMU has several units including
Accreditation Division in charge o f financial analysis o f the interested financial
institutions; Appraisal Division in charge o f eligibility o f sub-projects financed;
Environment Division incharge o f compliance o f the IDA's safeguard policy; Finance and
Accounting Division in charge of hnds flow and bookkeeping; Training Division
responsible for the training activities for boththe staff from PMU, BIDV and the PFIs; and
the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Division responsible for institutional strengthening
component and project reporting and evaluation activities.

3.       Project Operating Policies and Procedures. Under the proposed project BIDV
would develop its capabilities as the APEX bank. The credit operation would be carried
out on the basis o f policies andprocedures established ina Policy Manual (PM) for each o f
the Funds. The P Mwould beperiodically updated to reflect necessary policy changes. The
adoption and implementation o f the PM, satisfactory to IDA would be a condition o f
Credit effectiveness. The PM would include: interest rate structure and foreign exchange
coverage fee; PFIs accreditation criteria; eligibility criteria for subprojects financed; sub-
projects   appraisal procedures,      sub-project  review and disbursements;          sub-loan
rescheduling;   sub-loan maturities;     environmental protection;     and arrangement o f
monitoring and supervision; accounting and audit procedures. The PM would not be
revisedwithout prior consultationwith and approval o f IDA.




                                              74

           Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

                           FinancialManagementAssessment

                         Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject


1.       An assessment of the project's financial management arrangements was
conducted in October - November 2006, June 2007, September 2007, and during the
Appraisal mission in October 2007 and it i s concluded that with the completion o f the
Action Planas tabled inthis FinancialManagement Assessment, the Project will meet the
minimumrequirements o fthe Bank's OP/BP10.02.

2.       The Third Rural Finance Project (TRFP) i s a follow on project from the Second
Rural Finance Project (SRFP). The financial management (FM) arrangements o f the
SRFP are acceptable and the FMRisk is considered to be low as there are good financial
internal controls and systems operating together with timely reporting and auditing.
Unqualified audit reports have issued annually in relation to the SRFP. The TRFP's
financial management arrangements therefore are based on the current FM system o f
SRFP with some required improvements to overcome weaknesses identifiedinthe SRFP.

A.       CountryIssues

3.       Over the past several years, Vietnam has taken significant steps in improving
institutions, laws and regulations and practices to ensure greater financial accountability
and transparency in public expenditure. A large number o f recommendations o f the
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and PER-FA have been
implemented, or else are inthe process o f being implemented. For example, oversight by
the National Assembly and the provincial People's Councils over public finances has
been substantially increased. Audit reports on public expenditures are now published.
Public access to financial information continues to improve. Nevertheless, challenges
remain. Public sector accounts needto be made more timely, accurate and consistent with
international standards.Oversight by the National Assembly over public finances and the
effectiveness o f the State Audit o f Vietnam need further strengthening. Financial
accountability and transparency at the sub-national level also need to be fbrther
strengthened.

B.       RiskAnalysisandMitigatingMeasures

4.       The project inherent risk i s assessed as moderate primarily due to: (i) that
                                                                                  risks
funds may not be used for intended purposes especially under Component I11 -
Strengthening Institutional Capacity and Meeting Merging Demands for Rural Finance
Services - where many trainings, study tours and seminars will occur, (ii)        the large
number o f PFIs/MFIs' sub-branches at provincial, district and commune level
participating inthe project with the lack o fintegrated financial information system.




                                             75

 5.       The project control risk is assessed as moderate with strengths in the
 implementing agencies having prior experience with Bank funded operations and
 adequate financial management capacity and acceptable external audit arrangements. FM
 risks primarily relate to weaknesses identified through the SRFP in the areas o f (i)
 insufficient internal audit function especially at the PFIs/MFIs for project activities which
 result in weaknesses in sub-loan initiation and monitoring procedures; (ii)        risk o f errors
 andmistakes arising from the manual consolidation process o fquarterly financial reports
 for PFIs/MFIs' branches and sub-branches; and (iii)         inefficient expenditure verification
 procedures by State Treasury which may result in delay in disbursement for the USD5
 million grant component.

 6.       To mitigate the risks, more training and capacity building on internal audit
 objectives, functions, procedures, and best practices will be organized with a focus on
 governance and the Accounting Division o f BIDV- Transaction Center I11i s to more
 actively participate in supervisions o f PFIs/MFIs during project implementation. The
 PFIs/MFIs will be encouraged to consider integrating the project financial report format
 into their current accounting system. To avoid possible serious delays experienced in
 many projects due to cumbersome approval procedures, the MOF, SBV and BIDV will
 meet together regularly to work out an efficient mechanism to effectively use the fund for
 its intended purposes and the procedures will be documented in the Financial
 Management Manual for this project.



rRisk                    Risk        RiskMitigationMeasures Incorporated            RiskAfter
                         Rating      into Project Design                            Mitigation
                                                                                    Condition of
                                                                                    Negotiation,
                                                                                    Board or
                                                                                    Effectiveness
 Inherent Risk
 Country level: Overall  Moderate    Capacity buildinginMediumTerm Expenditure      Moderate
 Fiscal Environment                  Framework (MTEF), urbanplanning and
                                    budgeting, implementation and monitoring,
                                     commitment control and debt management;
 Entity andProject       Moderate    (i) financialauditbyexternalauditor,
                                       Annual                                       Moderate
 level: Large number o f             (ii) internalauditarrangements(iii)
                                        enhanced
 participating PFVMFI                enhanced oversight for sofi expenditures (iv)
 and significant                     smart procurement o f training services
 resources allocated for

                                                                                    Moderate

 1.Budgeting             Moderate                                                   L o w

                                    Training for PFVMFIon internal audit.           Moderate
 Weaknesses at                      Additional staffing for P M U so that PMUcan
 participating PFI/MFI              participate ininternal audit missions conducted
 could compromise                   bythe Appraisal divison o fthe APEX Bank.




                                               76

                                                       e of a specific system. To
                                                       nofFMRPFI/MFIwill




OverallControlRisk   IModerate   I1not negatethe needfor manualproduction and
                                   consolidation.                                IModerate

D.      Implementationarrangements

7.      As for the SRFP, the TRFP's APEX Bank (BIDV), will be responsible for the
project's overall financial management, and other project implementing institutions,
including PFIs/MFIs, SME Association and PCF Association, will be responsible for the
financial management o f the project resources to which they will have access under their
respective project components. All project implementing institutions will have adequate
financial management and accounting systems in place before they can use proceeds o f
the IDA Credit.

US$195million on-lending credit

8.      The IDA credit o f US$ 200 million would be made to the Socialist Republic o f
Vietnam for on-lending and grant to BIDV. Out o f this credit, the Ministry o f Finance
will on-lend the funds to BIDV based on an on-lending agreement for US$195 million,
including the Rural Development Fund and Micro-finance Loan Fund, and capacity
building for the financial institutions. BIDV will assume overall responsibility for
project implementation. BIDV will on-lend the proceeds to eligible PFIs based on the
terms and conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) signed between BIDV and
PFIs. The PFI, will inturn, extend sub-loans to eligible borrowers. In accordance with
Circular no. 108/2007/TT-BTC dated 7 September 2007 by MOF on Financial



                                              77

Management applicable to Official Development Assistance projects and programs to
support the implementation o f Decree no. 131/20O6/ND-CPy dated 9 November 2006, by
the Government on ODA Management, BIDV will be responsible for expenditure
verification (kiem soat chi) for bothcredit activities and non-credit components under the
on-lending agreement.

US$5million grantfrom state budget

9.      The remaining US$5 million (under Component 111: Strengthen Institutional
Capacities and Meet Emerging Demands for Rural Finance Services) will be allocated to
BIDV inthe form o f grant from the state budget. Inaccordance with the Official Letter
no. 1794/TTg-QHQT dated 22 November 2007 by the Prime Minister, the BIDV was
delegated to be the APEX Bank for the whole IDA funds including US$195 million on-
lending and US$5 million grant. SBV will be responsible to ensure that BIDV develops
an efficient mechanism for the fund management and coordination among concerned
parties for the implementationo fthe US$ 5 million grant. Inaccordance with Circular no.
108/2007/TT-BTC dated 7 September 2007 by MOF on Financial Management
applicable to Official Development Assistance projects and programs to support the
implementation o f Decree no. 131/2006/ND-CP on ODA Management, the State
Treasury will be responsible for expenditure verification for this grant from the state
budget, this provides an additional safeguard over the use o f the grant.

10.     Inlinewith this arrangement, MOFwill allocate thebudgetofthe US$5million
grant directly to BIDV. BIDV will be responsible for the implementation o f the grant
including budgeting, accounting, internal controls, reporting, and auditing. M O F will
approve total and annual financial budgets with the State Treasury or an organization
desinnated bv the MOF performing expenditure verification. SBV will approve total and
annual procurement and training plans and supervise BIDV's compliance with
government regulations duringtheir implementation o f the grant activities.

11.     This arrangement will exploit BIDV's experience and expertise in preparing
TORS for consultants and technical assistance, in designing training plans and in
supervisingtraining courses while still ensuring SBV's overall approval and oversight
hnction. It also ensures one focal point - BIDV - in budgeting, accounting, internal
controls, and reporting for the whole IDA Credit o f USD 200 million (including both the
on-lending and grant components). It will help ensure consistency and achievement of
project development objective and will facilitate supervisiono fproject implementation.

12.     To address concerns o f possible serious delays experienced in many projects due
to cumbersome approval procedures, and MOF, SBV and BIDV will work together to
develop efficient mechanisms to effectively use the grant finds for its intendedpurposes
and to avoid any implementation delays. BIDV i s exploring the possibility o f contracting
out provision o f training and other activities on a lump sum contract basis (rather than in
house organization) which would have the benefit o f reducing the number o f transactions
andtherefore quicken the expenditure verification processbythe State Treasury.




                                              78

 13.     Based on the agreement among MOF, SBV andBIDV for the US$5 million grant,
BIDV will develop a detailed implementation arrangements between BIDV and the
beneficiaries which are the SMEs Associations (for sub-component 111.1- enhance MSEs
capacity to access rural finance services), the PCF Association (for sub-component 111.2 -
enhance PCFs capacity inproviding rural finance services), and PFIs (for sub-component
111.3 - introduce new rural finance products and services). The current arrangements
proposed by BIDV i s that BIDV will be responsible for budgeting, implementing,
accounting, andreportingwith detailed tasks to include:
    -    Consolidating and developing work plans for all sub-components for Component
    -    111;
         Coordinating with the two associations and PFIs to implement work plans,
            including developing TORSfor consultants and selecting consultants/training

        -   providers;

    --      Monitoring consultants' work andtrainingresults;
         Receiving and evaluating consultants' finished work (reports, training plans, etc);
    --  Fundsmanagement for the Component;
         Recording and accounting, internal controls;
         Evaluatingresults achieved andconsolidating reports.

Regarding training, SBV will approve total and annual training plans. After that, BIDV
will implement the approved training plans with support from the participating
Associations.

14.     The implementation arrangements will be clearly documented in the
Implementation Guidelines for RFPIII and will be the binding document for all parties
participating inthe implementation o f the project.

E.      FMStaffing

15.     Currently there are two accountants in the Accounting Division o f Transaction
Centre 111, which i s part o f the BIDV's core transaction centre, who are directly
responsible for RFPII (one i s responsible for the credit component, the other for the
training component). Under TRFP, in addition to the on-lending credit and training
components o f US$195 million, the Transaction Centre will implement the US$5 million
grant for which State Treasury is the expenditure verification agency. However, it is
noted that in 2006 and 2007, the Accounting Division could not join the Appraisal
Division in supervision visits to PFIs due to their heavy workload (these supervisions
normally include staff from both the Appraisal Division and Accounting Division o f the
Transaction Centre 111).To ensure adequate financial management resource o f TRFP, the
TCIII has recently appointed one more accountant to ensure smooth FMoperations o f the
project and allow more time for project accountants to participate in internal audit visits
to PFIs organized by the Appraisal Division. The accounting and financial management
staff (including the ChiefAccountant) o f the project must be acceptable to the Bank.




                                             79

E.      Budgeting

16.     The TRFP's P M U at BIDV will be responsible for the total project budget
including all components (for both on-lending credit and grant). For Component Iand
Component 11, the annual budget will be prepared based on approved credit limits for
PFIs/MFIs. For Component I11- Strengthen Institutional Capacities and Meet Emerging
Demands for Rural Finance Services (US$15 million IDA financing) the annual budget
will be prepared based on actual need and annual training plans from BIDV, SMEs
Association, PCF Association andPFIs/MFIs.

17.     Annual training planswill cover the period from 1April to 31 March. This allows
PFIs to prepare their training planduring the first quarter o f the year when the work load
i s reduced. At the same time, it allows for some training to take place inthe beginning o f
the year when staff have more available time to attend. Current practice i s that the PMU
issues instruction to PFIs on the preparation o f training plan on an annual basis. The
P M U will issue a training plan template as a reference for all PFIs and include the
template inthe FMManual.

18.     For the US$10 million on-lending credit under Component I11 (sub-component
Strengthening the Participating Financial Institutions), PFIs will prepare their training
plans and submit them to the PMU, the management o f BIDV and WB for approval. The
P M U and BIDV's management will be responsible for providing assurance to SBV that
the training plans are suitable, SBV will not be involved in approving total and annual
training planso fPFIs.

19.     For the US$5 million grant, BIDV will prepare total and annual training plans in
coordination with the SMEs Association, the PCF Association, and PFIs. SBV will then
approve these total and annual training plans and supervise BIDV's compliance with
government regulations duringtheir implementationo f the grant activities.

20.     The budgeting procedures and approval processes are to be clearly documented in
TRFP's FinancialManagement Manual.

F.      Accountingpoliciesandprocedures

21.     Under SRFP, the accounting policies and procedures are governed by various
directives issued by MOF and SBV and are documented in the project's Financial
Management Manual (FMM). A revised FMM which i s part o f the Project Operational
Manual (POM) for TRFP will be prepared taking into account the TRFP requirements
and recommendations from the WB and the auditors for improvements in financial
management arrangements.

G.      InternalControls

22.     The current internal controls o f SRFP are operating effectively for the Credit
    Component and therefore, are proposed to be used for TRFP. However, the SRFP



                                             80

internal controls for the Institutional Strengthening Component have some weaknesses
and it is recommended that more detailed instructiodguidance with reference templates
(both training plan and expenditure acquittaVdisbursement dossier templates) for
Component I11be developed. The instructions/guidance will be incorporated into the
FMMinorder to makeone complete set ofguidance for PFIs.

23.     In accordance with Circular no. 108/2007/TT-BTC dated 7 September 2007 by
M O F on Financial Management applicable to Official Development Assistance projects
and programs to support the implementation o f Decree no. 131/2006/ND-CP on ODA
Management, the State Treasury will be responsible for expenditure verification for the
US$5 million grant from the state budget, while BIDV will be responsible for
expenditure verification (kiem soat chi) for both credit activities and non-credit
components under the on-lending agreement. The expenditure verification processes will
beclearly documented inthe FMM.

H.      FundsFlow andDisbursementArrangements

Funds Allocation

              Box 1. The tablebelowdetailsthe allocationof IDA Credit

                                                             Percentageof
                                      Amount of the        Expendituresto be
                                   FinancingAllocated          Financed
                 Categorv           (exDressed in SDR)    (inclusive of Taxes)

         (1) Sub-loans

             (a) under Part A of        117,700,000     100%of Sub-loanAmount
                 the Project                                   disbursed

             (b) underPartB of          6,380,000
                 the Project

         (2) Goods, consultants'                                 100%
         services, andtraining

           (a) under PartsC(1)          6,380,000
               and(2) ofthe
               Project

           (b) under PartC(3) of        3,240,000
               the Proiect
              Total Amount              127,700,000




                                            81

Fundsflow

24.    The credit will be made to the Socialist Republic o f Vietnam for on-lending to
BIDV which is acting as thewholesale institution (APEX Bank)o fthe project. The funds
flows for the project Under Component Iand I1will be: BIDV on-lends to PFIsMFIs in
accordance with subsidiary loan agreements between BIDV and PFIsMFIs. These loans
are called subsidiary loans. PFIsMFIs make loans to end-borrowers for sub-projects
which have three financing sources, the one from IDA Credit is called sub-loans which
finance up to 70% of the total estimated sub-project cost, 15% from PFIs and the rest
15% from the end-borrower's equity contribution. The current practice i s that PFIsMFIs
select from their loan portfolios sub-projects which meet RFP's requirements, present
these eligible sub-loans inthe Statement o f Expenditure (SOE) and ask for a subsidiary
loan for the total amount o f the SOE from BIDV. It is encouraged that PFIs actively seek
suitable end-borrowers andoffer them with sub-loans from the project source.

25.    Under the on-lending sub-component o f Component I11 - Build Institutional
Capacity and New Product Development, PFIs/MFIs submit payment dossiers for
approved trainings which are already carried out using their own sources of funds. Upon
checking and approval from the Project M&EDivision, Accounting Division, and PMU's
Director, funds will be disbursed from the DA to PFIsMFIs.

26.     For the US$5 million grant for Component 111, BIDV will submit payment
dossiers to State Treasury or a designated organization by M O F for expenditure
verification before submittingwithdrawal applications for DA.


27.     Disbursing from the Designated Account (DA) - DA (A) for Credit Line:

            1. PFIsMFIs consolidate the eligible sub-loans and transmit the request for
                payment to BIDV Appraisal Division;
           2. BIVD Appraisal Division reviews and approves eligibility o f the sub -
                projects andpasses to the Accounting Division;
           3. The Accounting Division checks the funds request and passes to the
                Director;
           4. Director approves and funds are then withdrawn from the designated
                account and transferred to the PFI/MFI.
           (A similar process for requesting payments for training from PFIMFIs i s
           followed except that the payment request does not pass through the Appraisal
           Division).

28.     Disbursingfrom the Designated Account (DA)-DA (B) for Grant:
           5. PFIsMFIs consolidate training payment requests and transmit the request
                for payment to BIDV;
           6. For all expenditure requests from the Grant DAYBIVD submits the request
                to the State Treasury for approval;



                                             82

             7. After approval i s received, the BND disburses finds from the Grant DA.

29.      Withdrawal Application Process:
             8. The BIDV prepares the withdrawal application and supporting documents
                 and sendto the World Bank;
             9. IDA disburses monies to the Designated Accounts.

Disbursement methods

30.      TFWP will use the following disbursement methods:
         Reimbursement - The Bank may reimburse the borrower for expenditures eligible
         for financing pursuant to the Credit Agreement ("eligible expenditures") that the
         borrower has prefinancedfrom its own resources.
         Advance - The Bank may advance loan proceeds into a designated account of the
         borrower to finance eligible expenditures as they are incurred and for which
         supporting documents will be provided at a later date.
    0    Direct Payment - The Bank may make payments, at the borrower's request,
         directly to a third party (e.g. supplier, contractor, and consultant) for eligible
         expenditures.

31.      The Disbursement Deadline Date will be four months after the Closing Date o f
theproject.

32.      The project will use traditional disbursement method. Withdrawals from the
Credit will be made on the basis o f Statements o f Expenditures for: (a) contracts with
consulting firms cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, (b) contracts with individual
consultant cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, (c) goods costing less than $100,000
equivalent per contract, (d) training, (f) sub-loans.     Documentation supporting SOE
disbursements will be kept by the BIDV for the life o f the project and one year after the
receipt o f the audit report for the last year in which the last disbursement was made.
These documents will be made available for review by the auditors and IDA supervision
missions. All other expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be submittedto IDA on
the basis o f full documentation.

Designated Accounts and Ceilings

33.      Two Designated Accounts (DAs) will be opened for the BND Transaction Centre
I11 who is responsible for the project funds in a commercial bank with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the IDA. One DA will be for the US$195 million on-lending
credit, the other DA for the US$5 million grant.

34.     The ceiling for the Credit DA (A) account (for disbursement category la,lb and
2a) will be US$20 million. The ceiling for the Grant DA (B) account (for disbursement
category 2b) will be US$500,000.




                                              83

35.    BIDV will report on the use o f the loan proceeds advanced to the DAs on a
regular basis, e.g. monthly.

Counterpart Funds

36.    BIDV and PFIs are assessed as having the capacity to mobilize the counterpart
funds needed for the project. No counterpart funds are required for the US$5 million
grant (100% financing by the grant).

I. FinancialReporting

37.     The current computerized accounting system and project management systems at
the Transaction Center I11 are operating effectively and therefore, it is proposed that
TRFP will continueto use these systems.

Under SRFP, the PMU's financial reports in accordance with the project FMM are
submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis and in a timely manner. Progress reports are
submitted as required for the Bank's missions. The financial reporting system o f the
project i s effective and will continue for TRFP. Quarterly financial report templates for
TRFP willbeagreeduponbetween the PMUandthe Bankbynegotiation.

38.     At PFIs, quarterlyfinancial reports consolidated from their branches are manuallv
prepared using excel. This practice creates more manual work for accountants in
preparing financial reports for the projects and increase risks o f errors and mistakes. PFIs
are encouraged to consider integrating the project report format into their current
accounting systembased on their own cost andbenefit analysis.

J.      InternalAudit

39.    Under SRFP, the Internal Audit Departments o f each PFIsMFIs is required to
perform internal audits o f loans financed by SRFP as part o f their internal audit on a
   semi-annual basis. Inaddition to this, the Appraisal Division and Accounting Division
   under Transaction Center I11are responsible for internal auditing and supervising o f
   all PFIs/MFIs every six months. These practices will be continuedinthe TRFP.

40.    Inorder to enhance the internal audit function at PFIs, more training on internal
audit objectives, functions, procedures, and best practices will be organized during
project implementation. It i s also recommended that the PFIs' internal audit annual work
plan and semi-annual internal audit reports be sent to the PMU o f BIDV for review and
approval. These requirements will be clearly documented in TRFP's Financial
Management Manual. The focus o f the enhanced internal audit function will be improved
governance.

K.     ExternalAudit




                                             84

41.     The BIVD will be responsible for preparation of annual financial statements for
the Project. The financial statements o f the project will be audited on an annual basis in
accordance with international auditing standards and terms o f reference acceptable to
IDA. The annual financial statements and audit report mustbe submittedto IDA within
six months of the end o f each fiscal year. The auditor who is acceptable to the IDA will
be required to express a single audit opinion covering the Project Accounts, the use o f
Statements o f Expenditures andthe Designated Account. A management letter addressing
any internal control weaknesses o f the implementingagencies (PMU andPFIsMFIs) will
also be providedbythe auditor together with the audit opinion report.

L.      FinancialManagementActionPlan


                    Actions                        Responsibility           Dateof
                                                                          Completion
 Appoint the project accounting staff with      I
 qualifications acceptable to the IDA                 PFIs/MFIs        ByAccreditation
I                                               I                     I
 Revise and adopt an acceptable Financial
 Management Manual, as part o f the overall          APEX Bank           Effectiveness
 Project OperationManual
 Develop training and capacity building
 programs including trainings on internal              APEX              3 months after
 audit                                            Bank/PFIs/MFIs         effectiveness


M.      SupervisionPlan

42.     Supervision of project financial management will be performed on a risk-based
approach at least once a year with field visits to the PMU and selected PFIs/MFIs to
review their financial management arrangements, funds flows, budgeting, accounting
records and internal controls.     The supervision will review the project's financial
management system, including but not limited to the operation of Designated Account,
Project accounts, internal control and financial reporting. The supervision visits to the
project implementing agencies will be supplemented by reviews of the internal control
supervision reports, review of the quarterly IFRs, and the annual audit reports of the
project. Financial management supervision will be conducted by IDA'S financial
management specialist(s).




                        Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements

                        Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject

A. General




                                            85

1.      Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated May
2004 (Revised October 2006) (Procurement Guidelines); and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'' dated May 2004 (Revised
October 2006) (Consultants Guidelines), and the provisions stipulated in the Financing
Agreement. The various items under different expenditure categories are described in
general below. For each contract to be financed in whole or in part by the Credit, the
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill
be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation
needs andimprovements ininstitutional capacity.

2.      Procurement of Works. No procurement o f works is foreseen in this
Component.

B.ProcurementArrangement for Component111:BuildInstitutionalCapacitiesandNew
Products(US$15 millionIDA Financing)


3.      Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this Component would include
two vehicles and office equipment for the project implementingunits. The procurement
willbe done usingthe Bank's sample documents for shopping.

4.      Procurement of non-consulting services. No procurement o f non-consulting
services i s foreseen inthis Component.

5.      Selection of Consultants. Consulting services foreseen in this Component
include major assignments such as development o f strategic business plan, strengthening
SME lending, business advisory services for SMEs, development o f new financial
services and technical assistance for strengthening institutional capacity o f participating
banks and other financial institutions. These major consulting services would be procured
using QCBS. Smaller assignments would be procured using CQS. Short lists o f
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may
be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f
paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. The most updated version o f the Bank's
Standard Request for Proposals will be mandatory to hire consulting firms for contracts
estimated at more thanUSD 200,000 per contract financedbythe IDA Credit.

6.      Operating Costs. No operating costs which would be financed by this
Component.

7.      Others. Some in-country training activities such as workshops and seminars are
foreseen inthis Component.




                                            86

8.       The Bank's ProcurementPrior-reviewRequirements. The Bankwill conduct
prior review of procurement documents and actions, in accordance with the Procurement
Guidelines and Consultants Guidelines, as follows:
0     Procurement plans. The Bank shall review the procurement arrangements proposed
      by the Borrower, including contract packaging, applicable procedures and
      scheduling o f the procurement process.
0      Goods. Each contract estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more; and all contracts procured
       through the Direct Contracting method shall be subject to the Bank's prior-review.
0     Consulting services. All contracts that exceed US$ 100,000 per contract for firms
      andUS$ 50,000 per contract for individuals; and all contracts procured on the basis
      o f Single Source Selection shall be subject to the Bank's prior-review.

9.       These two Components will provide sub-loans to end-borrowers, being rural
enterprises or households, through PFIs. The IDA Credit will finance up to 70% o f each

C. ProcurementArrangementfor ComponentI:IncreaseCapitalInvestmentbyRural
Enterprises  -RuralDevelopmentFund(US$175
I1:IncreaseAccess to Microfinanceinthe RuralEconomy-MicrofinanceLoanFund(US$
                                                    millionIDA financing); and Component

10 millionIDA Financing)
10.      Sub-project cost, and the rest will be financed by the PFI and the contribution
from each end-borrower. These two Components are demand-driven; any goods, civil
works or services that meet the Project's requirements can be considered to be financed
out o f these two Components. The ceiling amount for a sub-loan i s US$500 in
Component I1but there i s no limit for sub-loans inComponent I.

11.       Goods and works estimated to cost US$l,OOO,OOO           or more per contract will be
procured in accordance with the International Competitive Biddingprocedures specified
in Section I1of the Procurement Guidelines. Domestic preferences in accordance with
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 o f the Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall
apply to goods manufactured inthe territory o f Vietnam. All goods and works contracts
estimated to cost US$l,OOO,OOO or more per contract shall be subject to the Bank's prior-
review in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement
Guidelines.

12.      Goods and works estimated to cost less than US$l,OOO,OOO per contract will be
purchased at a reasonable price following the established private sector/commercial
practices. Other factors should also be taken into account such as: (i)     inthe caseofgoods,
timely delivery and efficiency and reliability o fthe goods andavailability o fmaintenance
facilities and spare parts; and (ii)in the case o f works, the technical quality and the
competitive cost. All goods andworks contracts estimated to cost less than US$l,OOO,OOO
per contract shall be subject to the Bank's post-review in accordance with paragraph 5 o f
Appendix 1to the Procurement Guidelines.
13.      For small consulting services contracts (i,e,, below VND500 million or
US$30,000 equivalent), single source selection (but usually based on a comparison of
qualifications o f several candidates or previous experience with the firm) would be used
(to certain extent, this procedure is similar to the Bank's CQS method). For larger



                                              87

contracts, consultants would be selected through a competitive process similar to the
Bank's QCBS or LCS methods. All consulting services contracts under these two
Components will be subject to the Bank's post-review in accordance with para 5 o f
Appendix 1to the Consultants Guidelines.

14.     The list o f items to be procured and estimated cost o f those items under the sub-
loans larger than $100,000 will be specified in the sub-loan proposal which will be
reviewed by the respective PFI. For sub-loans which contain contracts larger than
US$l,OOO,OOO/contract, in addition to review by the respective PFI and the wholesale
bank BIDV, sub-loan proposals andthus the procurement plans o f the sub-loans will be
subject to prior-review by the Bank.

15.     Procurement under these two Components will be carried out by end-borrowers
(rural enterprises and households). PFIs will be primarily responsible for monitoring the
adherence to sub-loan proposals and procurement plans by end-borrowers. The PMU
under the wholesale bank BIDV will be responsible for provide training on the Bank's
procurement procedures to end-borrowers who have contracts o f more than
US$l,OOO,OOO per contract.

D. Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

16.     Procurement process will be managed by the Project Management Unit (PMU)
established under the wholesale bank.

17.     An assessment o f the capacity o f the PMUto implement procurement actions for
the project has been carried out by Thang Chien Nguyen, Senior Procurement Specialist
on August 22 and October 11, 2007. The assessment reviewed the organizational
structure for implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff
responsible for procurement.

18.     The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation o f the
project have been identified and include (i) potential understaffing since the current PMU
procurement staff i s part-time with inadequate capacity for evaluation o f major
consulting services; and (ii)  the PMU to be established under other PFIs may not have
adequate capacity to support the procurement o f their respective components. The main
corrective measures which have been agreed include:

    -- Appoint other key PMUstaffto help the procurement officer
       World Bank Workshop on procurement and selection of consultants (completed in

    -- June 2007)
       Procurement training at project launch.
   -   Ad hoc training on ICB and QCBS for the PMUo fBIDV andPFIs.
       The Bankprocurement supervisionand technical assistance.

19.    Theoverall project risk for procurement is medium.




                                             88

E. ProcurementPlan

20.     The Borrower, at pre-appraisal inAugust 2007, developed a procurementplanfor
Component I11which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been
updatedduring the appraisal on October 11, 2007 and is available at the PMU Office,
Vincom Tower A, 191 Ba Trieu Hanoi. It will also be available inthe project's database
and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement
with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation
needs andimprovements ininstitutional capacity.

F. FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

21.     Inadditionto the prior reviewsupervision to becarried out from Bankoffices, the
capacity assessment of the P M U has recommended annual supervision missions to visit
the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.

G. Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving InternationalCompetition
under ComponentI11

22.     Goods, Works, andNonConsultingServices

(a) List of contract packages to be procured following ICB and direct contracting:

No ICB or direct contractingprocurements are foreseen inthe project.

(b) ICB contracts estimated to cost above US$ 100,000 per contract and all direct
contracting if any would be identified at later stage will be subject to prior review by the
Bank.

23.     ConsultingServices

    (a)     List o fconsulting assignments with short-list o finternational firms.

USD1,000




                                             89

I  l    l                         2                   I    3    l   4     1            I               I   '      I
                                                                           BankReview      Expected
 Ref No.               Descriptionof Assignment        Estimated Selection
                                                        Cost     Method    (PriodPost)  Submission Date
                                                                                          Proposals      Comments

   1     Strategic business pian and iDP                   240.0  QCBS     Prior review   2008-2009

   2     CreditAppraisal                                   108.0  CQS      Prior review   2008-2009

   3     Credit Risk Management                            144.0  CQS      Priorreview    2008-2009
   4     Othercore bankingoperations                              CQS      Priorreview
        I                                             I    162.0i         I            I  2008-2009    I
   5    IProject Audit                                I    125.01 LCS     IPostreview  I 2008-2012     I
   6    IBusiness advisoryservices o SME borrowers    I    840.01 QCBS    IPriorreview I  2008-2009    I
   7     institutionalstrengthening                        340.0  QCBS     Prior review   2008-2009

   8     StrengtheningVietnam Association of PCFs          600.0  QCBS     Prior review   2008-2009

   9     improving supervisionby the SBV                   160.0  CQS      Prior review   2008-2009

  10     Supportingimplementationof MLF operations         160.0  CQS      Prior review   2008-2009
  11     introducingcash-flowbased lending techniques      600.0  QCBS     Prior review   2008-2009

  12     Developingagriculturalinsurance products          380.0  QCBS     Prior review   2008-2009

  13     Generatingnew long-termsaving products            380.0  QCBS     Prior review   2008-2009



(b) Consultancy services estimatedto cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals and all single source selection of consultants will be subject to
prior reviewby the Bank.

(c) Short lists composedentirely o fnational consultants: Short lists of consultants for
services estimatedto cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be
composedentirely o fnational consultantsinaccordancewith the provisions ofparagraph
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.




                                                             90

                        Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis

                          Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject

1.       Because this i s a credit project, with no advanced determination o f the precise
investments to be made, or even the sub-sectors likely to be involved, it i s only possible
to estimate the project's economic impact in a very general way. There are a number o f
key factors that indicate that the project would be likely to have a sound economic
impact. These are set out below.

2.       Contribution to Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction. Vietnam GDP per
capital has increased at about 6.9% per year in real terms. Although the share o f the
population living below the poverty line has fallen dramatically, the remaining areas o f
poverty are concentrated inrural areas. There i s a widening gap between rural andurban
wealth and incomes, which could have longer term social and political consequences.
While progress on reducingpoverty has been impressive, rural poor are still vulnerable to
both internal and external shocks. The project would primarily focus the accumulationof
productive assets in rural areas and on the creation o f employment opportunities. This
will be achieved primarily through financing medium and long term credit to micro,
small and mediumenterprises (MSMEs).           MSMEshavebeenshown inRF1 and RFIIto
generate high levels o f employment per dollar o f funds invested. The project will also
finance individual households, which would use the resources to enhance their
productivity andincomes.

3.       Contribution to the Long Term Investment Need o f Vietnam. Vietnam i s going
through a period o f rapid growth with targeting investment levels at 30% o f GDP for the
economy. The Project will contribute to the effective provision o f these resources and in
particular term resources, which at present are not easily mobilized in the banking
system.

4.       Applicable Rates o f Return. The Access to Credit Component would finance
economically and financially viable investments inrural areas, including both agricultural
and other types o f activities. The use o f finds will be drivenbydemand. There would be
no ex-ante allocation by crop, type o f industry or individual project. As a result, there
can be no ex ante estimate o f the economic or financial rate o f return for individual sub-
project or for the project as a whole. However, the eligibility criteria for sub-project
financing would be set so that project with an expected Economic Rates o f Return (ERR)
o f less that 15% would not be financed. Therefore the ERR for the whole project should
be in excess o f 15%. For sub-projects with sub-loans greater that US$200,000 an ex-
ante economic analysis will be required and a minimumERR o f 15 % will be required.
For sub-projects with sub-loans between US$15,000 and US$200,000 only an ex-ante
financial rate o freturnwill be calculated, and a 15% FRRwill be required.

5.       Market interventions in Vietnam have largely been dismantled and the policy
induceddivergence between economic and financial values is not presently substantive.
Because the shadow wage rate below the financial wage rate inrural areas for most of the


                                               91

year, it is likely that ERRSwill be higher thanFRR. Thus, for smaller projects, the use o f
a minimum FRR o f 15 % will largely eliminate any projects with an ERR o f less than
15%. There still remain, however, some sub-sectors where there are considerable prices
distortions (eg sugar) that could result in projects that are financially viable but not
economically viable. To avoid the financing o f uneconomic projects, a negative list, to
be finalized at negotiations, would be drawn up and those sub-sectors would not be
eligible for financing under the project. In addition, projects that result in significant
negative environmental externalities would be automatically ineligible as a result o f the
implementation o f environmental safeguards.

6.      Increasingthe Efficiency of Bank Intermediation. Investments under this project
related to the bank capacity building and new product development would result inbroad
based economic benefits to the economy through a long term reduction in the cost o f
intermediation. However, these benefits are too disbursed andtoo difficult to attribute to
these specific investments.




                                            92

                            Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues

                          Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject

A.      Summary

1.      This Project has a safeguards classification o f FI (Financial Intermediary).     As
with all FI classified projects, exact investments to be carried out under the Project
cannot be identified a priori, but are selected on a competitive basis during the course o f
project implementation. By design, the project will not finance sub-projects that would
trigger i)natural habitats; ii)involuntary resettlement; iii)forests; iv) cultural physical
resources andv) safety o f dams, vi) disputed areas; or vii) international waterways. Sub-
projects that would trigger these safeguards policies are included in the negative list o f
sub-projects that may not be financed under the Project.           The indigenous people
safeguard policy is not triggered. The only safeguard policies that are triggered by this
project are the environmental assessment and pest management safeguards. Appraisal o f
the projects compliance with IDA'Senvironmental assessment and pest management
safeguard policies i s discussed indetailed below.

2.      Inorder to anticipate and deal with any environmental issues that may arise, the
following measures have been designed into the project: (i)a fully staffed and trained
environmental unit has been established in BIDV, TC3, the management unit for the
project; ii)an environmental guideline (manual) has been prepared;          iii)restrictions,
including a negative list o f sub-projects with potentially high risks; iv) an independent
audit o f environmental procedures will be carried out at mid-term and at the end o f the
project, v) there will be ongoing training for BIDV staff, and PFIs in the area o f
environmental appraisal and monitoring; vi) consultation with potential beneficiary
groups or their representatives.

3.      Based on the experience o f RF 11, the environmental risk associated with this
project would be low. As with RFII, most o f the sub-borrowers under RFIII would be
rural individuals with an average loan size o f US$3,000 and small proportion o f small
rural-based entrepreneurs with the sub-loans estimated to average about US$20,000.
Given most o f these sub-projects would be involved in agricultural production,
processing, and trading services in rural economies, and most o f these sub-projects are
managed within households or small enterprises, it i s very likelythat most o fthem would
have no negative environmental impact.         Under RFII, all sub-projects received an
environmental screening, and are classifiedby risk category. On this basis, 70 % o f were
exempted from any environmental procedures and 29 % required an Environmental
Compliance Commitment submitted by the borrower to the PFI. Only 1 % o f projects
were required to undergo a limited environmental assessment to be cleared by provincial
DONREs. None o f the sub-projects under RFIIwere requiredto have a full EIA under
Vietnamese environmental regulations. The same pattern o f low environmental risk is
expected under RFIII.

4.     As part o fthe preappraisal process for RF111,the following actions were taken. i)
existing national regulations were reviewed to determine their compatibility with IDA'S


                                             93

environmental safeguards; ii)the performance o f environmental monitoring under RFII
was reviewed and the lessons learned have been incorporated into the environmental
compliance procedures for RFIII; (iiii)  the draft environmental guidelines for RFIII and
implementationresponsibilitieswere reviewed and cleared by IDA..

B.       Appraisal of ExistingLegal Framework and Institutions for Environmental
Protection

The New Laws on EnvironmentalProtectioneffectivesince July 1,2006

5.       New laws on environmental protection effect on July 1, 2006, and were followed
up in September by a new Government Degree and Circular providing detail
implementation guidance (Degree 80/2006/ND-CP and Circular 08/2006/TT-BTNMT).
The major changes in resulting from this new law and degree are i)the environmental
management responsibilityhas been fbrther decentralized to line ministries and to district
& commune level in the MONRE/DONRE system; ii)a much more detailed project
environmental classification, with clear guidelines on which categories are subject to
different environmental review procedures (full EIA, Environmental Registration,
Environmental Compliance Commitment); and iii)an explicit requirement o f public
consultation and document disclosure during the environmental assessment process.
These improvements close the main gaps that existed in the old laws between the WB
environmental safeguards and Government environmentalpolicies.

6.       This new decree provides good platfonn for updating the current project
environmental guideline. The updated environmental guidelines for this project reflects
the changes in the regulations including i)a different sub-project classification system
matching those o f the new regulations; and ii)institutional arrangements for increased
coordination between PFI's credit officers and local government environmental bodies in
sub-project appraisal and supervision; iii)procedures for increased public consultation.

C.       Appraisal of DONREs Capacity for Environmental Assessment and
Licensing

7.       Based on the experience under RFII, provincial level DONRE offices have
demonstrated their capacity to carry out environmental assessments and approvals for the
limited number o f Category B sub-projects (those requiring limited environmental
assessments) that were financed.       The primary weakness o f the provincial DONRE
system inthe past i s that it has been under staffed, on average each province has about 4-
5 staff looking after all the environmental aspects o f the whole province, so they can only
focus on major environmental hotspots or big investment projects which have high
environmental risks.     The next level o f priority i s to issue environmental permits or
licenses.   They tend to place a lower priority on monitoring o f post licensing
environmental compliance for smaller projects such as those financed under this project.
One o f the objectives o f the new environmental regulations i s to firther decentralize
environmental management to district and commune levels, thus reducing the workload
o f provincial DONRE and mobilizing more humanresources at grass-root level. This i s



                                             94

expected to increase the coverage o f the environmental management activities in the
provinces, particularly the monitoring o f post licensing monitoring o f environmental
compliance.

D.      Performanceof EnvironmentalMonitoringunderRF11.

8.      Inorder to understand the current status of the environmental monitoring system
to be used under RFIII we provide a brief summary of the performance o f the
environmentalmonitoring system under RFII.

9.      The RFII Project i s recognized as a first banking sector project in Vietnam that
integrates environmental appraisal and monitoring into the small-scale credit activities.
As a result o f the RFII project, all PFIs are aware o f the importance o f environmental
safeguards compliance by sub-projects.         There i s also a strong interest from MPI,
MONRE and SBV to disseminate the good practices o f RFII and encourage the financial
sector to adopt the same approach beyond the project. Incorporating environmental
safeguards into the appraisal o f projects has been an important part o f the institutional
capacity buildingactivities supported byRFII.

10.    The Environmental Guideline was cleared by IDA and issued in March 2004,
shortly after project effectiveness.   This environmental guideline was based on the
environmental law inplace at that time, Circular 490/1998/TT-BKHCNMT (Guidance on
SettingUp and Appraising the Environmental Impact Assessment Report for Investment
Projects) that the Government issuedin 1998, and on the Bank's safeguard policies. The
Environmental Management Guideline provides a screening mechanism, environmental
review procedures, supervision and enforcement requirements, and a list o f sub-projects
not eligible for funding. Underthis environmental guideline, all sub-projects are screened
and classified into three groups, based on their environmental risk. Category C sub-
projects are exempt from government environmental clearance.          Within the Project,
Category C sub-projects are further classified into those with no environmental risk that
are exempt from any environmental requirements, and those that have low environmental
risk.  For those sub-projects that have low environmental risk, the sub-borrower i s
required to sign an Environmental Compliance Commitment with the PFI verifying
familiarity with the environmental impacts o f the sub-project and with the appropriate
mitigation measures. Category B sub-projects are subject to a limited environmental
assessment to be cleared by provincial DONREs. Category A sub-projects are those that
have high environmental risk are subject to a full environmental impact assessment and
clearance by the relevant government agencies.

11.    All o fparticipatingPFIs are requiredto implement the environmental guidelines,
and as a result all sub-projects applying for funds are screened on environmental aspects.
The average size o f a RDF I1sub-project was US$ 3,780, the average size o f a RDF I1
sub-loan was about US$ 2,000. Dividing by economic sectors, these financed sub-
projects include; livestock raising (20.7%); trade & service (28.7%); aquacultures (7.6
%); processing (7.5%); small craft production (2.4%); cultivation (17.2%); and others
(14.9%). Between March 2004, when the project environmental guideline was put into



                                             95

effect, and December 2006, 81,587 sub-projects were financed. Of these there were
56,886 (70%) were Category C sub-projects that were exempt from any environmental
procedures,   24,145   (29%)    were Category C sub-projects which required an
`%Environment Compliance Commitment" with PFIs. There were 556 (1%) Category B
sub-projects that required a limited environmental assessment and review and clearance
by provincial DONREs. O f the 556 Category B sub-projects, 190 were for agricultural
cultivation, 136 for animal husbandry, 116 for processing, 26 for fisheries and 88 for
other sectors. None o f the sub-projects under RFII were classified as Category A, which
would haverequired a full environmentalreview cleared by MONRE and/or the IDA.

12.     Since the WIII project is likely to have the same lending patterns as RFII, it i s
also expected to have a similar environmental risk profile. With the expectation that only
1 % o f the sub-projects would be classified as Category B and very few or no sub-
projects classified as Category A the Project would be considered to have a low
underlying environmental risk (Le. the type o f projects being financed have a low
environmental risk).     The other source o f environmental risk for the project i s
environmental compliance risk. Below, we examine the performance o f RF I1 on
environmentalcompliance.

13.     Sub-projects classified as Category C and requiring a signed environmental
compliance commitment with PFIs are primarily in the primary agriculture sector
(agriculture cultivation, livestock raising, aquaculture farming, agricultural product
processing) and managed by households.         For these subprojects the environmental
compliance is subject to the supervision o f PFI's credit officers. Based on field visits and
direct interviews with sub-project borrowers, the assessment is that the environmental
compliance in this group is moderately satisfactory. There i s increasing awareness in
rural areas interms o f applying good production methods as a result o f good agricultural
andaquaculture extension services beingprovided inalmost all rural areas inVietnam.

14.     Subprojects classified as Category B and subject to limited environmental review
and clearance by DONRE are mainly in small rural based industrial production &
processing (craft metal melting, paper pulp recycling, plastic recycling, foodstuff
processing. According to environmental regulations these sub-projects are also subject to
regular supervision by provincial DONRE during implementation. Most o f these projects
are for expansion o f production or increasing productivity. N o issues were identified in
the area o f natural habitat encroachment or biodiversity. Most o f the environmental
certifications issued were related to liquid & solid waste control and disposal, air
emission control, healthprotectionmeasures for laborers. Fieldvisits to these sub-project
sites during supervision identified some specific cases o f non-compliance with
environmental certificates issued by DONRE. Actions were taken to correct these
specific cases, and in one case the sub-loan was recalled. In addition, environmental
audits were introduced to monitor compliance more closely. These environmental audits
have been structured to sample a higherproportion o f Category B sub-projects.

15.     Lending to villages identified as "environmental hotspots" by DONREs are
restricted. Environmental hotspots are villages and towns that have high concentrations



                                            96

o f craft production such as craft paper recycling, craft plastic & metals melting, textile
production with manual dyeing, using outdated equipment and without any treatment
facilities. PFIs are restricted from making sub-loans for projects in environmental hot-
spots, unless it can be demonstrated that the sub-loan i s used to improve technology
which help to minimize and control emissions. In addition to restrictions on lending for
environmentalhot-spots, the environmentalguidelines have a clearly definednegative list
o f sub-project types that cannot be financed under the Project.               During the
implementation o f RFII no violation o f the environmental hot-spot or negative list
restrictions have been identified.

16.      In order to monitor environmental compliance under RFII, project officers are
required to monitor the performance o f PFIs in following the environmental procedures
established in the guidelines.     Periodic checks are also carried out by IDA during
supervision field visits. In addition the project has financed an environmental audit at
mid-termand will finance another audit at project completion. The mid-term project
audit will be based on a stratified random sample o f about 600 observations.          The
stratified random sample will ensure higher sampling rates for sub-projects in highrisk
categories (Categories A and B) and will also ensure adequate sample coverage for all
banks. The idea o f environmental audits is new to Vietnam, so this exercise, which is
being carried out by local institutes i s important for knowledgetransfer.

17.      Insummary, the risk resulting from the types ofprojects financed under RF I1is
low. The mechanisms used to restrict financing o f sub-projects with high environmental
risk have worked well. These include a well documented environmental manual, which
includes a negative list o f high risk project types and restrictions on lending to
environmental hot-spots.     The key area for attention under RF I11 i s on ensuring
environmental compliance o f approved Category B projects. This will be best achieved
through increased training,       monitoring and environmental audits.           The key
recommendations for RFIIIbased on the performance o f RFIIare:

    Prepare a revised environmental guideline for RFIII, incorporating the new
    regulations passed in2006 and add the Pest Management Plan
    Prepare and disseminate pamphlets regarding environment compliance to the end-
    borrowers
    Environmental training should be extended to include all members o f the
    Environmental Division (ED) o f the PMU; related BIDV and PFI staff, including
    those inthe provincial and district branches, as well as associated DONRE staff.
    The environmental training program for PFI management and their credit officers
    administered through RF I11 should be upgraded and integrated into a national
    environmental capacity building initiative. Training o f trainers could be administered
    at the provincial level by appropriate Vietnamese environmental teaching and
    research institutions.
    RFIII should retain the same restrictions on lending in areas classified as
    environmental hot-spots and should retain an updated negative list o f environmentally
    riskyprojects.




                                              97

     A hll environmental audit will be carried out at mid-term and at the end o f the
     project period. This audit will place a heavier weighting on the sampling o f higher
     riskprojects, such asprojectscategorized as Category B.

E.      AppraisalofEnvironmentaland Social SafeguardArrangementsfor RFIII

18.     This Project has a safeguards classification o f FI (Financial Intermediary).   As
with all FI classified projects, exact investments to be carried out under the Project
cannot be identified a priori, but are selected on a competitive basis during the course o f
project implementation. Since this i s a follow-on operation from the Rural Finance I1
project the institutional arrangements and procedures for managing environmental and
social safeguards are already inplace. These will be upgrades underRFIII.

19.     Environment Compliance Unit in BIDV. The project management unit in BIDV
TC3 already has an established environment unit staffed with specialists assigned to
monitoring environmental compliance under RFII. This unit will continue to be
responsible for managing compliance with environmental safeguards under RFIII. The
unithas one full time environmental technical specialist on staff andhas trained its other
staff on issues related to environmental compliance and monitoring.         There i s also
sufficient environmental consultant capacity in Vietnam to carry out independent
environmental audits o f sub-projects.

20.      Consultation during; Preparation. A workshop was held as part o f the mid-term
review for RFIIto review the environmentalmonitoring system. This workshop included
representatives o f government,       academic institutions,   and NGOs involved in
environmental issues and also included PFIs. The workshop was based on a review o f
the environmental management system under the project and sought feedback from the
broader community on the how the system could be improved. Feedback from this
workshop has been incorporated into the revised environmental guidelines. Since this
project is a financial intermediary project it does not identify any sub-projects before
implementation. Any public consultation on individual projects will be done during
implementation. Requirements for public consultation are included in the new law and
regulations for environmental management.

21.     Environmental Guidelines. An environmentalprocedure manual has already been
prepared entitled "Guidelines o f Environment Impact Assessment and Monitoring for
Subprojects Financed RFII."          This guideline includes procedures for appraisal,
evaluation and monitoring o f compliance with environmental assessment and pest
management safeguards. These environmental compliance procedures will be reviewed
at least once a year inthe course o f IDA'S supervision cycle. The procedures will also be
updated on the basis o f lessons learned from periodic environmental audits (discussed
below).

22.     Pest Management Plan. The Pest Management Plan for the project will be a part
o f the environmental guidelines. Project sub-loan funds may be used for the purchase o f
fertilizers by small-scale farmers. Since the pesticide purchases under the project will be



                                             98

limited to small amounts o f pesticide for on farm use, purchased on a commercial basis
from local suppliers.     The PMO will produce a pamphlet that will include lists o f
pesticides that not eligible for financing under the project (the negative list), it will also
include list o f pesticides in other categories and instructions for their safe use. This
pamphlet will be distributed by PFIs to all sub-borrowers who could potentially use the
sub-loan for the purchase o f pesticides. Monitoring o f pesticide use will be part o f the
regular environmentalmonitoring and audit.

23.     Classification System for Sub-project Tmes.           The updated environmental
guidelines will include lists o f sub-project types typically found in each environmental
risk category. The environmental risk categories used would match those in the new
environmental law and regulation.

24.     Negative List o f Environmentally and Socially Sensitive Sub-Projects.            The
Project's environmental guidelines include a list o f types o f subprojects that would be
precluded from borrowing. This would exclude financing for any subprojects i)that
would destroy natural habitats; ii)that involve forest extraction ,iii)that could damage
physical cultural resources o f archaeological, paleontological, historical, architectural,
religious, aesthetic, or other cultural significance, iv) involve the construction o f dams
higher than 18 meters; v) subprojects in disputed areas and vi) international waterways.
In addition, the guideline includes list of ineligible subprojects which have a) Fishing
methods that result inover fishing or are bannedinVietnam b) that result inlanderosion;
land slides, or destroy wetlands or mangroves. c) the location where determined by the
Government as environment-sensitive d) sub-projects that would trigger the pesticides
safeguards by purchasing pesticides classified by WHO as Class 1A or lB, or the use o f
Class 2 pesticides by unqualified individuals. The list o f pesticides banned in Vietnam
and WHO'S "Recommended Classification of Pesticides by Hazard and Guidelines to
Classification" (IOMC, 2000-2002) will be attached to the Guidelines

25.     Restricted Sub-Proiects.      The Project's environmental guidelines restrict the
financing o f projects in villages identified as environmental hot-spots, unless the
financing i s used for installing clean technologies approved by the Government.

26.     Environmental Audits. An environmental audit was completed in July o f 2007
for the on-going Second Rural Finance Project. The environmental audit schedule will be
applied out under the RF I11Project, at mid-termand the end o fthe project.

27.     Environmental Training Proaam. The environmental training program for PFI
management and their credit officers administered through RF I11will be upgraded and
integrated into a national environmental capacity building initiative. Training o f trainers
would be administered at the provincial level by appropriate Vietnamese environmental
teaching and research institutions. Environmental training would include all members o f
the Environmental Division (ED) o f the PMU, related BIDV and PFI staff, including
those inthe provincial and district branches. Periodic workshops and seminars would be
held by the Project to promote knowledge sharing across regions and between PFIs.




                                              99

These workshops could also be used to promote the importance of environmentally
responsible lending by commercial banks.




                                        100

                     Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision

                          Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject

                                                 Planned           Actual
PCNreview                                       11/06/2006        11/08/2006
InitialPID to PIC                               11/20/2006        11/20/2006
Initial ISDS to PIC                             11/20/2006        11/20/2006
Appraisal                                       10/10/2007        10/02/2007
Negotiations                                   01/20/2008
Board/RVP approval                              0312812008
Planned date of effectiveness                    612812008
Planneddate of mid-termreview                   6/28/2011
Planned closing date                           06/28/2014

1. Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparationofthe project:

The StateBank ofVietnam
49 Ly Thai To
Hanoi, Vietnam
Tel: 84 4 9343 361; Fax: 84 4 825 0612
Email: fdsbv@fpt.vn

2. Bankstaffand consultantswho worked on the project included:

Name                                         Title                 Unit
Xiaolan Wang                          Task Team Leader           EASRE
Iain Shuker                      LeadAgricultural Economist      EASRE
James Seward                      Financial Sector Specialist     EASFP
The DzungNguyen                       Operations Officer         EACVF
James Lacey                       Senior Banking Specialist      Consultant
MeiWang                                Senior Counsel            LEGES
Hiet Thi HongTran                   Procurement Specialist       EACVF
Thang ChienNguyen               Senior Procurement Specialist    EACVF
EdwardDaoud                         Senior Finance Officer       LOAFC
Jennifer Thomson                    Senior FMSpecialist          EAPCO
PhamThi MongHoa                   Senior Social Development      EACVF
                                          Specialist
Trang PhuongThiNguyen              Environment Specialist        EACVF
Quyen Thi MyNguyen                  Financial Management         EACVF
                                          Specialist
EvelynBautista Laguidao               Program Assistant          EASRE
ThuThi LeNguyen                    Senior Program Assistant      EACVF



3. Bankfunds expendedto date on projectpreparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$212,000
    2. Trust hnds: US$20,000
    3. Total: US$232,000


                                             101

4. EstimatedApprovalandSupervisioncosts:
   1. Remainingcosts to approval: US$87,000
   2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$120,000




                                         102

                   Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile

                    Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject


1.  Project Concept Note, October 2006

2.  Draft PCN at QER Stage, October 2006

3.  draft Environmental SafeguardsAnnex to PAD, January 2007

4.  Detailed Cost Tables, October 2007
5.  Project Operational Manual

6.  PolicyManual

7.  Financial ManagementAssessment, January 2007

8.  FinancialManagementAssessment, October 2007

9.  ProcurementAssessment, October 2007

10. Diagnostic Review of Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development by
    Miguel Sanchez de Pedro, November 2006

11. Assessment of Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development by James
    Lacey, June 2007

12. BIDV'sfinancial performance andIDP implementation letter, January2007

13. Report onMicrofinance Development StudiesReports

14. MissionAid Memoire
     0     June 2006. Aide-Memoire ReconnaisanceMission
     0     August 2006. Aide Memoire IdentificationMission
    e      January 2007. Aide-Memoire Preparation Mission
    e      July 2007. Aide-Memoire Pre-AppraisalMission
    0      November 2007, Aide-Memoire Appraisal Mission




                                     103

                                    Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits

                                       Vietnam: ThirdRuralFinanceProject

                                                                                                           Difference between
                                                                                                           expected and actual
                                                       Original Amount inUS$Millions                         disbursements

ProjectID FY   Purpose                               IBRD       IDA      SF       GEF    Cancel.  Undisb. Orig.     Frm.Rev'd
                                                                                            ~
PO86361   2006 VN-PRSC v                               0.00   100.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 100.74    0.00        0.00
PO75407   2006 VN-RT3                                  0.00   106.25      0.00      0.00     0.00 108.92    1.oo        0.00
PO85071   2006 CustomsModernization                    0.00     65.90     0.00      0.00     0.00  66.58   -0.25        0.00
PO73361   2006 VN-Natural DisasterRiskMngt Project     0.00     86.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  81.73   -3.06        0.00
PO84871   2006 VN-TRANS & DISTRIB 2                    0.00   200.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 200.79    6.67        0.00
PO77287   2006 VN-RRDRWSS                              0.00     45.87     0.00      0.00     0.00  45.75    1.69        0.00
PO79344   2006 VN-1CT Development                      0.00     93.72     0.00      0.00     0.00  90.43    0.97        0.00
PO79663   2006 VN-Mekong RegionalHealthSupport Proj    0.00     70.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  70.29   -1.97        0.00
PO74688   2005 VN-RURAL ENERGY 2                       0.00   220.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 217.36   34.19        0.00
PO66051   2005 VN-Forest Sector DevelopmentProject     0.00     39.50     0.00      0.00     0.00  49.03    3.23        0.47
PO73763   2005 VN-WATER SUPPLY DEV.                    0.00   112.64      0.00      0.00     0.00 109.10    5.05        0.00
PO80074   2005 VN-GEF-RURAL ENERGY 2                   0.00      0.00     0.00      5.25     0.00   4.95    0.20        0.00
PO82604   2005 VN-HIV/AIDS PreventionProject           0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  28.40   -1.42        0.00
PO82627   2005 Payment Systemand Bank Modernization    0.00   105.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  99.57   28.83       15.67
               2
PO74414   2005 VN GEFForest Sector DevelopmentProj
                   -                                   0.00      0.00     0.00      9.00     0.00   8.50    1.83         1.32
PO85080   2005 VN-ROAD SAFETY                          0.00     31.73     0.00      0.00     0.00  29.26    2.47        0.00
PO85260   2005 VN-EFA SupportProgram                   0.00     50.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  46.04   15.00        0.00
PO88362   2005 VN-Avian Influenza Emergency Recovery   0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00     0.00   2.68    2.24         0.00
               Pr
PO70197   2004 VN-URBAN UPGRADING                      0.00   222.47      0.00      0.00     0.00 202.04    2.93         0.00
PO65898   2004 VIETNAM WATER RESOURCES                 0.00   157.80      0.00      0.00     0.00 148.42   18.36         0.00
               ASSISTANCE
PO59663   2004 VN-ROADNETWORKIMPROVT                   0.00   225.26      0.00      0.00     0.00 211.89   83.52         0.00
PO71019   2003 VN-GEF DEMAND SIDE MGMT &               0.00      0.00     0.00      5.50     0.00   3.00    0.60         0.00
               ENERGY
PO75399   2003 PublicFinancialManagement Reform        0.00     54.33     0.00      0.00     0.00  51.86   29.63         0.00
               Proj.
PO44803   2003 VN-PRIMARY EDUC FOR                     0.00   138.76      0.00      0.00     0.00 175.20   44.15         0.00
               DISADVANTAGEDCHILRE
PO73778   2002 VN-GEF-SystemEnergy Equitization-       0.00      0.00     0.00      4.50     0.00   3.58    3.58        0.00
               Renewa
PO73305   2002 VN-Regional Blood TransfusionCenters    0.00     38.20     0.00      0.00     0.00  38.39   26.29        0.00
PO72601   2002 VN RuralFinanceI1Project
                   -                                   0.00   200.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  40.61  -60.29        0.00
PO66396   2002 VN-SYSTEM ENERGY,                       0.00   225.00      0.00      0.00     0.00 187.01  145.06       25.65
               EQUITIZATION& RENEWAB
PO59936   2002 VN -NorthemMountainsPoverty            0.00    110.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  38.92    4.78        0.00
               Reduction
PO51838   2002 VN-PRIMARY TEACHER                     0.00      19.84     0.00      0.00     0.00  12.36    9.29        4.96
               DEVELOPMENT
PO42927   2001 VN-MEKONG TRANSPORTELOOD               0.00    110.00      0.00      0.00     0.00  55.59   39.33       -6.13
               PROT.
PO52037   2001 VN-HCMC ENVMTL SANIT.                  0.00    166.34      0.00      0.00     0.00 149.08   84.32       77.07
PO62748   2001VN COMMUNITY BASED RURAL
                  -                                   0.00    102.78      0.00      0.00     0.00  56.18   29.55        0.00



                                                            104

                 INFRA.
PO56452   2000   VN-RURAL ENERGY                        0.00   150.00     0.00      0.00      8.82     22.42     25.17        7.26
PO42568   2000   VN COASTAL WetWProtDev
                    -                                   0.00    31.80     0.00      0.00      0.00      4.99      3.08        3.08
PO51553   1999   VN-3 CITIES SANITATION                 0.00    80.50     0.00      0.00      0.00     38.19     32.58       20.54
PO04845   1999   VN MEKONG DELTA WATER
                    -                                   0.00   101.80     0.00      0.00      0.00     31.10     26.44      -15.45
PO04828   1999   VN-HIGHER EDUC.                        0.00    83.30     0.00      0.00      0.00     22.96     16.54       17.16
PO45628   1998   VN-TRANSMISSION & DISTR                0.00   199.00     0.00      0.00     39.69     47.44     79.36       18.07
PO04844   1998   VN-AGRIC. DIVERSIFICATION              0.00    66.90     0.00      0.00      0.00     11.00      9.34        6.45
                                                Total:  0.00  3,815.69    0.00     24.25     48.51   2,912.35   750.28     176.12


                                         Vietnam: Third RuralFinanceProject

                                                  STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                  InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                         Committed                                 Disbursed
                                                        IFC                                      IFC
      FY Approval  Company                    Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic.  Loan         Equity     Quasi     Partic.
      2003         ACB-Vietnam                0.00       5.02      0.00     0.00       0.00       5.02       0.00      0.00
      2002         CyberSoft                  0.00       0.06      0.00     0.00       0.00       0.06       0.00      0.00
      2002         DragonCapital              0.00       0.00       1.05    0.00       0.00       0.00       1.05      0.00
      2002         F-V Hospital               5.00       0.00      3.00     0.00       5.00       0.00       3.OO      0.00
      2005         Khai Vy                    6.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
      1998         MFLVinh Phat               0.13       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.13       0.00       0.00      0.00
      1997         Nghi Son Cement            10.09      0.00      0.00      1.88      10.09      0.00       0.00      1.88
      2004         Olam                       20.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      20.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
      2005         PaulMaitland               7.20       0.00      0.00     0.00       7.20       0.00       0.00      0.00
      2001         RMIT Vietnam               7.25       0.00      0.00     0.00       3.50       0.00       0.00      0.00
      2006         SABCO                      20.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
      2003         Sacombank                  0.00       2.77      0.00     0.00       0.00       2.77       0.00      0.00
      2004         Sacombank                  0.00       2.31      0.00     0.00       0.00       2.3 1      0.00      0.00
      2005         Sacombank                  0.00       2.05      0.00     0.00       0.00       2.05       0.00      0.00
      2006         Sacombank                  0.00       3.05      0.00     0.00       0.00       3.05       0.00      0.00
      2002         VEIL                       0.00       0.00      2.00     0.00       0.00       0.00       2.00      0.00
      2003         VEIL                       0.00       7.41      0.00     0.00       0.00       7.41       0.00      0.00
      2007         VEIL                       0.00       6.15      0.00     0.00       0.00       6.15       0.00      0.00

                              Totalportfolio:  75.67    28.82      6.05      1.88     45.92      28.82       6.05      1.88




                                                                      Approvals PendingCommitment
                    FY Approval   Company                         Loan      Equity       Quasi       Partic.

                    2000          MFL-AA                       0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                    2006          CCS-Asia                     0.02          0.00         0.00        0.00
                    2000          Interflour                   0.01          0.00         0.00        0.01
                    2006          CII-Vietnam                  0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                              105

2000    MFLMondial                   0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00
2002    F-V Hospital                 0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00
1999    MFLMinhMinh                  0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00
1999    MFLChau Giang                0.00      0.00   0.00   0.00

            Total pendingcommitment:    0.03   0.00   0.00   0.01




                                    106

                                             Annex 14: Country at a Glance

                                       Vietnam: ThirdRuralFinanceProject
                                                              Eart
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Aala 8    Low.
                                                  Vletnam   Paclflc Income     Development dlamond.
2005
Populatlon,mid-year(millions)                          83 0   1885     2,353
GNlpercapIta (Atlasmethod, US$)                        820    1827       E80               Lifeexpectancy

ON1(Atlas method, US$bilhons)                          514    3,087    1384
Average annual growth, 1999.05
Population (%)                                           11     0 9       19
Laborforce(%)                                           2 1      13      2 3                                    Gross
                                                                                                               primary
M o s t recent eatlmate (lateat year avallable, -99-05)                        capita                       enrollment
Poverty(%of populatlon M o wnatbnalpovertyline)         29
Urbanpopulation(%of totalpopulation)                    26        41      30
Lifeexpectancyatbirth(pars)                             70       70       59                     1
Infantmortality(per lO0Olivebirths)                      n       29       80
Childmalnutrltlon(%of childrenunder5)                   28        15      39       Access to improvedwatersource
Access to animprovedwatersource(%ofpopulation)          85       79       75
Llteracy(%ofpopulationage E+J                           90        91      82
Gross pnmaryenrollment oof school-agepopulation)        98       16      n 4         -Vietnam
  Male                                                  ni       18      la                 Lowincome group
  Female                                                94       114      99

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                             1985     1996   2004     2005     Economic ratloa.
GDP (US$ billions)                             141     207     452     524
Gross capitalfornatlon1GDP                             27 1    358
Exports of goods andservIceslGDP                       32 8    864                              Trade

Grossdomestic savingsIGDP                              8 0     28 3
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                              P2      322

Currentaccount balance1GDP                     -38    -735     -3 8
Interest payments1GDP                          00      0 4      0 7
Total debtlGDP                                 04     P28      394
Total debt servlcdexports                              4 7      2 8
Presentvalueof debtIGDP                                        341
Presentvalueof debtleqmrts                                     504
                                                                                             Indebtedness
                                   198545 1995-05    2004    2005 2005.09
(averageannuelgroMh)
GDP                                    6 5     69      7 7      8.4      7.5          -Vietnam
GDP percapita                          4 3     56      6 6      7.4      6.4
Exportsof goods andservices                                                                  LowincomearoUD
                                      252      158    279      15.0      15.0




                                                                 107

STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                             1985        I995    2004      2005
(%of GDPj                                                                           /Growthof capital and GDP (Oh)

Agriculture                                    40.2       27.2     218
industry                                       27.4       28.8     40.1
 Manufacturing                                 20.5        15.0   20.3
Services                                       325        44.1    38.2

Householdfinalconsumption expenditure                     73.8    65.3
Genera gov't final consumption expenditure                 8.2      8.4
imports of goods andsewices                       ......  419     73.6


                                           1985-95 1995-05       2004      2005
(averageannualgmvdh)                                                                 Growth of exports and imports (Oh)

Agriculture                                     3 5         4 1     3.5             40
industry                                        7 3        0 0      0 2             30
 Manufacturing                                  4 3        110      0 1             20
Services                                        84         5 7      7.5              10
                                                                                    1                                         I
Householdfinalconsumption expenditure                      5 2      7.1
Generalgov't finalconsumption expenditure                  3 8      7.8                      W      01   02     03     W
Gross capitalformation                         258         9 8      m.5                     -Exports         -.9-lmpOrtS    O5
Importsof goods andservices                    242         8 5    25.2


Note:2005data are preliminaryestimates.
This tablewas producedfmm the DevelopmentEconomics LDB database.
'Thediamonds showfourkeyindicators inthecountry(in boid)comparedwithits income-groupaverage.lfdataare missing,thediamond~il
  beincomolete.




                                                                                                                        Vietnam

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                              I985       1995    2004      2005
Domestic prices                                                                      Inflation (%)                            I
(%change)
Consumer prices                                                     7.8      8.3
implicit GDP deflator                                      7.0      7.9      8.4

Government finance
(%of GDP,includescurrentgrantsj
Currentrevenue                                            23.3     23.1
Currentbudgetbalance                                       6.0      6.6
Overallsurpius/deficit                                     0.7      -14                       ---GDP    deilator   -.o-CPi


TRADE
                                              1985       1995    2004      2005
(US$ millions)                                                                       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                             507        5,88   26,503             40,000 T
 Rice                                                     547      950
 Fuel                                                     1063    5.671              30 000
 Manufactures                                             1785   14,842
Total imports (cif)                            930       7.543   31954               20 000
 Food
 Fuelandenergy                                            858    3.574               10.000

                                                                                    I                                         I
 Capitalgoods                                            2,097   8,624                    0

Export pnceindex(2000=WO)                                  0 8      137                      99   00   01    02    03   M   05

Importpriceindex(2000=00)                                  03       TI6                         exports         imports
Terms of trade(2000=60)                                    m6       mi




                                                                    108

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                            1985     1995      2004    2005
(US$ millions)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP (Oh)

Eports of goods andservices                          7,607     30,363
Imports of goods andservices                         n.603     33,808
Resource balance                             -496    -2,996    -3,245
Net income                                    -90     -279       -940
Net currenttransfers                            52     474      2.484

Current account balance                      -534    -2,801     -t701
Financing items (net)                         265     3,301     2,395
Changes innet reserves                        269     -500       -694   -1261

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                 1,376      6,314  7,575
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$)               8.3  11038.3   25,772.3 25,987.1

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            1985     1995      2004    2005
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            61   25,428    l?,825
  IBRD                                          0         0         0       0
  IDA                                           54      231     3,039   3,187              G2,tX              m . 1 "QO

Total debt service                               2      364        781
  IBRD                                           0        0         0       0
  IDA                                            0        2        37      44

Compositionof net resourceflow
  Official grants                               38      348       387
  Officialcreditors                              7       58      1278
  Privatecreditors                               0      356         r)
  Foreigndirect investment (net inflow)          0        0      1,6r)
  Portfolio equity(net inflows)                  0        0         0                       E.9,249
World Bank program
  Commitments                                          265         711
  Disbursements                                         47        444      391    A                                E- Bilateral
                                                                                  8 IDA
                                                                                   -- IBRD D. Other mltilaterd     F Private
                                                                                                                     -
  Principal repayments                                    1          8      14    C-IMF                            G. Short-terr
  Netflow                                               46        436     378
  Interest payments                                       2        29       31
  Net transfers                                         45        407     347


Note This tablewas producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database                                                  81'(3106




                                                                    109

MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 35972

                                                       102                                    104                                106                               108                             110


             VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                C H I N A
                                                                                                               4
             THIRD                                                                                         H Giang              Cao Bang
                                                                                                                                      `
                                                                                                                                  5
  RURAL FINANCE                                                                             Lo Cai
                                                                      Phong Tho                                            9
           PROJECT                                                      1                  3                        8
                                          22                                                                              Bac Can
                                                                                                                           `                                                                          22
                                                                                                                 Tuyn
                                                                                                        7        Quang       Thi     Lang Son
                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                      Yn Bi                Nguyn         10
                                                                         2
                                                                       _Din                                             13
                                                                                                            Vit Tr   12                  14
                                                                        Bin Phu           Son La
                                                                                             '                 11          Vinh Yn
                                                                                                                            ~         Bac Giang      15
                                                                                          6                                16       Bac Ninh
                                                                                                                                     ``
                                                                                                                     H NI                       Ha Long
                                                                                                                      _           17
                                                                                                                    H Dng
            PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                   19     20
                                                                                                             Ha Bnh         Hung   Hai        Hai Phng
                                                                                                                      22        '
                                                                                                                           18Yn     Duong
                                                                                                                                      ' '  21

            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                           H Nam    23     24
                                                                                                                                         Thi Bnh
                                                                                                                           25     _Nam
            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                   Dinh26
                                           20                                                                           Ninh Bnh                                                                     20
                                                                                                                     27
            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES              LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                 Thanh Ha

                                                   DEMOCRATIC                                                                                             Gulf
                                                                                                               28
                                                        REPUBLIC                                                                                                                             Hainan I.
                                                                                                                                                            of                                (China)


PROVINCES:                                                                                                             Vinh
                                                                                                                                                         Tonkin
1 Lai Chu           32 Tha Thin Hu
                           '                                                                                            29
2 Din Bin
  _                  33 D Nang
                        _    ~
                                                                                                                             H Tinh
                                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                      18
3 Lo Cai            34 Quang Nam          18

4 H Giang           35 Quang Ngi
5 Cao Bang
        `            36 Kon Tum                                                            Mekong
                                                                                                                                               _Dng
                                                                                                                                                `    Hi
6 Son La                                                                                                                                              '
     '               37 Gia Lai                                                                                                        30
7 Yn Bi            38 Bnh Dinh
                             _

8 Tuyn Quang        39 Ph Yn
9 Bac Can
                     40 Dak Lak
                        _                                                                                                                               _Dng H
10 Lang Son             _
          '          41 Dak Nng
                                                                                                                                                    31
11 Ph Tho           42 Khnh Ha
                                                                                                                                                              Hue
12 Vinh Phc
    ~                43 Bnh Phuc
                                                                                                                                                              32
13 Thi Nguyn       44 Lm_Dong
                              `
                                           16                                                                                                                        33 _D     Nang
                                                                                                                                                                                 ~                    16
14 Bac Giang
                     45 Ninh Thuan                        T H A I L A N D
15 Quang Ninh        46 Ty Ninh
                                                                                                                                                                                 Tam Ky`
16 H Noi            47 Bnh Duong                                                                                                                                  34

17 Bac Ninh
                     48 Dng Nai
                        _ `
18 H Ty            49 Bnh Thuan                                                                                                                                                     Quang Ngi
19 Hung Yn                                                                                                                                                                      35
     '               50 H Ch Minh City
                          `
20 Hai Duong
         ' '         51 B Ria  Vung Tu
                                  ~                                                                                                                                  36
21 Hai Phng         52 Long An                                                                                                                                      Kon Tum
22 Ha Bnh          53 Tin Giang
                          `
23 H Nam            54 Dng Thp
                       _  `                                                                                                                                                          38

24 Thi Bnh         55 Bn Tre            14                                                                                                                            Plei ku          Quy Nhon    14
                                                                                                                                                                                                 '
25 Ninh Bnh         56 An Giang                                                                                                                                          37
26 Nam Dinh
        _            57 Vinh Long
                          ~
27 Thanh Ha         58 Tr Vinh                                                                                                                                                          39
28 Nghe An           59 Kin Giang
29 H Tinh
        ~            60 Cn Tho'
                          `                                                                                                                                                             Tuy Ha
                                                                                                       C A M B O D I A                                                  40
30 Quang Bnh        61 Hu Giang                                                                                                                                       Bun Ma Thut
31 Quang Tri         62 Sc Trang
                              
                     63 Bac Liu
                                                                                                                                                                                        42
                     64 C Mau                                                                                                                                     41                          Nha Trang
                                                                                                                                                               Gia Nghia
                                                                                                                                                                     ~
                                           12                                                                                                                             _D Lat                     12
                                                                                                                                                     43
                                                                                                                                                  _Dong
                                                                                                                                                   `   Xoi               44            45

                                                                                                                                     46                                                     Phan Rang-
                                                                                                                 Meko               Ty Ninh                                                Thp Chm
                                                                                                                                                 47        48
                                                                                                                                                                      49
                                                                                                                   gn                       Thu Dau
                                                                                                                                                 `
                                                                                                                                                                            '
                                                                                                                                            Mt                     Phan Thit
                                                                                                                                                      Bin Ha
                                                  Gulf                                                                                          50
                                                                                                                         54                       H Ch Minh City
                                                                                                                                                    `
                                                                                                                                         52
                                                     of                                                                                                    51
                                                                                                                   56      Cao Lnh          Tn An

                                                Thailand                                                     Long Xuyn             53       My~ Tho
                                                                                                                         Vinh Long
                                                                                                                          ~                               Vung Tu
                                                                                                                                                           ~
                                                                                       Phu                                                55Bn'  Tre
              VIETNAM                                                                 Quoc                               60
                                           10                                                             Rach Gi     Cn Tho'
                                                                                                                        `        57                                                                   10

                                                                                                                     59      61      Tr Vinh
                                                                                                                           Vi Thanh       58
                                                                                                                             62    Sc Trang
                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                         63
                                                                                                           C Mau               Bac Liu                 0       50    100      150 Kilometers

                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information        64
                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                  0            50            100 Miles
                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                     102                                       104                                 106                                108

                                                                                                                                                                                         FEBRUARY 2008

