                                       Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR2950



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-44470)



                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 127.7 MILLION
                          (US$ 200 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                        SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                         FOR A

                         THIRD RURAL FINANCE PROJECT

                                       June 2, 2014




Vietnam Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective March 15, 2014)

                         Currency Unit = Vietnam Dong
                              VND 21,097 = US$ 1
                             SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.55

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 – December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BIDV      Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam
CAR       Capital Adequacy Ratio
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DONRE     Department of Natural Resources and Environment
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
IDP       Institutional Development Plan
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
MONRE     Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MFI       Micro-Finance Institution
MLF       Micro-finance Loan Fund
NPL       Non-Performing Loans
PCF       Peoples’ Credit Fund
PFI       Participating Financial Institution
PMU       Project Management Unit
PPAR      Project Performance Assessment Report
RDF       Rural Development Fund
ROA       Return on Assets
ROE       Return on Equity
SBV       State Bank of Vietnam
SEDP      Socio-economic Development Plan
VAPCF     Vietnam Association of Peoples’ Credit Funds
VBARD     Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
VINASME   Vietnam Association of Small and Medium Enterprises
      Vice President:   Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
    Country Director:   Victoria Kwakwa, EACVF
     Sector Manager:    Jennifer Sara, EASVS
Project Team Leader:    Harideep Singh, EASER
   ICR Team Leader:     Harideep Singh, EASER
                                   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                    THIRD RURAL FINANCE PROJECT



                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 33
  Annex 5. Assessment of Participating Financial Institutions’ Performance against
            Accreditation Criteria .................................................................................... 35
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 45
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 56

  MAP IBRD 35972
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Vietnam Third Rural
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:
                                                                         Finance Project
Project ID:             P100916                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-44470
ICR Date:               06/22/2014              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:     FIL                     Borrower:                REPUBLIC OF
                                                                         VIETNAM
Original Total
                        XDR 127.70M             Disbursed Amount:        XDR 127.24M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 127.24M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/08/2006     Effectiveness:             02/10/2009       02/10/2009
Appraisal:            10/02/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/22/2008     Mid-term Review:           11/01/2011       11/28/2011
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2013       12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Microfinance                                                          53                  53
SME Finance                                                           47                  47



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                            29                  29
Other Financial Sector Development                                    14                  14
Rural markets                                                         28                  28
Rural non-farm income generation                                      29                  29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:          Victoria Kwakwa                      Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:            Jennifer J. Sara                     Rahul Raturi
Project Team Leader:       Harideep Singh                       Xiaolan Wang
ICR Team Leader:           Harideep Singh
ICR Primary Author:        Harideep Singh

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The development objective of the proposed RFIII would be to increase economic benefits
to rural private enterprises and households by increasing their access to finance. The
expected outcomes would include: (i) improved access to financial services for rural
entrepreneurs; (ii) increased capital investment made by the rural entrepreneurs as well as
increased employment; (iii) increased lending, particularly term lending to the rural
private sector for capital investment by all participating financial institutions (PFIs) on
market-based terms.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO remained unchanged.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally          Actual Value
                                            Values (from         Revised           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                              approval            Target         Completion or
                                             documents)           Values          Target Years
                  Cumulative investments made by rural enterprises as a result of the project
Indicator 1 :
                  (US$ million)
Value
quantitative or 0                          270.0                             430.2
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/10/2009                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
                Achievement: 159%. This target is for RDF investment only. Target for both
Comments
                RDF and MLF investment was 284.3 million. Actual investment was 487.4
(incl. %
                million or 172% achievement. Excluding revolving fund, investments under
achievement)
                RDF and MLF were 341.3 million.
                Incremental increase in employment as a result of sub-project investments
Indicator 2 :
                (thousands)
Value
quantitative or 0                          100,000                           140,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/10/2009                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
                Achievement: 140%. This target is for RDF employment only. Actual
Comments
                achievement shown is the lower-bound PMU estimate. Survey estimate is
(incl. %
                194,000 or 194% achievement. Incremental employment for both RDF and MLF
achievement)
                investments is estimated at 223,000.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                  Component 1: RDF - Cumulative volume of medium or long term loans
Indicator 1 :
                  (disbursement from the project Line of Credit only (US$ million)
Value
(quantitative     0                         175.0                              173.5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/10/2009                 12/31/2013                         12/31/2013
Comments          Achievement: 99%. This relates only to disbursement against project RDF Line
(incl. %          of Credit and does not include PFI share in sub-project loans. Including PFI share
achievement)      and the Revolving Fund, the RDF sub-loans amount to US$304 million.
                Component 1: RDF - Number of borrowers (a measure of the effectiveness of
Indicator 2 :
                targeting SMEs)
Value
(quantitative   0                          45,750                            65,333
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/10/2009                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement: 143%.
achievement)
                Component 1: RDF - Overdue loans as a percentage of loans outstanding
Indicator 3 :
                throughout project implementation
Value
(quantitative   0                          Less than 5%                      0.42%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/10/2009                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
                Achievement: Highly Satisfactory. This is despite the substantial increase in the
Comments
                volume of outstanding loans resulting from the huge volume of RDF sub-loans
(incl. %
                (304 million) compared to appraisal estimate of 230 million, and a minor
achievement)
                banking crisis in 2012.
                Component 2: MLF -Cumulative number of microfinance sub-loans to first time
Indicator 4 :
                borrowers (minimum number of loans)
Value
(quantitative   0                          16,000                            39,588
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/10/2009                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
                Achievement: 247%. MLF end-borrowers were at 70,341 due to high PFI/end-
Comments
                borrower share at 47% of subproject cost, use of 17.1 million from MLF
(incl. %
                Revolving Fund, and overdrawal of 2.5 million in this category. Consequently,
achievement)
                first-time borrowers were higher.
                Component 2: MLF - Share of microfinance sub-loans to women borrowers
Indicator 5 :
                (percentage)
Value
                                           Greater than 40%
(quantitative   0                                                            51%
                                           over project life
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/10/2009                   12/31/2013                        12/31/2013
Comments
                Achievement: Highly Satisfactory. Of the 70,341 MLF sub-projects, 35,989 sub-
(incl. %
                projects had women as end-borrowers.
achievement)
                Component 3: Capacity Building - BIDV - Compliance with accreditation
Indicator 6 :
                criteria or with a time-bound Institutional Development Plan agreed with IDA
                Rating to be accorded
                during project
                implementation ranging
Value
                from Satisfactory,
(quantitative                              Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
                Marginally Satisfactory,
or Qualitative)
                Marginally
                Unsatisfactory, and
                Unsatisfactory
Date achieved 02/10/2009                   12/31/2013                            12/31/2013
Comments
                BIDV had a rating of Satisfactory for each project year based on audited
(incl. %
                financial statements against all five agreed accreditation criteria.
achievement)
                Component 3: Capacity Building - Participating Financial Institutions -
Indicator 7 : Compliance with accreditation criteria or with a time-bound Institutional
                Development Plan agreed with IDA
                                                                Rating to be
                Not available since
                                                                accorded
                participating financial
                                                                during project
                institutions had yet to be
                                                                implementatio
                identified. Rating to be
                                                                n ranging from
Value           accorded during project
                                                                Satisfactory, Marginally
(quantitative   implementation ranging
                                                                Marginally       Satisfactory
or Qualitative) from Satisfactory,
                                                                Satisfactory,
                Marginally Satisfactory,
                                                                Marginally
                Marginally
                                                                Unsatisfactory
                Unsatisfactory, and
                                                                , and
                Unsatisfactory
                                                                Unsatisfactory
Date achieved 02/10/2009                                        12/31/2013       12/31/2013
Comments        This rating is based on a detailed assessment of the PFI performance in terms of
(incl. %        compliance with accreditation criteria or the conditions of the Institutional
achievement) Development Plans. Refer to Annex 5 for the assessment.
                Component 3: Capacity Building - Cumulative number of bankers trained in
Indicator 8 :
                various fields of banking
Value
(quantitative   0                          4,000                                 17,664
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/10/2009                   12/31/2013                            12/31/2013
                Achievement: 442%. Staff from PFIs and sector institutions was trained in
Comments
                supervision, operational and credit risk, asset-liability, innovative banking
(incl. %
                products and services, internal controls, bad debt management, and leadership
achievement)
                aspects, among others.
                Component 3: Capacity Building - Training materials prepared for SMEs training
Indicator 9 :
                modules
Value
                                           Materials prepared                    Materials prepared
(quantitative   No materials available
                                           by Year 3                             in Year 4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/10/2009                   01/31/2012                            01/31/2013
Comments        Achievement: Satisfactory. The materials were used to train trainers who then
(incl. %        conducted SME-focused training in marketing, banking, strategy, and other
achievement) aspects.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                IP         Disbursements
       Archived
                                                           (USD millions)
  1    06/16/2009         Satisfactory      Satisfactory            20.00
  2    06/17/2010         Satisfactory      Satisfactory            39.98
  3    06/04/2011         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           102.17
  4    04/14/2012         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           167.03
  5    11/17/2012         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           185.66
  6    02/14/2013         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           195.25
  7    10/12/2013         Satisfactory      Satisfactory           197.21


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background. Vietnam’s annual growth was estimated at between 7.5-8 percent
during 2006-2010. About 75 percent of the population lived in rural areas with agriculture as the main
source of livelihood. The estimated investment need of the rural economy over the five year period
was projected at US$4 billion. There was a risk that with the realization of the overall high growth
rate, the disparity between the urban and rural areas would widen. Private enterprises, whose activities
were negligible in the earlier decade, were growing rapidly and accounted for over half of the rural
investment, mostly through household savings or informal borrowings. There was a clear need to
further unleash the potential of the private enterprises to increase investment in productive assets and
capacity, become drivers of employment creation and rural growth and narrow the rural-urban gap.
This was to be achieved by affording them access to credit through the formal banking system.
Lack of access to finance for small- and medium-sized private enterprises was confirmed by the World
Bank Climate Assessment as the number one constraint facing private businesses in Vietnam. These
small enterprises were located in rural areas, and financed close to 75% of the new investment
requirement through internal accruals, savings, friends and non-banking sources. Bank financing was
limited to short-term loans which was not well-suited to medium-longer term productive investment.
The banking system was constrained in terms of a mis-match between the tenor of the deposits which
were predominantly short-term, and the need for investment funds which was primarily medium-
longer term. No more than a third of the deposits in the banking system were for more than 12 months,
and despite the State Bank of Vietnam permitting an increased share of 40 percent of short-term funds
to be used for long-term loans, the demand for such loans remained unsatisfied.
The financial sector reforms initiated by the government in 2001 had gained momentum: the state-
owned commercial banks were getting restructured, state-owned enterprise lending was getting
separated from these banks, the regulatory framework was getting aligned with international standards,
and participation of foreign financial institutions was increasing competition. In 2004, the government
issued a decree on the operation and organization of micro-financial institutions. More importantly, in
2006, the government introduced a solid and far-reaching plan for the development of the sector which
involved laws relating to the following: State Bank of Vietnam, credit institutions, deposit insurance,
banking oversight, and modernization of the payments system and management information system
(the last with World Bank support). Compared with a mere seven banks that participated in the Rural
Finance Project I until December 2001, by the completion of Rural Finance Project II in September
2009, it had 22 participating private commercial banks.
Rationale for Bank Involvement. Despite the impressive reform progress and the increasing
formalization and competition among private and public sector banks in the financial sector, Vietnam
still lagged in efficiency and outreach of financial services. Rural small and medium private
enterprises continued to face challenges in accessing medium-longer term financing as did the banking
sector in garnering deposits of longer than 12 months duration. This was beginning to undermine the
development plan of the government which emphasized the importance of providing financial services
for agricultural growth, non-farm employment generation, and poverty reduction.
It was in this context that the project was appraised. It built on the achievements of the two
predecessor projects (Rural Finance I and II) which had yielded positive outcomes and also important
operational and policy design lessons to meet the challenges in catalyzing term financing for rural
enterprises. The project focused on: (a) accelerating rural development through financing micro-,
small- and medium-sized rural enterprise investments; and (b) institutional strengthening of the 1
participating financial sector institutions. The project supported the Country Assistance Strategy and



1
 Country Partnership Strategy (2007-2011), Board Document Number IDA/R2007-0005/3 of February
21, 2007
                                                1
Vietnam’s Socio-Economic Development Plan 2 through investment in two of the four main pillars: (a)
Improving business environment, by providing access to finance through a number of financial
institutions to foster private business participation and support to first-time borrowers in a range of
economic sectors in the rural areas; and (b) Strengthening social inclusion, by supporting dispersion of
business development benefits to rural areas to prevent a widening of the rural-urban poverty gap, and
incorporating support to women under the project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the project was to increase economic benefits to rural private enterprises
and households by increasing their access to finance. The two key outcome indicators were:
    (a) PDO Indicator 1: Increased amount of capital investment made by the rural entrepreneurs (a
        proxy for increased direct economic returns as a result of the project); and
    (b) PDO Indicator 2: Incremental increase in employment (a proxy for social and secondary
        economic returns of the project).
A number of other indicators were mentioned as Output Indicators in the PAD but as Intermediate
Outcome Indicators in the Results Framework:
    •   Volume of term loans (a proxy for access to credit resources)
    •   Number of borrowers (a measure of the effectiveness of targeting SMEs)
    •   Compliance of BIDV and PFIs with minimum accreditation criteria or time bound institution
        development plans (IDPs) agreed with IDA
    •   Number of new microfinance borrowers, particularly women
    •   Number of training courses for bankers
    •   Preparation of training courses for SMEs

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original PDO was not revised during implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries fell into the following five main groups at appraisal, and these broad groups
did not change during implementation:
    (a) about 45,750 micro- and small rural enterprises to benefit from increased access to loans under
        Rural Development Fund, Component 1 3 of the project;
    (b) about 24,250 micro-enterprises and household businesses to benefit from increased access to
        loans under Micro-finance Loan Fund, Component 2 4 of the project;
    (c) BIDV and VBARD were the two central financial institutions expected to benefit from
        technical assistance and training in core areas for institutional strengthening;


2
 Vietnam’s Tenth SEDP covering 2006-2010, which also constituted Vietnam’s Poverty Reduction
Strategy, discussed by the Bank Board of Directors on December 5, 2006
3
 Based on the assumption of an average size of project loan of US$5,000 as indicated in the Results
Framework, and the IDA and PFI portion (65% and 15% financing share) which, when put together,
would lend about US$230 million. Loans could be offered to about 45,750 end-borrowers
4
 Based on an expected average loan size of US$500 per sub-project as indicated in the Results
Framework, and the IDA and PFI portion (70% and 15% financing share) which, when put together,
would lend about US$12.1 million. Loans could be offered to about 24,250 end-borrowers
                                                   2
    (d) a large number of PFIs and MFIs (the number was not known at appraisal) participating in the
        project expected to benefit from the training in risk management, lending techniques, providing
        access to financial services to micro-, small- and medium enterprises and household businesses,
        and adoption of environmental guidelines; and
    (e) nodal institutions such as Vietnam Association of Peoples’ Credit Funds (VAPCF), Vietnam
        Association of SMEs (VINASME), State Bank of Vietnam (SBV), and Banking Supervision
        Agency (BSA) were to receive technical assistance, training and exposure to international best
        practices in their area of work as a core component of capacity building initiatives.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises - Rural Development Fund (RDF)
(US$175 million IDA financing): A line of credit was to be extended to the PFIs to ease their term
financing constraint to provide medium- and long-term RDF loans to the micro- and small enterprise
segment of the market. The project was to finance up to 70% of each sub-project cost, with the
remaining 30% of the sub-project cost to be shared more or less equally between the PFI and the end-
borrower. It was expected that cumulative investment of US$270 million would result from this line of
credit through 45,750 sub-projects.
Component 2: Increase Access to Micro-finance in the Rural Economy - Micro-finance Loan Fund
(MLF) (US$10 million IDA financing): A line of credit was to be extended to the MFIs to
demonstrate the viability of lending to micro-enterprises and household businesses. The project was to
finance up to 70% of each MLF sub-project cost, with the remaining 30% of the sub-project cost to be
shared between the PFI and the end-borrower. Two 5  key criteria were: (a) it should benefit
predominantly first time end-borrowers and women ; and (b) sub-loan size would be a maximum of
US$500. It was expected that cumulative investment of US$14.3 million would result from this line of
credit through 24,250 sub-projects.
Component 3: Build Institutional Capacities and New Products (US$15 million IDA financing): This
component had three main activities:
    (a) strengthen the capacity of BIDV as a wholesale financial institution serving rural areas through
        the provision of technical assistance and training;
    (b) strengthen the capacity of selected PFIs in providing rural financial services through the
        provision of technical assistance and training, including, inter alia: (i) training in lending
        techniques for rural small and medium enterprises; (ii) assisting potential PFIs to meet
        accreditation criteria as set out in the policy manual; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of
        VBARD in implementing its institutional development plan with emphasis on lending to
        households and micro- and small to medium enterprises; and
    (c) carry out a program to: (i) develop new rural finance products and services; (ii) strengthen the
        capacity of VAPCF in implementing its organizational and business plan; (iii) provide
        technical assistance and training to VINASME to enable it to assist small and medium
        enterprises to access rural financial services; and (iv) strengthen the capacity of selected non-
        bank PFIs and MFIs in credit risk management and lending techniques for micro-enterprises;
        and (v) provide training to PFIs on the application of the environmental guidelines.

1.6 Revised Components

The original components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes


5
 It was hoped that 16,000 would be first-time end-borrowers, and about 40% would be women end-
borrowers. These two targets were specifically included in the Results Framework
                                                  3
In November 2013, VBARD agreed to relinquish US$2.0 million from its allocation for training
activities which had got delayed due to the VBARD management decision to link these to the needs
emanating from its broader restructuring plan. An additional US$500,000 was expected to remain
undisbursed against a technical assistance consultancy. Since: (a) this proposal came very near the
closing date; (b) the amount was relatively modest; and (c) the project activities and project
description remained unchanged, a formal Level 2 restructuring was dispensed with and the
implementing agency was allowed to over-draw the Micro-finance Loan Fund component up to
US$2.5 million to accede to the PFI demand for additional line of credit for short term loans.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The background analysis for the project was sound and adequately addressed the rural conditions and
financial sector status of Vietnam, including the importance of rural medium-longer term investment
finance and the need to strengthen the institutional capacity of both the banking and non-bank sector
entities to deepen outreach and further intensify competition in the provision of financial services to
the rural areas.
The project was the third in the series of Rural Finance projects in Vietnam, with the first starting in
1997, and the second in 2003. Although the objectives of this project were the same as the two
predecessor projects in substance and addressed very much similar constraints faced by the small and
medium enterprise and household sectors, this project introduced a range of much needed adjustments
in project design which included: increasing the share of medium and longer term line of credit
compared to the short-term line of credit, greater spread of accredited PFIs thus reducing the relative
dominance of VBARD, a conscious focus on lending to women and providing access to finance to
first-time borrowers, greater focus on developing new and innovative microfinance products, some
shift in focus in capacity building from mere processes to improved institutional structures, the
requirement to carry out two environmental audits (to assess compliance with environmental
guidelines), and two socio-economic surveys (to assess project impact), both by external agencies.
The overall design remained unchanged and incorporated the elements of the       predecessor projects
which were assessed in the Implementation Completion and Results Report 6 as being an appropriate
response to the rural and the banking sector situation in Vietnam. The project had a simple structure
with three major components: two lines of credit, and an institutional strengthening component. The
project’s geographical coverage remained unchanged: all of Vietnam, except the four provinces of Ha
Noi, Ho Chi Minh City, Da Nang, and Hai Phong. While an agricultural area exists within the urban
Ha Noi municipality, it was believed that it had better access to credit due to its proximity to financial
institutions than the other remote rural areas and was therefore excluded from project intervention.
For the Micro-finance Loan Fund, a threshold of US$500 as sub-loan for households and micro-
enterprises was set to better target the rural poor.
The concept of setting normative bank supervision standards as eligibility criteria for banks and micro-
financial institutions to participate in the project was based on international good practice and created
a three-tier system: (i) permitting banks that comply with all criteria to participate; (ii) requiring those
banks that are somewhat deficient to participate but prepare a time-bound Institutional Development
Plan creating an incentive system to improve overall performance; and (iii) leaving out those banks
that are inherently weak. The requirement of preparing Institutional Development Plans for banks
which fell short of meeting any of the five key accreditation criteria (capital adequacy, non-performing
loans, liquidity, return on assets and return on equity) allowed them to reflect on their weaknesses and
future challenges, and take concrete steps to achieve normative international prudential standards for
sound banking.



6
 Implementation Completion and Results Report of the Rural Finance II Project dated May 25, 2010
(Report Number ICR1367)
                                                  4
Government commitment was strong, and the project was developed even as the RF II project was
being implemented. Consultations with PFIs were held to specifically guide project design and the
team relied on the extensive understanding of the banking sector and implementation aspects amassed
under the RF I and II projects.
Risks were generally accurately identified. For a risk emanating from a hypothetical macro-economic
shock to the financial system, the mitigating action recommended developing and evaluating an
appropriate response. The accreditation criteria for evaluation of BIDV and PFIs used international
standards for banking supervision which are designed to protect banks against such economic shocks.
However, as with any macro-economic shock to a financial system, specific adjustments required are
usually tailored to the circumstances. The risk relating to low demand for medium or long-term credit
was rated as Significant even though there was an acute shortage of funds with PFIs to meet borrower
demands for longer-term loans, mainly due to the uncertain interest rate regime. It did not materialize.
The risk relating to low demand for TA, however, was accurately rated as Significant given that the
PFIs (commercial banks) were required to borrow to fund these assignments. The mitigating action
recommended by the project was to enhance PFI appreciation for such TA. This risk did materialize
during project implementation and resulted in less than expected demand for TA from the PFIs. After
some attempts to increase interest by PFIs, some funds were reallocated to the Micro-finance Loan
Fund. Finally, the risk relating to inadequate number of potential PFIs was accurately rated as
Moderate given that the private banking sector was in early stages of development and not all PFIs
would have been able to participate (even with the requirement of preparing an Institutional
Development Plan). During implementation, both the PIU and Bank teams were careful to restrict
project participation to only those banks which met a majority of the criteria and which were deemed
to have a reasonable chance of meeting the goals set in their time bound Institutional Development
Plans.
This project was consciously designed to focus on the delivering credit to segments of the market
where it was unavailable and on the institutional development of banks, rather than a reform of
broader banking system policy. The project team recognized that leveling the playing field by
rationalizing the subsidized credit programs, and/or judiciously removing the interest rate ceilings to
create an enabling environment for private players to generate profits adequate for them to enter the
market for rural financial services to compete with VBARD, was indeed desirable. However, it
concluded that a relatively small and simple line of credit operation such as this project would not
create any credible incentive to somehow transform the overall interest rate and monetary policy
making environment. It was decided that these policy issues would have a better chance for
deliberation through other more appropriate instruments (Financial Sector Modernization and
Information System Project (P088759), Payment System and Bank Modernization Project (P082627),
Financial Market Infrastructure Development (P105198), Policy Note on Banking Sector Reform
(P112285), and PRSCs’ efforts to modernize the central bank, increase disclosures of relevant
financial information, and contribute to the development of the financial sector in general) which were
already under implementation or consideration at that stage rather than through this investment loan.
Another factor that influenced this decision was that BIDV (and not SBV) as the implementing agency
for this project was not well-suited to implementing higher level banking sector reforms.
Supporting an early finalization and implementation of the regulatory framework for the MFIs which
could have possibly allowed more vigorous participation of such institutions in the project was another
option that could have been considered by the project. However, given the past delays with the
associated government decree, the team embraced the option of limiting the MFIs to be included in the
project to a small pilot component of the overall project.
The Project Performance Assessment Report 7 of Rural Finance I made two suggestions that could
have been potentially considered at the project design stage: (a) Consider the impact of credit
conditions through the life of the credit, not simply the life of the project, and to introduce flexibility to
adapt to change. The project team could have explored the option of indexing loan amount ceilings to
allow for both inflation and rising per capita income through a nominal per capita, or rural per capita,
income index. This could continue to keep the MLF attractive to the banks in the post-project period


7
 Project Performance Assessment Report of the Rural Finance I project dated June 26, 2009 (Report
Number 48763)
                                                   5
by making the US$500 loan size threshold flexible, without compromising the thrust of lending to the
poor. (b) The shift in the boundaries of Ha Noi included some areas that marginally reduced the
potential beneficiary population; a review of the geographical coverage of this project was suggested
to include some dispersed rural population within the broader urban Ha Noi jurisdiction. Since these
potential beneficiaries tended to have better access to credit than those located in rural areas, the
project coverage was restricted to designated rural areas only.
The project offered technical assistance through loans to banks seeking such support. Studies relating
to strategy for penetration of rural markets or training for staff orientation to better understand the
risks related to agricultural lending and approaching small and medium rural enterprises were an
important mechanism to provide opportunities for private bank to explore provision of rural financial
services. This was an ambitious US$15 million TA program, and despite government aversion to
providing grants for TA, the project team successfully negotiated a US$5 million grant from the
government to non-bank financial institutions and other sector entities, and an additional US$10
million was offered in loans to BIDV, VBARD and other banks based on their demand for TA.
Although private banks did avail of the training opportunities offered under the project (initially from
loan funds, and later on a cost-sharing basis), the TA support for consultancies was not as robust partly
because of the need to follow Bank procurement procedures. BIDV and VBARD were significant
users of this technical assistance and training component, along with other sector institutions, and this
produced very good institutional development results. Close to 90% of the US$15 million was used
and the remaining funds were reallocated to the MLF component.

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation was generally satisfactory. Five major factors contributed to facilitating
project implementation:
   (a) High-level commitment of BIDV to manage the project, as evidenced especially by their
       providing sufficient qualified staff and financial resources to the Project Management Unit
       (PMU). The team conducted in-depth appraisal of the potential project PFIs to review
       compliance with the project accreditation criteria, regularly monitored the PFI operating and
       financial performance to work with them to develop and monitor the implementation of
       Institutional Development Plans, managed the training and technical assistance activities for
       BIDV and other non-bank project entities, conducted regular quarterly review missions with
       PFI staff to visit sub-projects and identify issues to be corrected, trained PFI staff in
       environmental aspects and visited critical high risk and a sample of medium-low risk sub-
       projects as a part of their regular supervision effort, managed and aligned credit lines based on
       PFI performance, and identified implementation issues and worked with the Bank team to
       resolve them.
   (b) The large pool of financial institutions available to choose PFIs from, some of them meeting
       the accreditation criteria, and some others entering the project with the establishment of
       Institutional Development Plans.
   (c) The continued overall high demand for medium-long term investment funds by the PFIs to
       provide term loans to their rural clients. The Rural Development Fund line of credit witnessed
       a huge demand from a large number of PFIs.
   (d) Participating institutions saw in the training and technical assistance component an opportunity
       to obtain international best practice consultancies in critical areas. BIDV and VBARD focused
       on strategy, comprehensive risk management, branch network efficiency and management,
       among other things. VAPCF, VINASME, and BSA sought the opportunity to get advice on
       international approaches to non-bank PFI issues such as risk management, accounting, and
       internal auditing, and international practices to supervision and regulation of non-bank PFIs
       and MFIs respectively, which further strengthened their capacities.
   (e) Focus on TA was the key recommendation of the mid-term review mission (completed in
       December 2011, two years before closing date) which recognized the excellent project
       performance in lending and the need to expedite the implementation of the TA component.
       The three BIDV consultancies were at the combined evaluation stage, the two VBARD
       consultancies were at technical evaluation stage, and the remaining four consultancies were
                                                6
       getting ready for award. The excessive time required was due to the need to prepare the terms
       of reference and the procurement documents on a collaborative and consultative basis, with
       hands-on technical and procurement support being provided to the recipients by the Bank team.
       All assignments were awarded after the mid-term review.

There were several factors (the first five were clearly beyond the control of the PMU) which affected
the pace of implementation:

   (a) SBV requiring the banks to enhance their capital. This December 2006 decree required the
       banks to raise their charter capital to VND 3,000 billion by December 2011. Some banks were
       unable to meet this requirement given the sluggish capital market response and therefore could
       not satisfy the accreditation criteria relating to capital adequacy; some other banks which could,
       came under intense pressure to expand their network and scale of operation to deploy the
       additional equity to generate profits, while the management capacity remained status quo. This
       resulted in a shortfall in their operational and financial performance and inadequate compliance
       with return on equity criterion. These banks could either not be selected to participate in the
       project, or did not receive increase in their already allocated credit lines. In some cases, BIDV
       had to reduce the credit lines or even stop disbursing project funds, affecting the pace of
       implementation.
   (b) Introduction of a cap on lending rate. Extended period of high inflation and lending during
       2010 left many banks with a severe liquidity issue. Competition for funds resulted in the
       deposit mobilization rate consistently increasing from mid-2011 to early 2012, which in turn
       resulted in high lending rates. In an attempt to curb inflation, the SBV imposed a ceiling on
       lending rates in 2011. Although considered a temporary measure, application of the ceiling
       affected the profitability of lending to remote rural areas due to higher operating costs. Project
       disbursement slowed down for several months resulting from reduced lending.
   (c) Introduction of a cap on deposit mobilization rate. Following the cap on lending rates, from
       the second quarter of 2012, SBV imposed a cap on the deposit mobilization rate which the PFIs
       reduced several times. The project’s on-lending rate for PFIs was variable and depended on a
       formula which was based on an average of the three, six and 12 month deposit rate, but
       adjusted quarterly for project PFI on-lending purposes. This was a workable formula during a
       stable interest rate regime but with the intense volatility, the PFI on-lending rate was
       consistently higher than the actual market deposit mobilization rates, rendering the use of the
       project line of credit financially unviable for PFIs. The less attractive funds affected the pace
       of lending for a couple of months till the formula was adjusted by SBV to more accurately
       reflect the market rates through a more frequent monthly adjustment.
   (d) Recent banking sector problems. With the global slowdown and the tightening of the monetary
       policy in recent years (2012-2013), many private enterprises declared bankruptcy. Close to
       250,000 of the 600,000 enterprises had viability issues. Rising level of non-performing loans’
       share in the portfolio well beyond the maximum 6% norm, and declining profitability with the
       need to make larger provisions was particularly worrisome for PFIs. The situation prompted
       SBV to establish the Vietnam Asset Management Company to buy out the bad debts of the
       banking sector to the tune of about US$6 billion. To minimize risks and safeguard project
       funds, the PMU closely monitored PFI performance and took remedial measures, including
       stopping disbursement, and even recovering the credit lines from some PFIs. This reduced the
       number of PFIs actively lending under the project.
   (e) Delay in approval of the VBARD Restructuring Plan. VBARD was one of the key institutions
       identified for institutional strengthening (nearly half of the US$15.0 million Institutional
       Strengthening budget, about US$7.0 million, was allocated to VBARD) with US$3.0 million
       was allocated for training. A comprehensive restructuring plan was prepared by VBARD to
       improve its efficiency and performance sometime in 2011. The plan needed to be approved by
       SBV, and VBARD wanted to derive the training needs from the new strategy. The plan
       approval was delayed and in June 2013 VBARD agreed with the Bank to reallocate US$2.0
       million of the training budget to other project components. Only one-third of the VBARD
       training budget could be used by project closing.


                                                7
   (f) Start-up, procurement and implementation issues relating to the technical assistance
       component. Late commencement of institutional strengthening consultancies (almost
       after 2.5 years into implementation in 2011), involvement of the agencies in the
       finalization of the Terms of Reference, and the need to comply with the government of
       Vietnam regulations and the WB procurement guidelines, all contributed to delayed
       progress of this sub-component. Inadequate capacity of banks to initiate and complete a
       one-off procurement, particularly those relating to selection of the international
       consultants, compounded the delay. Some assignments encountered implementation
       issues ranging from start-up problems, assignment of consultants with inadequate
       capacity, reallocation of responsibilities between local and international staff, less than
       satisfactory quality of deliverables and inadequate compliance with the agreed Terms of
       Reference. The Bank had to function as an “honest broker” in one case to bring the
       assignment to a satisfactory closure.
   (g) Issues at project start-up. Although the project was designed on the Rural Finance II project
       experience and benefited from quick start-up, it faced two key issues during the first 18 months
       of implementation: (i) the loan portfolio was dominated by transport sector investment loans,
       probably due to the collateral that such investment provided; and (ii) BIDV tried to get as
       many private banks to participate to get them interested in lending in the rural space, an
       important feature of the project. Transport loans were temporarily stopped in 2010 to refocus
       the portfolio on other sub-sectors (cultivation, fishery, livestock, services, etc.). Although this
       eventually did result in a well-diversified portfolio at project closing, but slowed the
       disbursement pace in 2010 due to the rebalancing initiative. While focusing only on private
       banks was indeed a useful strategy, progress was a bit slow with the small number of PFIs in
       the initial stages of the project. VBARD eventually participated in the project in 2010 with an
       Institutional Development Plan, and with more PFIs gradually entering the project, progress
       accelerated in 2011.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project had a comprehensive M&E system consisting of: (a) a strong and detailed database of
loans extended, collections, revolving funds, sector-wise lending, maturity of loans, sub-project size,
and PFI/sub-borrower contributions, among other aspects; (b) field trips by BIDV staff along with
those of PFIs to assess compliance with project guidelines for fiduciary aspects, financial management
and accounting practices, and environmental aspects; and (c) studies by external independent agencies
to assess PFI and sub-borrower compliance with environmental guidelines and requirements, and
impact assessment of the project interventions.
M&E implementation and utilization was highly satisfactory. BIDV engaged sufficient qualified staff
to handle project monitoring and reporting. The quarterly progress reports on lending, training and
technical assistance, the semi-annual reports on institutional performance, including the status of
Institutional Development Plans, the mid-term review and end-of-project reports for environmental
audit and project assessment were submitted by BIDV on time and were of high quality.
The M&E reports were the basis for all assessments and recommendations of the Bank implementation
support missions, and helped in identifying critical and unresolved issues affecting progress. The mid-
term environmental audit and the impact assessment based on sample surveys that were built into the
project design provided an excellent understanding of the project achievement and a wealth of
information for mid-course correction.
The M&E for this project could easily be considered to be best practice. It provided excellent
information on the financial, economic, environmental and social aspects of the project. This was
done through a combination of regular monitoring and periodic economic, social and environmental
studies and audits.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard Compliance. This Project has a safeguards classification of FI (Financial Intermediary).
The project triggered only Environmental Assessment and Pest Management safeguards, and included

                                                 8
a negative list of sub-projects that would have otherwise triggered other safeguard policies or were
socially sensitive. Safeguard compliance was assessed to be satisfactory.

At project closing on December 31, 2013, a total of 135,674 sub-projects were financed. From the
environmental stand-point, these were classified as follows: (a) seven sub-projects required an
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) approved by the provincial environmental agency –
DONRE; (b) 328 sub-projects required an Environmental Protection Commitment (EPC) from the sub-
borrower; and (c) 135,339 sub-projects required a standard Environmental Protection Agreement
(EPA) between the financing PFIs and the sub-borrowers (generally low risk sub-projects with
minimal environmental impact and simple mitigation measures). No sub-project required RDF loan in
excess of US$80,000 (necessitating a full environmental screening, preparation of an EMP, and its
approval by the Bank) or was located in the environmental hot-spots or fell in the negative list of
environmentally or socially sensitive sub-projects.

To assess compliance with the environmental protection guidelines under the project, two audits were
carried out. The first (mid-term audit) survey was completed in May 2012 covering 412 sub-projects
financed out of 52 branches of 18 PFIs. This sample focused almost entirely on low risk sub-projects.
The audit indicated that 90% of the reviewed sub-projects implemented the required mitigation actions
fully, 9% partially, and only 1% had not taken any of the agreed measures. A flavor of the type of
actions taken for sub-projects in various sub-sectors is provided: (a) cultivation subprojects are all
using chemical fertilizers and pesticides from the permitted list. The used packaging was either burnt
or buried; (b) small-scale aquaculture sub-projects used fish dropping waste to fertilize plantations;
and (c) small-scale sub-projects such as brick and plastic production transported waste away from the
production areas and used humidifiers to reduce dust in production facilities.

A second (end-of-project) survey completed in December 2013, covering a different set of 385 sub-
projects financed by 34 PFI branches of 13 PFIs, was more broad-based. The results of the audit
reinforced the findings of the mid-term audit: (a) there was an enhanced level of awareness about
environmental protection among sub-borrowers, and PFI staff; (b) all of the audited sub-projects had
their environmental registration in place; (c) none were located in/near ecologically sensitive areas; (d)
the main sources of pollution were pig breeding, aquaculture, construction material producing sub-
projects, and the use of chemical fertilizers; (e) almost all sub-projects were small-scale in nature
requiring an agreement to take simple mitigating actions, and almost all of these sub-projects
implemented the requisite actions. Based on the twin criteria of environmental documentation and
mitigating actions being taken, 371 of the 385 sub-projects were found to be compliant. Both the
PMU and the PFIs, played a substantial role in information dissemination, monitoring compliance,
recommending actions, providing guidance, and in extreme cases, temporarily suspending loan
disbursements. Where required, local environmental agencies (DONRE/MONRE) were consulted and
their cooperation sought in determining mitigating actions and/or monitoring compliance.

A two-stage consultancy was funded under the project to support PFIs to implement actions relating
to environment compliance. The first stage of the assignment was completed in 2010 and covered 26
sub-projects from paper production, aquaculture, animal husbandry, agriculture, transportation, food
processing industry. The impacts on the environment from these sub-projects were assessed to be
negligible and the sub-borrowers had adopted adequate measures to reduce the pollution. The second
stage of the assignment was completed in June 2013 and covered 32 sub-projects (all five high risk
projects with environmental impact assessment requirement, and a sample of 14 difficult sub-projects
with commitments to take significant actions, and 13 sub-projects with agreements to take simple
actions). All sub-projects had been classified accurately with the required documentation. Twenty-
nine sub-projects had no environmental issues, most were located away from densely populated areas
with little impact on noise or water pollution, and most sub-projects had good collaboration with
DONRE. The environmental issues created by the sub-projects related to noise/smell/emissions
pollution, hazardous and solid waste generation, possible micro-biological infection source, and waste
water discharge. The mitigation measures were fairly elaborate and responsive to the sub-project
related environmental issues. Sub-projects with waste water discharge issues had well-functioning
treatment facilities.

The PMU, in consultation with the environmental consultants, carried out a large number of
environmental training sessions for the PFI staff, developed leaflets on environmental protection for
the following key sectors: cultivation (rice, tea, coffee, pepper), pig and cow husbandry, poultry
                                                   9
breeding, fish and shrimp aquaculture, integrated garden-pond-livestock model, biogas model, and
integrated pest management, and prepared guidelines on pesticide purchase and safe use which were
distributed to the PFIs for their end-borrowers.

This project resulted in the adoption of environmental operating procedures, supplied by the project, as
part of the business practices of a number of PFIs. No bank in Vietnam had environment screening
before this project began. This could be considered to be a best practice example of how to introduce
environmental practices into a banking system.

Fiduciary Compliance. The Financial Management (FM) reviews in regular supervision missions
assessed the financial management system in place as adequate and capable of providing, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information that Bank loan proceeds were being used for the
intended purposes. The project FM was consistently rated as Satisfactory since 2009. The reviews also
recognized adequacy of financial management staffing, accounting and internal control systems,
maintenance of supporting documents in the project, and implementation of auditor recommendations.
Quarterly financial reports with acceptable quality were submitted on time. Project annual audited
financial reports and entity (BIDV) annual audited financial reports were submitted to the Bank with
unqualified (clean) audit opinions. The project accounting systems were observed to be in order and
payments were well-controlled. The verification and payment system for contracts was consistent with
the provisions of the Vietnamese government and the World Bank.

Ninety percent of the credit was on-lent through PFIs to rural enterprises and households. As all of the
loans were below US$1,000,000, according to the project regulations, procurement procedures of end-
borrower were to be used in line with normal commercial practices. Procurement of goods and
technical assistance were implemented under Institutional Strengthening Component, but limited funds
were allocated to this component. Both of BIDV and VBARD, the two main institutions using this
assistance had considerable accumulated experience in procurement. In the implementation of the
project, the procurement activities adequately complied with regulations set out by Vietnamese
Government and the Bank’s guidelines. There were no incidents of violation or mis-procurement
during project implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

A key benefit of a longer-term line of credit operation lies in the use of the repaid loans for subsequent
rounds of lending resulting in waves of additional annual investment. This has already begun to
happen through the use of the revolving funds for the two predecessor Rural Finance projects and also
for this project (see table below for cumulative lending up to December 31, 2013).
                                                            RF I             RF II          RF III
       Original Credit Disbursed (US$M)                     113.8           234.9           198.4
       Credit Effectiveness Date/                        02/06/1997      04/14/2003      02/12/2009
       Credit Closing Date                               12/31/2001      09/30/2009      12/31/2013
       Cumulative Disbursement of the Credit             390 (240%       568 (141%        266 (34%
       as on December 31, 2013,   including              additional       additional      additional
       through revolving funds 8 (US$M)                    loans)           loans)          loans)
       Commencement of loan repayment      by BIDV       Year 2003       Year 2011       Year 2017
       Closure of revolving fund 9                       Year 2022       Year 2027       Year 2033
It is important for BIDV to ensure that: (a) PFI performance is regularly reviewed to determine their
eligibility for project participation; (b) the lines of credit allocated are strategically adjusted (increased,
maintained, reduced or suspended) in response to PFI performance; (c) additional deserving banks and
PCFs are allocated a share in the lines of credit; (d) the project geographical area and the threshold of


8
 Based on a rough exchange rate of US$1=VND20,000 for all three projects (project loan only; excludes
PFI and end-borrower contribution).
9
    The on-lending terms to BIDV are 25 years repayment with 8 years grace period

                                                    10
US$500 on the MLF line of credit sub-loans, the required PFI/end-borrower share in the final
investment is reviewed and adjusted periodically (if necessary and without compromising the objective
of targeting the poor) in consultation with the Bank; and (e) BIDV, PFI, and end-borrowers all
continue to support the approach to have a financially robust portfolio of sub-projects which complies
with the environmental safeguards.
Despite the availability of the Rural Finance credit lines for subsequent rounds of lending, there
is still a shortage of medium-long term credit in the system due mainly to aspects relating to the
past track record relating to uncertain interest rate policy. The Bank is preparing a project to
support sustainable agricultural transformation building based on the project experience of using
the wholesale banking modality or lending strategically through just 3-4 interested banks but
through a line of credit designated specifically to finance longer-term investments along the
value chain of tree crop plantation activity complemented with technical extension and support.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Access to credit remains one of the most pervasive problems for rural households and businesses,
especially SMEs, and this diminishes opportunities for income increases. The share         of debt in
financial structure of Vietnamese enterprises is unusually low, and a recent survey10 results indicate
that about 39 percent of firms are credit-rationed or constrained. This affects SMEs in particular: 75
percent of large firms use external financing compared to 31 percent of small firms. Hence,
Vietnamese SMEs continue to struggle with access to finance issue which clearly presents a key
impediment to their growth, competitiveness, innovation and efficiency. The financial institutions also
continue to grapple unsuccessfully with the predominance of short-term deposits which significantly
constrain their ability to provide capital investment loans due largely to interest rate policy and other
business climate issues. Thus, the project objective of providing term investment financing to rural
enterprises continues to remain   as relevant today as it was at appraisal, and is also aligned with the
Country Partnership Strategy 11 and the Vietnam SEDP 12 which focus on private sector as the potential
engine of growth and competitiveness.

Issues relating to intermittent introduction of interest rate cap both on lending and deposit mobilization,
the need to develop longer-term saving products, and to create an enabling environment for micro-
financial institutions, however, continue to persist and should continue to be addressed in the broader
macro-economic and financial sector dialogue in Vietnam going forward.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

PDO 1: Increased economic benefits to enterprises and households. Investment in rural and household
enterprises through loans under the project was expected to result in financial benefits to the end-
borrowers. Two key indicators were identified to assess achievement of these benefits: (a) increased
amount of investment made by the rural entrepreneurs (a proxy for increased direct economic returns
as a result of the project); and (b) incremental increase in employment (a proxy for social and
secondary economic returns of the project).

Indicator 1: Increased investment by the rural entrepreneurs. The total investment under the two
components, namely, Rural Development Fund (RDF) and Microfinance Loan Fund (MLF) was
US$487.4 million (172% achievement) through 135,674 sub-projects (194% achievement). This
compares with the expected investment of US$284.3 million through 70,000 sub-projects at appraisal.



10
     Harvard-UNIDO Study on SMEs in Vietnam of 2013
11
 Vietnam Country Partnership Strategy for 2012-2016, Board Document Number R2011-0250 (Report
Number 65200-VN) dated November 7, 2011
12
     Vietnam Socio-economic Development Plan 2011-2015
                                                11
     Fund                   APPRAISAL (US$ M)                     END-OF-PROJECT (US$ M)
               Bank      PFI/End- Total                   Bank 13     PFI/End- Total
                         borrower Investment                          borrower Investment
                         Share                                        Share
     RDF       175.0     95.0     270.0 through           173.5+62.2 194.5     430.2 through
                                  45,750 sub-projects     =235.7               65,333 sub-projects
     MLF       10.0      4.3      14.3 through            12.9+17.1   27.1     57.2 through
                                  24,250 sub-projects     =30.0                70,341 sub-projects
     Total     185.0     99.3     284.3 through           186.4+79.3 221.6     487.4 through
                                  70,000 sub-projects     =265.7               135,674 sub-projects

The project leveraged every US$ of Bank assistance with an incremental contribution from PFIs and
end-borrowers of US$1.62 compared with the assumption of US$0.53 at appraisal 14. This substantial
increase in both investment and number of end-borrowers despite the expected average sub-project
cost increasing somewhat (US$6,859 versus appraised US$6,335 for RDF sub-project and US$812
versus appraised US$714 for MLF sub-project) was due to three specific reasons:

      (a) increase in the end-borrower and PFI contribution to the sub-project investment cost: the end-
          borrower contribution exceeded the appraised expectation of 15% to be as high as 29% for the
          medium term RDF sub-projects, and 22% for the short-term MLF sub-projects; the PFI
          contribution too exceeded the minimum 15% expected contribution to be 16% for RDF sub-
          projects and 25% for MLF sub-projects. In other words, the Bank share in the average sub-
          project investment reduced from the appraisal expectation of 65% to 55% for RDF sub-projects
          and from 70% to 53% for MLF sub-projects allowing the original allocation to the two lines of
          credit to leverage a significantly larger volume of investment;
      (b) deployment of repaid sub-project loans for subsequent rounds of lending: US$79.3 million
          repaid by end-borrowers during implementation was constituted as a Revolving Fund and
          deployed as an incremental line of credit to the PFIs for the subsequent round of lending. This
          generated an additional investment of US$144.6 million (30% of actual achievement) through
          about 50,400 sub-projects (42% of actual achievement). About 77% of the incremental
          investment amount financed under this revolving facility was for RDF sub-projects, and 70%
          of the number of sub-projects were for short-term MLF investment sub-projects);

      (c) overdrawing the MLF allocation: towards the close of the project, an amount of US$2.5
          million resulting from reduced spending on Component 3 was permitted to be overdrawn under
          the MLF component. Using the proportional contributions from PFIs and end-borrowers, this
          incremental allocation generated about US$4.8 million in additional investment (1% of actual
          achievement) through about 5,900 additional sub-projects (4.3% of actual achievement), all for
          short-term loans.

Even after adjusting the unexpected subsequent lending from the Revolving Fund, the project
generated an investment of US$341.3 million through about 79,000 sub-projects, 20% and 26.4%
higher than the respective appraisal estimates.




13
     Includes Revolving Fund share of US$79.3 million
14
  An investment of US$284.3 million with Bank support of US$185 million (incremental contribution of
US$99 million) was expected. This compares with actual investment realized of US$487.6 million with
US$186.4 million (incremental contribution of US$300 million realized)

                                                   12
In terms of household income increase 15 resulting from sub-project investments, 77% of surveyed
households showed an increase of more than US$300 per year. Due to the small investment under
MLF sub-projects, the income gains are also smaller: 38% of the sampled MLF sub-projects showed
incomes more than US$600 per year. On the other hand, given the large nature of the RDF sub-
projects, 62% of sub-projects had incomes exceeding US$600 per year.

For micro-and small enterprises, the survey indicated substantial income increases linked specifically
to project investments. Thirty-two percent of the surveyed enterprises demonstrated a typical annual
increase in income of more than US$50,000 as a result of the sub-project investments. Another 18%
of the enterprises reported an average annual increase of US$25,000-US$50,000, and 23%
experienced income increases of US$10,000-US$25,000. The profit impact was as follows: 18% of
the enterprises had an annual profit increase exceeding US$25,000, another 18% between US$12,500-
US$25,000, and 27% between US$5,000-US$12,500.

A similar assessment was carried out in 2011 16. In terms of household income increase resulting from
project investments, 86% of surveyed households showed an increase of more than US$290 per year.
For micro- and small enterprises, the survey indicated substantial income increases. More than two-
thirds of the surveyed enterprises demonstrated a typical annual increase in income of more than
US$18,000. Another 19% of the enterprises reported an average annual increase ranging between
US$6,300 and US$11,500. The profit impact was as follows: 38% of the enterprises had an annual
profit increase exceeding US$17,000, and nearly 20% of the enterprises, between US$ 12,000 and
US$17,000.

Two additional aspects need to be highlighted: the predominance of investments in the rural and
agricultural sectors, and the focus of investments in agriculture production hubs and poor regions.

Agriculture and livestock sectors constituted 58.1% (28.8% and 29.3% respectively), and
transportation (facilitating market connectivity) and machinery (facilitating mechanization) accounted
for 31.3% of RDF loans. In the livestock/breeding activities, construction of breeding facilities and
purchase of breeding animals dominated, and in agriculture, the sub-projects financed improvement of
vegetable gardens and tree crop planting. Aquaculture, processing and small handicraft made up
10.5%. Under MLF, the two key sectors were services/trading and livestock/cultivation with shares of
40.5% and 57.0% in the loans respectively. Clearly, assisted sub-projects have made significant
contribution to entrepreneurial investment in rural sectors.

The geographical focus indicates a dominance of investments in agricultural production and the poorer
regions of Vietnam. RDF loans provided financing in 58 out of 63 provinces throughout the country.
However, the major concentration is in two specific regions: (a) Mekong River Delta, the main
agricultural production region with 24.1% of total RDF loans; and (b) Northern Midland and
Mountainous region, which is the most disadvantaged and poorest area requiring injection of funds for
investment and development, with 21.3% of RDF loans. Likewise, MLF loans have been targeted at
poor households (mainly because these loans are very small) in rural areas in 21 provinces. Three
regions shared in this facility: (a) Mekong River Delta, but focused on small-scale farm production and
services/trading with 43.6%; (b) Northern Midland and Mountainous Region which is one of the
poorest regions in the country with 25.7%; and (c) Red River Delta with 19.7% of total MLF loans.
Clearly, assisted sub-projects have contributed significantly to further rural development in key
geographic production areas and to poverty reduction in the poorer rural regions.

Indicator 2: Incremental increase in employment. It is difficult to estimate accurately the number of
incremental jobs created under the project. However, based on a variety of approaches, the incremental
employment potentially generated through RDF sub-projects is estimated to range between 140,000
and 194,000, substantially more than the appraisal estimate of 100,000.


15
  The December 2013 Mekong socio-economic Survey covered 428 sub-projects (406 households and 22
enterprises; 318 RDF sub-projects and 110 MLF sub-projects)
16
  The November 2011 Mekong socio-economic Survey covered 517 sub-projects; 486 were households
and 31 were enterprises; 355 were RDF sub-projects and 132 were MLF sub-projects
                                               13
The December 2013 Mekong socio-economic survey yielded an average of 2.97 jobs created for each
RDF sub-project. Using this benchmark, the project is expected to have created a total of about
194,000 for 65,333 RDF sub-projects. At appraisal in 2009, a coefficient of one job per US$2,700
average investment was used, based on empirical evidence in Vietnam. This suggests that the
US$430.4 million RDF sub-project investment under the project could have created about 159,000
incremental jobs. The PMU data based on the expected incremental employment generation at sub-
project approval stage is about 140,000 for the RDF sub-projects (averaging about one job for every
US$3,140 RDF sub-project investment). All these estimates place the actual employment generated
well in excess of the 100,000 appraisal target.

PDO 2: Improved access to finance through enhanced PFI participation in rural sector lending. With
the availability of a sustained medium-to-long term fund to participating financial institutions as seed
capital to obtain hands-on experience of the rural markets, several institutions have been very
aggressive with their rural lending program. The project has clearly demonstrated that rural sub-
projects are indeed financially viable, and that the repayment rates are high with relatively low non-
performing loan level, and that they offer a strong portfolio diversification alternative to the traditional
non-rural/urban sectors for lending by the banks. The project has also shown that while the smaller
size of the loans increases the transaction cost, it also reduces the riskiness of non-payment usually
associated with a larger non-performing loan through both loan dispersion (across a very large range
of borrowers) and loan portfolio diversification (across a large range of rural sub-sectors). During the
project period, many PFIs have taken a mix of actions to deepen their offering of financial services in
the rural sector which cover evolving a strategy, a bundle of financial products and innovative ways to
access this sector. These initiatives are expected to continue to benefit the rural sector through a larger
number of financial institutions continuing to deepen their presence in the rural areas.

Strategic actions by PFIs: A range of strategic initiatives were taken by banks to provide access to
finance in the rural areas, notably: (a) allocating a separate and substantial fund for exclusive lending
to rural areas (SeaBank has specifically allocated VND 1 billion); (b) opening additional branches and
transaction points in selected high potential rural areas (Dong A and SeaBank); (c) opening branches
in mountainous areas (SHB, Dong A, and MHB); (d) more aggressively pursuing lending to
agriculture and rural sector (for example, VBARD) which was the core of the lending portfolio to
improve operating performance; (e) offering loans in the rural markets at preferential rates of interest
compared to conventional loans, or even holding the repayments on existing loans at the collecting
branches for subsequent rural re-lending at those branches; and (f) maintaining the on-lending rate of
the funds from BIDV as the transfer rate to the branches for rural loans to reduce the cost of branch
funds and to provide additional incentives to the branch staff to aggressively seek opportunities for
rural lending. Even VBARD, which is a traditional lender in this market, made a policy priority to
improve the technical and economic indicators for agricultural and rural project evaluation to more
accurately assess the feasibility of such loans. These strategies have helped PFIs to more successfully
expand their agricultural and rural market lending during project implementation.

Innovative rural financial products: Some PFIs actively designed new products to expand their rural
operations. A range of examples exist: one PFI (SHB) has aggressively pursued rice lending and
coffee plantation lending program in Central Highlands; another (Sacombank) has piloted a small rural
business program in Mekong River Delta region focused on floating market operators; a third (SGIT)
has deployed a retirement product for farmers; a fourth (VIB) PFI has implemented an agricultural and
farmer household program; and yet another PFI (ACB) has extended its rural program to include
lending to animal husbandry and post-processing industry in rubber cultivation.

Differentiated approach to access rural sector markets: Some PFIs actively associated with
professional associations and social organizations to increase lending in remote, mountainous and rural
areas (Dong A, VIB, and Seabank). VBARD and the PCFs, which are very familiar with rural and
agricultural markets, have strengthened cooperation with the Women's Union at all levels to stimulate
disbursement in rural areas, with attractive commissions provided to the Union for their services.
Some other PFIs have adopted a value chain lending model to reduce transaction costs (ACB
collaborates with food processing companies to provide loans to farmers who operate as suppliers to
these companies, or loans to sugarcane farmers who provide cane to sugar factories) on the basis of
commercial purchase contracts between the company and the farmers.


                                                 14
A number of PFIs that traditionally operated in urban areas have expanded their portfolio to include
agriculture, forestry and aquaculture. During the five year period from 2007 to 2012, outstanding
loans in these sectors grew at an annual rate of 15% (catching up with the rest of lending which grew
at 22% per annum). In absolute terms, outstanding loans increased by US$2.6 billion, from US$3.8
billion at the end of 2007 (before project commencement) to US$6.4 billion at end of 2012 (latest
available figures). About 20% of this incremental amount (US$487.4 million) is project-supported
investment.

Beyond the aggregate, the results have been very encouraging for a number of individual banks. VP
Bank increased its outstanding loans to these sub-sectors by 30 times, DongA Bank by 19 times, MB
Bank and ACB by 10 and 5 times respectively. Sacombank multiplied its outstanding portfolio to
these sub-sectors by 6 times, but the sheer volume of these rural loans catapulted the bank from the
fifth position to second, next only to VBARD in financing agriculture, forestry and aquaculture. This
healthy competition has reduced VBARD share of lending to these sub-sectors. This trend is evident
in the project where VBARD share in the sub-projects declined from 83% (50% of loan amount) at
project entry (2010) to 61% (41% of loan amount) at project closing (2013).

Compliance by PFIs with project accreditation criteria. A key eligibility requirement for PFI
participation in the project was compliance with the following accreditation criteria - capital adequacy
ratio, liquidity ratio, non-performing loans ratio, and return on equity and assets; in case of
shortcoming, participation was permitted but subject to preparation and implementation of an
Institutional Development Plan (IDP) to improve performance, to be closely monitored by the BIDV
PMU. This approach had a significant beneficial impact on the PFI performance over the project
period. The overall performance of the 18 PFIs which prepared IDPs is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
Twelve of the 18 PFIs achieved the accreditation criteria fully, and another three demonstrated a clear
move in that direction. Annex 5 provides an assessment and rating of the performance of all PFIs.
BIDV, as the implementing agency, consistently satisfied all five accreditation criteria. Several other
sector institutions also benefited from the training and TA support (see Section 3.5(b) Institutional
Change/Strengthening). The institutional development impact of the project is substantial.

3.3 Efficiency

Since the use of project funds was to be demand-driven, there was no ex ante estimate of the economic
or financial rate of return for individual sub-project or for the project as a whole at appraisal. However,
the eligibility criterion for sub-project financing was set at an ERR of 15% or higher. Therefore the
ERR for the whole project was to be in excess of 15%. The project design called for the division of
sub-loans into two categories by size, with each category being treated differently for the purpose of
financial and economic evaluation. Sub-loans over US$200,000 were expected to have an ex-ante
ERR of 15% prior to approval. Sub-loans less than US$200,000 were to have an estimated FRR
greater than 15%. The MLF sub-loans were by design expected to be less than US$500. The reason
for the smaller loans to use the FRR methodology was that the shadow wage rate was lower than the
financial wage rate, and using the ERR as an indicator would have invariably inflated the return on the
sub-loan.

The December 2103 Mekong Socio-economic Survey 17 provides an important counterfactual: 52.5%
of the end-borrowers indicated that they would not have undertaken the sub-project or would have
reduced their investment in the absence of access to project loan.

IRR/FRRs. The survey highlights the financial robustness of the portfolio. It covers a comprehensive
financial assessment of a sample of 130 assisted sub-projects (100 RDF-financed, and 30 MLF-
financed). For the 25 RDF sub-projects with loan amounts exceeding US$50,000, 89% of the loan
volume and 88% of the sub-projects showed an IRR exceeding 20%. For the 75 RDF sub-projects
with loans less than US$50,000, 91% of the loan volume and 88% of the sub-projects exhibited IRRs
higher than 16.7%. All of the 100 RDF sub-projects met the project-stipulated minimum IRR
requirement of 15%.


17
  The survey covered 428 respondents: 406 households and 22 enterprises; 308 RDF sub-projects and
110 MLF sub-projects
                                                 15
For the MLF sub-projects, all except two of the thirty sub-projects have FRR higher than the interest
rate on the loan indicating potential ease in loan repayment. Only three sub-projects have an FRR
lower than 15%. The return on owned capital contributed by the end-borrowers to the MLF sub-
projects is very robust indicating solid financial viability of these sub-projects.

The November 2011 Mekong Socio-economic Survey 18 indicated that close to 92% of the surveyed
end-borrowers reported an increase in their incomes, and more than 90% of the respondents indicated
that they would not have undertaken these investments (or would have done so on a smaller scale)
without the loan offered by the project, suggesting that the “without project” scenario income
generation effects would have been limited.
IRR/FRRs. An assessment was carried out as a part of the survey for a different set of 100 sub-
projects (70 RDF-financed, and 30 MLF-financed). For the RDF sample, more than 92% of the
loan volume and 94% of the 70 sub-projects showed an estimated IRR of over 15%. The
portfolio was found to be very robust, with more than 57% of the loan volume having projected
IRRs exceeding 25%. For the MLF sample, 100% of the 30 sub-projects showed FRRs well
over the 15% threshold.
Achievement on the four broad dimensions indicated in the PAD annex on Economic and
Financial Analysis, namely, increased rural investment, improved access to finance through
efficient bank intermediation, reduced poverty through incremental employment, and
incremental income from supported sub-projects is satisfactory. The financial sustainability of
sub-projects (FRR of more than 15%) is robust, and the project succeeded in achieving its
objective within the original project period.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The PDO was realized with all, but one (IDP performance was rated as Marginally Satisfactory),
indictors exceeding their appraisal targets, and with high efficiency. The project resulted in a
significant increase in longer term lending to the rural sector which led to better access to credit by the
poor, and increased incomes. It also resulted in positive institutional development in the banking
system.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts. That the project supported the poorer or poorest of the rural population is not easy to
infer. This certainly seems to be the case for RDF sub-loans which averaged US$6,859. However, the
predominance of VBARD in terms of the number of end-borrowers (69% of total) and the
substantially lower than average sub-project cost (US$3,743 for VBARD versus US$6,859 for all
PFIs) suggests that the household and SME lending through VBARD is most likely to have self-
selected towards the relatively poor since VBARD has a wide network in underserved and generally
poorer areas. The lending also seemed to reach those who, while obviously somewhat above the
poverty line for those eligible for Bank for Social Policy loans, were not far above, being classified as
the "fairly poor". The December 2013 Socio-economic Survey showed that for RDF sub-projects
sample, the proportion of poor, near poor and preferential treatment households was about 6%.

For the MLF component, though, the US$500 cap on loan size from the credit line is likely to have
resulted in self-selection towards the poorer borrowers. The average sub-project size was US$812.
The predominance of VBARD and PCFs in lending under this component (60% of total) also indicates
that there was probably a relatively large focus on the poorer end-borrowers compared to RDF sub-
projects. One would not expect the poorest to be borrowers since they are serviced by the Vietnam


18
  The assessment covered 517 sub-projects and 10 participating financial institutions; 486 were
households and 31 were enterprises; 355 were RDF sub-projects and 132 were MLF sub-projects
                                                  16
Bank for Social Policy under their separate subsidized lending program. However, the November
2011 Socio-economic Survey indicated that about 30% of the MLF end-borrowers were in fact poor
and many were the target clientele of VBSP assistance (but unable to benefit due to the very small loan
size). Similar findings were obtained by the December 2013 Socio-economic Survey which showed
that for MLF sub-projects sample, the proportion of poor, near poor and households under preferential
treatment policy was about 4%.

Another important indicator of poverty focus is the geographical distribution of the project
investments. Of the total project fund (including the revolving fund for subsequent round of lending)
of US$265.7 million spread over 58 of the 63 provinces of Vietnam, US$115 million or 45% was
concentrated in 32 poor provinces (those with poverty rates exceeding the national average of 14.2%).
About 28% of the project funds were loaned in just 15 provinces with poverty rates exceeding 25%
(mainly provinces in the Northern Midlands and Mountainous Areas, Northern Central and Central
Coastal, and Central Highland regions).

A final point here is the access to finance for a very large number of first time borrowers. While this
was not a condition for MLF end-borrower eligibility which was basically targeting the poorer sections
of the population, 39,588 end-borrowers (close to 56% of the 70,341 MLF end-borrowers) accessed
finance for the first time from the formal financial sector institutions, reducing their exposure to the
high-cost informal sources of financing.

Gender Aspects. The project had a specific focus by design to have at least 40% of the end-borrowers
under the MLF as women. This was consistently kept is sight by the PFIs with the result that the
women’s share in MLF end-borrowers averaged at 51% (35,989 out of total MLF end-borrowers of
70,341). For the entire portfolio (both RDF and MLF sub-loans), the share of women end-borrowers
was 41% (55,481 women out of 135,674 end-borrowers).

Social Development. An important impact of the project was the awareness of environmental aspects
among end-borrowers. Mitigating measures helped to alleviate the negative impacts surrounding some
activities resulting in enhancing the well-being of the end-borrowers and workers. For example, end-
borrowers started to use pesticides in the permitted list and also embraced safe use practices which
protected farm labor from adverse effects of improper use. The brick kilns used humidifiers to reduce
the dust/dirt, clearing the work place atmosphere and improving breathing condition for workers.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The institutional impact of the technical assistance through international consulting assignments, and
training and study tours under the project is huge: a further strengthened BIDV, an effective and
efficiently operating VAPCF and some PCF members, empowered VINASME and some SME
members, and the readiness of the Banking Supervision Agency (BSA) in supervising micro-financial
institutions. Completion of VBARD consultancies, although completed, was delayed and hence it is
difficult to ascertain their capacity building impact at ICR stage. More than 17,000 PFI and sector
agency staff was trained compared with the project target of 4,000.
Impact of Technical Assistance and Training: BIDV has benefited tremendously from the three
consultancies and staff training. The project has already evolved a Vision 2020 and Strategy 2011-15
for its future operation, put in operation a stress testing and early warning system and operational risk
management system, developed a score card linking its operations to strategy, and a dashboard for
operational management, among other initiatives. BIDV has gone beyond and sourced consultants
from internal resources to implement the dashboard and the balance score card throughout the bank. Its
revised risk manuals, including a business continuity plan, are also under implementation. Local
training on bank operations and two overseas training visits to Australia and US on modern bank
management have exposed the senior management to understanding international financial markets
and products and the impact of globalization, technology and risks on the banking sector.
Completion of the two VBARD consultancies was delayed and hence it is difficult to ascertain their
capacity building impact. It is, however, expected to benefit from the branch efficiency and risk
management consultancies (pilots already tested and training already provided), particularly as it gets
ready to implement its longer-term restructuring plan to remain effective and efficient. VBARD staff
training in SME and household lending, relationship management, risk assessment and management,
                                                17
and lending products adjustment has also helped it to become more responsive to their rural clients.
Local training on risk management and bank products/services and international training on growth
strategy of foreign banks and experiences in providing bank products/services in rural areas built
capacity in these areas.
Other PFI staff received local training covering various topics from professional knowledge such as
asset and liability management, risk management, internal control, managing bad debts to soft skills
such as negotiation skills, dealing with customers, and presentation, as well as other topics that support
the daily works of staff and improve their work performance. Several study tours to other countries
covering agricultural value chain lending, agricultural equipment leasing, and unsecured lending/loans
without collateral were also carried out to generate awareness.
VAPCF used the training and study tours to learn about the cooperative credit sector elsewhere in the
world to inform the Cooperative Banking legislation and to better define the roles and responsibilities
of the PCF sector participants. This helped shape the transformation of the Central Credit Fund into
the Cooperative Bank, and the possible options available in terms of products and services that the CB
could offer to the PCF members. This will be the basis for future legal work in defining the
operational framework for PCFs. VAPCF has restructured and reorganized its departments, embraced
the vision to evolve as a supervision agency, have a deeper regional presence, and be the voice of its
members. Under a separate consultancy, critical modules for PCF operation have been developed and
PCF staff has been trained in a range of very useful themes such as internal controls, credit
management, and internal auditing to continue to strengthen other PCFs seeking training support. A
dashboard has already been developed to monitor and help manage PCF operations, which is now
ready for installation. About 2,700 senior management executives of PCFs received leadership skills
training, and this has brought about significant enduring management improvements in these
institutions. These initiatives are now expected to be extended to other PCF sector constituents.
For VINASME, the project helped develop a strategy for its evolution into a national SME institution
over the next few years. The concept of setting up representation offices in provinces with potential
has been developed too but will be revisited after demand for assistance picks up and funding for its
sustainable operation is assured. More than 660 SME leaders received training in strategy, business
planning, market assessment, product planning and innovation, quality management, financial and risk
management. The VINASME staff has received training in all of these critical modules to perpetuate
the support model by doing problem analysis and developing solutions for the SME membership.
For BSA, the project developed a strategy for supervision and inspection policy for entities in the PCF
and MFI sector. Recommendations relating to policy and process improvements for regulation,
licensing, inspection and supervision, and skills mix required have been provided. Manuals have been
prepared for on-site and off-site inspection for both BSA and SBV officers, followed by critical issues-
based inspection training for about 300 staff. The manuals are awaiting SBV approval after which
they will be deployed for PCF/MFI inspection activity. Training of staff on MFI supervision
(overseas), local training, and study tours to Germany, South Korea to understand the risk-based
approach to MFI inspection are some other useful contributions of the project.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The higher than expected contribution by the end-borrowers and the PFIs resulted in a significantly
higher leveraging effect of Bank funds. Also, the deployment of repaid loans for subsequent lending
created an expected source of funding which was not provided for at appraisal. This helped to
generate both a larger volume of loans and a larger number of the end-borrowers. Nearly 194% of the
original project target of 70,000 end-borrowers and nearly 172% of the investment target was achieved.
The December 2013 Socio-economic Survey found the following additional impacts of lending to
rural entrepreneurs and households: (a) end-borrowers became aware of other financial services
offered by the PFIs such as money transfers, ATM facilities, electronic banking; (b) through regular
interaction between the rural clients and the PFI, banking transactions increased, and with the demand
for loans, end-borrowers established a relationship and trust in banks and borrowed less from other
informal sources of credit; (c) end-borrowers ended up with a better understanding of the credit
operations, specifically becoming familiar with completing loan procedures. Many respondents found
the loan procedures simple and convenient, and despite being assisted by the credit officers, end-

                                                18
borrowers were directly involved in the preparation and completion of their loan applications which
helped them to better understand the banking rules and procedures.
The environment screening requirements had better than intended results. Originally designed as a
safeguard measure for the project, these environmental procedures for banks were adopted by a
number of PFIs for broader use in their lending operations.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low/Negligible

There are a number of reasons contributing to this assessment.

   (a) Low riskiness of the portfolio. The project financed portfolio is diversified across a range of
       sectors (cultivation, aquaculture, livestock, services, transport, SMEs, among others). The
       credit risk is also low given that more than 40% of the project end-borrowers are women
       (generally perceived to be less risky in global rural financial sector), and that the PFI/end-
       borrower contribution to financing the project cost is substantially higher than appraisal
       expectation of 15% each. The PFIs, in particular, bear the credit risk and there is therefore
       every incentive for them to closely monitor the performance of the sub-projects. The high end-
       borrower contribution is demonstrative of a potentially high degree of their commitment to the
       continued operation of the sub-projects. Unless economic conditions deteriorate drastically,
       there is no reason to expect the positive results so far to be reversed;
   (b) Reasonably robust portfolio. The longer term sustainability of the project depends on the
       profitability of investments made by the end-borrowers. The income generated by the sub-
       projects and the overall share of high IRR/FRR sub-projects in the portfolio provides a sense of
       comfort about the financial viability of the sub-projects and projected low failure rates. This is
       further strengthened by the regular loan installment repayments until now and the low overdue-
       to-outstanding loans ratio (0.42% for both RDF and 0.12% for MLF loans), with overdue ratio
       being significantly lower than the overall non-performing loans ratio of the banks for their
       conventional non-rural loans portfolio;
   (c) Low individual PFI, VBARD and BIDV exposure: With a significantly reduced share of
       VBARD in the total portfolio (40% of total portfolio loan amount compared with 50% at start-
       up; and 61% of sub-project compared to 83% at start-up), the relative magnitude of its
       exposure to losses from project-financed portfolio is lower than the predecessor RF projects.
       With a high PFI/end-borrower contribution to sub-project cost, the proportional share of Bank
       funds routed through the wholesale bank, BIDV, to the total investment has reduced from the
       expected 70% to about 54%. This has reduced the relative size of BIDV risk exposure too.
       With nine PCFs and an additional 19 banks (two banks having been restructured), the riskiness
       of the portfolio is also dispersed across a larger number of institutions, reducing the average
       PFI risk exposure;
   (d) Satisfactory overall institutional performance: The performance of all PFIs was consistently
       monitored and areas for improvement identified and reviewed for implementation through
       IDPs. Based on individual PFI performance, the size of the line of credit was regularly
       adjusted to manage the riskiness of the institution’s share in the portfolio (increased, decreased,
       maintained, and in some cases disbursement was even suspended). At project closing, the
       aggregate performance of all PFIs was assessed and rated Marginally Satisfactory (refer to
       Annex 5 for the assessment). Some PFIs did get restructured but BIDV was able to mitigate
       the risk relating to non-payment of the project line of credit through early discussions with
       SBV.


                                                19
   (e) Longer term loans: Funds under the MLF line of credit has ensured that the banks have a
       reliable line of credit for a longer period to be able to offer longer term loans. The banks may
       not have moved to longer term lending (> 3 years maturity) but they have transitioned
       somewhat from the short-term maturity loans and are now closer to the cusp between medium-
       longer term lending (2-3 years maturity). Access to the lines of credit has had a multiplier
       effect under the three RF projects (see Section 2.5) on medium-term loans. More importantly,
       since there has been an aggressive focus by the PFIs on lending to the rural sector, it is
       expected that, over a period of time, this will open up the banks to consider investments in this
       sector on a more sustained basis, perhaps by offering longer term loans to maturing borrowers.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The project built on the successful design of the predecessor RF projects and did incorporate a range
of innovative design aspects which significantly improved its responsiveness to issues faced by the
financial sector, particularly enlarging the scope of TA recipients to all PFIs and select financial and
real sector entities such as SBV, BSA, VAPCF, and VINASME, and focusing more on medium-longer
term investment needs compared to short term requirements. The international best practice approach
to set eligibility criteria at normative bank supervision standards for banks and micro-financial
institutions for project participation was adopted to permit banks that complied with all criteria to
participate in the project. Those that were somewhat deficient were required to prepare a time-bound
remediation plan to achieve the standard criteria creating an incentive system to improve overall
performance. It also embedded external evaluation and environmental audit studies as a part of the
comprehensive M&E framework. The Bank team deliberately left interest rate and other policy
aspects to other more appropriate projects (Financial Sector Modernization and Information System
Project (P088759), Payment System and Bank Modernization Project (P082627), Financial Market
Infrastructure Development (P105198), Policy Note on Banking Sector Reform (P112285), and
PRSCs’ efforts to modernize the central bank, increase disclosures of relevant financial information,
and contribute to the development of the financial sector in general) that were under implementation or
preparation at that time. The project certainly helped to continue an already successful sector
engagement with the government of Vietnam by moving quickly to this third phase of supporting
investment for rural development.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The team fielded on average two implementation support missions every year, all of which were very
effective in identification of issues and problems and recommending appropriate solutions. Key
examples of solid support relate to: (a) balancing the lending portfolio away from a dominance of
lending to transport sector in the initial stages of the project at the risk of slowing disbursement; (b)
regularly reviewing the performance of the Institutional Development Plans and identifying areas for
improvement; (c) discussing the redefinition of the on-lending rate from BIDV to the PFIs and a
reformulation of the rate every month resulting from the intense interest rate volatility to continue to
maintain the attractiveness of the credit lines to the PFIs; (d) providing guidance through sharing
international banking sector developments with local banks to develop a strategy for their operations;
(e) developing a workable solution to provide training by reformatting individual PFI responsibility for
training to aggregating the needs of the PFIs and arranging PFI-wide training programs on a cost-
sharing basis to obviate individual PFI procurement challenges and obtain scale benefits; and (f)
monitoring the environmental aspects to ensure compliance and helping banks mainstream the
environmental screening systems. Almost all missions benefited from the contributions of specialists
from Environmental and Finance and Private Sector Development teams who specifically reviewed
compliance with safeguard requirements, and participated in discussions with VBARD and BIDV on
operating performance with their top management teams. A significant impact on institutional
development of banks was also achieved through the technical advice provided during missions.


                                                20
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank’s performance relating to a significantly improved project design was complemented by
strong support during implementation, helping to bring the project to a successful closure, achieving,
and even exceeding, all of the indicator targets relating to the development objective.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The government remained fully committed to the project. There was an injection of equity in VBARD
and also steps were taken to restructure its management and operation. The SBV modified the
regulations relating to capital adequacy norm and minimum capital requirement to strengthen the
financial position of the banks, and also expeditiously modified the formula for the on-lending interest
rate determination (deposit-linked) to keep the cost of the project lines of credit to the banks
competitive vis-à-vis lower cost deposits when deposit rates started to plummet. Where it fell short
was the introduction of intermittent interest caps on lending and deposits which was to contain
inflation, make the deposit mobilization efforts less competitive and maintain the lending rates at a
reasonable level. These measures were the result of the global financial crisis.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The project was implemented by BIDV through a dedicated PMU, staffed with a range of skills
required for management of project of this nature and size. There was start-up benefit resulting from
the continuity of the PMU from the predecessor RF II project which officially closed on September 30,
2009, well after this project became effective in February 2009. The unit led the project to a good
launch, monitored the quality of the PFIs entering the project through a stringent review of the criteria,
reviewed the performance against the Institutional Development Plans, carried out field missions to
review fiduciary and safeguard compliance, worked closely with the PFIs to engage them in seeking
support of the project technical assistance, strengthened institutions by arranging training, submitted
periodic financial monitoring reports, commissioned the required covenanted socio-economic surveys
and environmental audits, deliberated with SBV to protect the funding of the Bank in relation to weak
banks lending through project lines of credit, working with SBV to adjust the on-lending rate formula,
and preparing the borrower Completion Report. BIDV also adjusted some of its internal policies
based on lessons learned from the project through extensive technical assistance, and the PMU proved
to be a training ground for future senior level bank executives. The efficiency of the PMU facilitated
and supported the Bank missions in assessing project performance and focusing on core
implementation issues. Overall, the PMU’s management of this complex project was excellent.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Both government through SBV, and BIDV through the PMU, demonstrated continued commitment to
the project and its objective, and facilitated smooth implementation of the project.

6. Lessons Learned
   (a) Micro-financial institutions may be small but they have the advantage of proximity to the
       clients and deep outreach. Such institutions invariably operate unsupervised and outside the
       framework of the banking regulation, and given the limited size of their equity and managerial
       capacity, face constraints to growth. An important action would be to put in place an enabling
       regulatory framework and supervision system, assess the viability of such institutions, explore
       the possibility of consolidating these into larger and stronger institutions which could have a
       wider operational jurisdiction and offer a wider range of financial services. These could then

                                                21
       become significant participants in deepening the access to financial services in the under-
       served or unserved rural areas.
   (b) The international best practice approach to set eligibility criteria at normative bank supervision
       standards for banks and micro-financial institutions to participate in the project seems to work
       well by creating a three-tier system: (i) permitting banks that comply with all criteria to
       participate; (ii) requiring those banks that are somewhat deficient to participate but prepare a
       time-bound remediation plan to achieve the standard criteria creating an incentive system to
       improve overall performance; and (iii) leaving out those banks that are inherently weak. The
       important action that should be taken is to regularly monitor the performance of the
       participating institutions, particularly those with remediation plans, and adjust the lines of
       credit offered to them based on their performance against the standard criteria to manage the
       riskiness of the portfolio.
   (c) Even where it is clearly demonstrated that rural and agricultural sector lending is indeed
       profitable and not as risky as perceived, private banks invariably have the tendency to avoid
       smaller loans which are widely dispersed and have a high transaction cost. Fewer and larger
       loans are preferred. This is clearly evidenced in the project. If therefore, the objective is to
       provide access to poorer and remotely located potential rural clients, then private banks alone
       may not serve the purpose. Working through a dominant public sector bank(s) to provide
       extended outreach may be an inevitable course of action.
   (d) Studies relating to strategy for penetration of rural markets and training for staff orientation to
       better understand the risks related to agricultural lending and approaching small and medium
       rural enterprises are an important mechanism to provide opportunities for private banks to
       explore provision of rural financial services. An ambitious technical assistance and capacity
       building program, such as the one implemented under the project, should be supplemented with
       continuous support and hand-holding from the Bank project team to be successful.
   (e) Capacity building in banks and micro-financial institutions is an important pre-requisite for
       them to function effectively in rural areas. It is however difficult and financially sub-optimal
       for such institutions to organize training courses for their limited staff on their own. A better
       approach to achieve economies of scale is to identify training needs and conduct training
       courses of high quality for such institutions at an aggregated level on a cost-sharing basis
       through local or international experts.

   (f) During stable periods, the determination of cost of line of credit to the participating financial
       institutions may be adjusted (based on the prevailing deposit rates) at longer time intervals.
       However, during volatile times, particularly when the deposit rates are declining, frequent
       adjustments are required to keep the cost of the line of credit competitive and attractive for the
       institutions vis-a-vis cheaper deposits.

   (g) Participating financial institutions clearly supported a review of the sub-projects for their
       environmental impacts. In many cases, identification of environmental issues and
       implementation of a management plan clearly found favor with the environment management
       agencies which allowed continued operation of the sub-projects without jeopardizing regular
       repayment of the loan installments to the banks. Many banks have indeed selectively
       incorporated the environmental screening requirement as a part of their loan application review
       process.

   (h) An approach that links line of credit with compliance with accreditation criteria has huge
       potential to effect institutional change. The project not only reduced poverty through project
       sub-loans but also resulted in significant institutional improvement in the participating banks
       through continuous and rigorous monitoring of their performance against key performance
       standards and adjusting the size of their lines of credit in response to their operational
       performance.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

                                                22
Written comments were received from BIDV on May 29, 2014 relating to safeguards and fiduciary
aspects. It also included an updated version of the Summary of Borrower’s ICR which is appended to
this ICR as Annex 6.

(b) Co-financiers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                             23
                                   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                                  Percentage
                Components                            Estimate
                                  (USD millions)                                      of Appraisal
                                                      (USD millions)
A .Increase Capital Investment
                                         250.00               430.41                          172
by Rural Enterprises
B. Increase Access to Micro-
                                          14.30                57.27                          400
finance in Rural Economy
C. Build Institutional Capacities
                                          13.50                11.97                           89
and New Products
  (a) Strengthening BIDV                    1.30                1.47                          113
  (b) Building participating
      financial institutions                7.60                6.25                           82
      (including VBARD)
  (c) Expanding into New
                                            4.60                4.25                           92
      Markets
Total Baseline Cost                      277.80               499.65                          180
Physical Contingencies
                                                    0.70                   0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                    0.80                   0.00
Total Project Costs                               279.30                 499.65               180
Total Financing Required                          279.30 19              499.65               180

(b) Financing
                                                                Appraisal
                                                                             Actual/
                                           Type of Co-          Estimate                     Percentage
                 Source of Funds                                             Latest Estimate
                                           financing            (USD                         of Appraisal
                                                                             (USD millions)
                                                                millions)
Borrower                                             Joint 20          80.00         221.86         277
International Development
                                                                      200.00        198.38            99.8
Association (IDA) 21
Revolving Fund 22                                                      0.00          79.41
                                                                      280.00        499.65            180




19
     Rounded off to US$280 million at appraisal
20
   Each sub-project investment cost is jointly financed by IDA line of credit through the participating
financial institution, and contribution by the participating financial institution and the end-borrower
21
  SDR-US$ exchange rate variation left the original credit allocation of SDR127.7 million (equivalent to
US$200 million) at US$198.77 million. Actual disbursement at US$198.38 million is 99.8% of this
reduced available credit amount
22
  The project did not provide for any revolving fund contribution. However, deployment of repayments
for additional loans resulted in this becoming an important source of financing the subsequent round of
investments loans without any additional disbursement from the credit
                                                       24
                                     Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Increase Capital Investment by Rural Enterprises – Rural Development Fund (RDF)
                                     Unit      Appraisal     Actual at Project Closing
                                               Estimate
 Aggregate line of credit loan       US$       175.0 23
                                                  173.5 (Achieved). Considering the
 amount                              million      revolving fund amount, the aggregate
                                                  funding is about 235.7
 Average loan size 24          US$    5,000       4,019
 Share of Bank financing       %      65 25       55 (Fully achieved). Better than
                                                  expected, with lower Bank share
                                                  indicating a high level of PFI/end-
                                                  borrower commitment
 Share of PFI and end-         %      35          45, with PFI share at 16 and end-borrower
 borrower financing                               share at 29 (Fully achieved). Better than
                                                  expected, with a higher level of PFI and
                                                  end-borrower commitment than
                                                  estimated at appraisal
 Total number of loans         Number 45,750 26   65,333 (Fully achieved)
 Overdue as a percent of loans %      Less than 5 0.42 (Fully achieved). Actual loan volume
 outstanding                                      was US$304 million (Bank share: 173.5
                                                  million + US$62.2 million (Revolving
                                                  Fund) + PFI share of US$68.8 million)
As of December 31, 2013, a total of 65,333 sub-projects were financed, with a total investment value
of US$430.2 million. The average value of a sub-project was US$6,589, of which 55% was financed
by RDF loan (averaging US$ 3,610), 16% by PFIs and 29% by end-borrowers. The repayment
performance was near 100%, with the overdue rate being a mere 0.42%. The portfolio has the
following key attributes:
      (a) It is adequately diversified as follows: investment in cultivation (28.8%), livestock (29.3%),
          transport vehicles (20.3%), machinery and workshops (11.0%), and aquaculture, processing
          and handicrafts (10.5%).
      (b) The investment support is indeed focused on the poorer regions in the country. The poorest
          Northern Midlands and Mountainous region (21%), the Central Highlands region (17%), and
          the North Central and Central Coastal areas (19%) account for 57% of the RDF line of the
          credit disbursement amount.
      (c) The investment support is also focused on the agriculture production hub of Vietnam - Mekong
          Delta Region. This accounts for 24% of the RDF line of the credit disbursement amount.
      (d) VBARD continues to be the single largest lender of this fund, accounting for 69% of the
          number of sub-projects. The sub-project investment value of its portfolio is only 39% of total,
          indicating the lowest average sub-project cost of US$3,743 compared with the average cost of
          US$6,589. It is therefore targeted to the relatively poorer segments of the rural population.
      (e) Sacombank, SaiGon HN, and Dong A Bank account for 21% of the number of sub-projects,
          and 31% of the investment portfolio. These three banks have a strong agriculture, animal

23
  This seems to have incorrectly shown as US$155 million in the Results Framework since the
component allocation is, in fact, US$175 million
24
   Based on the Results Framework which indicates an average loan size of about US$5,000 (both Bank
line of credit and PFI contribution)
25
     Based on the Results Framework assumption of 65% IDA share in the sub-project investment cost
26
   This number is shown as 43,600 in the Results Framework. With a 65% share of the project credit line,
and another 20% from PFIs, total sub-project investment was estimated at US$270 million. The loan for
the end-borrowers would be US$230 million. At US$5,000 average loan size to end-borrowers, this
translates into about 45,750 sub-projects
                                                   25
        husbandry and aquaculture portfolio. The Co-op Bank and 8 PCFs account for a mere 1.2% of
        the number of sub-projects with 4.2% investment, and the remaining 15 private banks have
        8.8% of the number of sub-projects but close to 25.8% of the investment. The Cooperative
        Bank (erstwhile Central Credit Fund) and 8 PCFs account for a mere 1% of the number of sub-
        projects with 3.8% investment. A key reason for the low PCF participation is that the quantum
        of the line of credit allocated is based on the equity of the PCFs, and since these are relatively
        small institutions with limited own funds, the line of credit allocations are also relatively small,
        making it difficult to offer large investment loans.
Component 2: Increase Access to Microfinance in Rural Economy – Microfinance Loan Fund (MLF)
                               Unit         Appraisal              Actual at Project Closing
                                            Estimate
 Aggregate line of credit      US$          10.0                   12.9 (Fully achieved). Considering
 Loan amount                   million                             the revolving fund amount, the
                                                                   aggregate funding is about 30.0
 Average loan size 27          US$          500                    633 (Fully achieved)
 Share of Bank financing       %            Not to exceed 70       52.5 (Fully achieved). Better than
                                                                   expected, with lower Bank share
                                                                   indicating a high level of PFI/end-
                                                                   borrower commitment
 Share of PFI and end-         %            30 (PFI: end-          47 (PFI: end-borrower share at 25:22).
 borrower financing                         borrower share at      (Fully achieved). Better than expected,
                                            15:15)                 with a higher level of PFI and end-
                                                                   borrower commitment than estimated
                                                                   at appraisal
 Total number of loans 28      Number       24,250                 70,341 (Fully achieved)
 First time borrowers          Number       16,000                 39,588 (Fully achieved)
 Share of micro-finance        %            More than 40 over      51 (Fully achieved)
 sub-loans to women                         project life
As of December 31, 2013, a total of 70,341 micro-loans were disbursed, of which 56% went to first-
time borrowers and 51% to women. On average, MLF has financed 53% of US$57.2 million
investment costs with PFIs and end-borrowers each contributing about 25.3% and 22.3% respectively.
Hence, while the average amount borrowed from the MLF was US$425, the average micro-loan was
US$633 (with PFI contribution) and the average sub-project size US$812 (with end-borrower
contribution). The loan repayment performance was near 100%, with the overdue rate being a mere
0.12%. The portfolio has the following key attributes:
     (a) About 57% all micro-loans (value) financed cultivation and animal husbandry, and 41%
         trading.
     (b) In terms of regional distribution, the poorest Northern Midlands and the Mountainous region
         (26%), the Central Highlands (3%), and the North Central and Central Coastal areas (5%)
         received a total of 34% of the total funds disbursement from the MLF line of credit.
     (c) About 44% of the disbursement from the MLF line of credit is in the agriculture production
         hub – Mekong Delta region.
     (d) VBARD dominated the loan portfolio with 53% of the number of sub-projects and loan
         amount. With VBARD presence in some of the remotest and the poorest regions in the country,
         there is some degree of self-selection of the portfolio targeted to the poorer sections of the rural
         areas.



27
   Based on the Results Framework which indicated a maximum sub-loan size of US$500 from the Bank
line of credit
28
  This number is shown as 16,000 for Year 4. There is no target for Year 5 in the Results Framework.
With a 70% share of the project credit line, total sub-project investment was estimated at US$14.3 million.
The total loan amount extended to the end-borrowers, assuming a 15% PFI share, would be US$12.1
million. At US$500 average loan size to end-borrowers, this translates into about 24,250 sub-projects
                                                   26
     (e) Sacombank has 39%, and the remaining 7.7% of the sub-projects is shared between seven
         PCFs and two private banks. Some of the reasons for the poor participation by the private
         banks perhaps could be that the transaction cost of catering to smaller-sized loans is prohibitive,
         and that these banks really do not have the outreach to provide loans to the not so easily
         accessible rural areas.
Component 3: Build Institutional Capacities and New Products Development
                                         Unit                  Appraisal              Actual at Project
                                                               Estimate               Closing
     BIDV - Compliance with              Rating on a four      Rating to be           Satisfactory – all five
     Accreditation Criteria or           point                 accorded during        criteria met
     Institutional Development Plan      scale – Satisfactory, project
                                         Marginally            implementation
                                         Satisfactory,
                                         Marginally
                                         Unsatisfactory,
                                         Unsatisfactory
     Other Participating Financial       Rating on a four      Rating to be           Marginally
     Institutions - Compliance with      point                 accorded during        Satisfactory (see
     Accreditation Criteria or           scale – Satisfactory, project                Annex 5 for details)
     Institutional Development Plan      Marginally            implementation
                                         Satisfactory,
                                         Marginally
                                         Unsatisfactory,29
                                         Unsatisfactory
     Cumulative bank staff trained 30    Number                4,000                  17,664
                                                                                      (Fully achieved)
     Training materials prepared for     Materials              Prepared by           Prepared by
     SME training modules                                       Year 3                Year 4 (Fully achieved)
Although not included in the list of activities/outputs, the extent of technical assistance through
international consultancies, local training, international study tours, and international training visits
had a significant impact on the institutional development and strengthening not only of the PFIs but
also of a range of sector agencies. A brief summary is provided below.
     (a) BIDV: Local training and two overseas training visits to Australia and US on modern bank
         management; and three consultancies: Operational Risk Management, Strategic Management,
         and Credit Management;
     (b) VBARD: Local training on risk management and bank products/services; international training
         on growth strategy of foreign banks and experiences in providing bank products/services in
         rural areas; and two consultancies: Credit Risk Management (which also covered some other
         related topics included in the PAD) and Branch Efficiency Improvement;
     (c) Other PFIs: Local training covering various topics from professional knowledge such as asset
         and liability management, risk management, internal controls, managing bad debts to soft skills
         such as negotiation skills, dealing with customers, and presentation, as well as other topics that
         support the daily works of staff and improve their work performance; and several study tours to
         other countries covering agricultural value chain lending, agricultural equipment leasing, and
         unsecured lending/loans without collateral;
     (d) VAPCF: Training courses for member PCFs including leadership courses and development of
         detailed manuals for supervision of PCFs by VAPCF; and study tours to Germany, China,
         Thailand, Singapore and Malaysia to study the cooperative model which has informed the
         strategy for conversion of Central Credit Fund into a Cooperative Bank;


29
  There was no estimate of the number of PFIs that would participate in the project or require
Institutional Development Plans. This was to be the result of project implementation
30
   Based on results Framework which indicate Domestic Training target only covering topics relating to
risk management, loan pricing, rural client management, and lending techniques, among others
                                                     27
   (e) VINASME: Training modules and training for its constituent SMEs; strategy for VINASME
       operational and Business Advisory Center services support model;
   (f) BSA: Training of staff on MFI supervision (overseas), local training, study tours to Germany,
       South Korea to understand the risk-based approach to MFI inspection, and development of
       inspection manuals and strategy for MFIs;
   (g) New product development: consultancy on cash-flow based lending; and study tours to
       understand a range of new products offered in other countries.
A number of other key consultancies were also financed under this component: (a) Mid-term socio-
economic survey; (b) End-of-project socio-economic survey; (c) Consultancy to support compliance
with environmental requirements; (d) Mid-term environmental audit; (e) End-of-project environmental
audit; and (f) Study on operational aspects of five selected PCFs.
Two consultancies planned at appraisal were not carried out: (a) insuring against agricultural risks; and
(b) generating long-term funds. The implementing agency believed that these studies should have been
preceded by a feasibility study for their application in the Vietnamese context to establish their
justification before the studies could be undertaken.




                                                28
                              Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

As this was a financial intermediary credit project, no ex-ante estimate was made at appraisal of the
entire project’s likely Economic Rate of Return (ERR), Net Present Value (NPV) or Financial Rate of
Return (FRR). This is because the on-lending was demand based and it was not clear, at that time,
what types of demand-led investments would be sought and how successful they would be. Instead a
minimum threshold ex-ante FRR of 15% was set for screening sub-projects.
The project design called for the division of sub-loans into two categories by size, with each category
being treated differently for the purpose of financial and economic evaluation. Sub-loans over
US$200,000 were expected to have an ex-ante ERR of 15% prior to approval. Sub-loans between
US$15,000-200,000 were to have an estimated FRR greater than 15%. It was expected that there
would be very few large loans based on the project expectation of the average sub-loan size to be
about US$5,000 for RDF loans. The MLF sub-loans were by design expected to be less than US$500.
The reason for the smaller loans to use the FRR methodology was that the shadow wage rate was
lower than the financial wage rate, and using the ERR as an indicator would have invariably inflated
the return on the sub-loan.
The assessment of project efficiency has been done at four levels. Performance against the indicators
suggests a reasonable level of efficiency in the achievement of the project development objective.
     (a)   Incremental income generated by the sub-projects;
     (b)   IRRs and FRRs of sub-projects financed by the project;
     (c)   Repayment performance of the portfolio; and
     (d)   Quality of life improvements
Data on (a), (b) and (d) above was generated through two socio-economic surveys, one at mid-term
(November 2011), and another at end-of-project (December 2013). Repayment performance was
based on the global data on loan repayment from all PFIs.
Incremental Income Generation
The Mekong Socio-economic Survey of December 2013 31 indicated that close to 94.3% of the
surveyed end-borrowers reported an increase in their incomes. On average, for the 428 sub-projects
surveyed, every US$ of sub-project investment generated an income of US$0.27 from the first year
onwards.
                     Table 1: Estimated Income Generated with US$1 Investment
                                                                                         US$
     Total investment (project loan + PFI loan + end-borrower contribution)           7,421,283
     Total financing by the RDF/MLF Fund                                              3,443,771
     Total incremental income                                                          968,295
     Incremental income per 1 US$ investment                                             0.27
     Incremental income per 1 US$ of RDF/MLF Fund                                        0.58

In terms of household income increase, 77% of households showed an increase of more than US$300
per year. Due to the small investment under MLF sub-projects, the incomes are also smaller: 38% of
the MLF sub-projects show incomes more than US$600 per year. On the other hand, given the large
nature of the RDF sub-projects, 62% of sub-projects have incomes exceeding US$600 per year. To
get a better appreciation of the viability of the sub-projects, a summary matrix of the range of income
generated from a different set of RDF and MLF sub-projects financed is provided below in Table 2.




31
  The assessment covered 428 sub-projects and 10 participating financial institutions; 406 were
households and 22 were enterprises; 318 were RDF sub-projects and 110 were MLF sub-projects
                                                  29
           Table 2: Range of Income Generated for Household Sub-projects – December 2013
     Income Range in       RDF Investment -        MLF Investment -      Combined for RDF
     US$/year              Average Sub-project     Average  Sub-project  and MLF
                           Cost of US$13,750 32    Cost of US$1,425
                           % of Sub-projects       % of Sub-projects     % of Sub-projects
     More than 2,980                 19                     11                   17
     1,790-2,980                     17                      1                   13
     600-1,790                       26                     26                   26
     300-600                         38                     62                   21
     Less than 300                                                               23
     Total                          100                    100                  100
For micro-and small enterprises, the survey indicated substantial income increases. Thirty-two
percent of the surveyed enterprises demonstrated a typical annual increase in income of more than
US$50,000. Another 18% of the enterprises reported an average annual increase of US$25,000-
US$50,000, and 23% experienced income increases of US$10,000-US$25,000. The profit impact was
as follows: 18% of the enterprises had an annual profit increase exceeding US$25,000, another 18%
between US$12,500-US$25,000, and 27% between US$5,000-US$12,500.
The Mekong Socio-economic Survey of November 2011 33 indicated that close to 92% of the surveyed
end-borrowers reported an increase in their incomes, and more than 90% of the respondents indicated
that they would not have undertaken these investments (or would have done so on a smaller scale)
without the loan offered by the project, suggesting that the “without project” scenario income
generation effects would have been limited.
In terms of household income increase, 86% of households showed an increase of more than US$290
per year. To get a better appreciation of the viability of the sub-projects, a summary matrix of the
range of incomes generated from RDF and MLF sub-projects financed over the 2009-2011 is provided
below in Table 3.

           Table 3: Range of Income Generated for Household Sub-projects – November 2011
     Income Range in       RDF Investment -        MLF Investment -      Combined for RDF
     US$/year              Average Sub-project     Average  Sub-project  and MLF
                           Cost of US$13,500 34    Cost of US$744
                           % of Sub-projects       % of Sub-projects     % of Sub-projects
     More than 2,850                 36                      0                   29
     1,700-2,850                     16                      0                   11
     570-1,700                       27                     25                   26
     290-570                         12                     42                   20
     Less than 290                    9                     33                   14
     Total                          100                    100                  100
For micro- and small enterprises, the survey indicated substantial income increases. More than two-
thirds of the surveyed enterprises demonstrated a typical annual increase in income of more than
US$18,000. Another 19% of the enterprises reported an average annual increase ranging between
US$6,300 and US$11,500. The profit impact was as follows: 38% of the enterprises had an annual
profit increase exceeding US$17,000, and nearly 20% of the enterprises, between US$ 12,000 and
US$17,000.



32
 Because sub-projects with project sub-loans less than US$50,000 comprise almost 94% of the surveyed
RDF loan portfolio, these have been used here to depict the average income generated
33
  The assessment covered 517 sub-projects and 10 participating financial institutions; 486 were
households and 31 were enterprises; 355 were RDF sub-projects and 132 were MLF sub-projects
34
  Because sub-projects with project sub-loans less than US$50,000 comprise almost 97% of the RDF
loan portfolio, these have been used here to depict the average income generated
                                                  30
Internal Rates of Return/Financial Rates of Return
A key indicator of the financial viability is the performance of the assisted sub-projects in terms
of the recalculated IRR/FRR.

The Mekong Socio-economic Survey of December 2013 covers a comprehensive assessment of a
different sample of 130 assisted sub-projects (100 RDF-financed, and 30 MLF-financed). It highlights
the continued financial robustness of the portfolio. For the 25 RDF sub-projects with loan amounts
exceeding US$50,000, 89% of the loan volume and 88% of the sub-projects showed an IRR of over
the 20%. For the 75 RDF sub-projects with loans less than US$50,000, 90% of the loan volume and
87% of the sub-projects exhibited IRR higher than 16.7%. All of the 100 RDF sub-projects met the
project-stipulated minimum IRR requirement of 15%.

                  Table 4: IRR for 25 RDF Sub-projects with Bank Loans    above US$ 50,000
                                                                        35
                           Share in                          Bank  loan
                                           Total investment per sub-       Average sub- Share in
IRR             Sub-                                                       project
                projects number            in sub-projects
                           of sub-projects (US$)             project       investment    total bank
                                                                                         loan
                                                             (US$)         (US$)
< 15%           0          0%              0                 0             0             0%
15 – 20%        3          12%             586,190           82,795        195,395       10.8%
20 – 25%        9          36%             1,520,964         92,731        168,997       36.4%
25 – 30%        4          16%             514,009           86,935        128,505       15.2%
30 – 40%        6          24%             751,316           85,279        125,221       22.3%
> 40%           3          12%             488,872           115,913       162,956       15.2%
Total           25         100%            3,861,401         91,605        154,456       100%
            Table 5: IRR for 75 RDF Sub-projects with Bank Loans below US$50,000
IRR       Sub-      Share in        Total investment Bank
                                                      per
                                                            loan Average sub- Share in
                                                          sub-   project
          projects number           in sub-projects
                    of sub-projects ( US$)            project    investment    total bank
                                                                               loan
                                                      (US$)      (US$)
<16.7%    10        13.3%           164,878           9,762      16,488        10.0%
16.7– 20% 6         9.3%            226,364           20,202     37,730        12.5%
20 – 25% 10         13.3%           164,531           10,755     16,453        11.1%
25 – 30% 6          8.0%            157,576           16,725     26,264        10.4%
30 – 40% 12         16.0%           321,411           17,594     26,786        21.8%
> 40%     33        44.0%           443,294           9,973      13,433        34.0%
Total     75        100.0%          1,478,077         12,893     19,708        100.0%
For the MLF sub-projects, all except two of the thirty sub-projects have FRR higher than the interest
rate on the loan indicating potential ease in loan repayment. Only three sub-projects have an FRR
lower than 15%. The return on owned capital contributed by the end-borrowers to the sub-project is
very robust indicating solid financial viability of the sub-projects.
The Mekong Socio-economic Survey of November 2011 carried out an analysis of a different set of
100 sub-projects (70 RDF-financed, and 30 MLF-financed). For the RDF sample, more than 92% of
the loan volume and 94% of the 70 sub-projects showed an estimated IRR of over 15%. The portfolio
was found to be very robust, with more than 57% of the loan volume having projected IRRs exceeding
25%. For the MLF sample, 100% of the 30 sub-projects showed FRRs well over the 15% threshold.
Repayment and Overdue Rate
An indirect evidence of the sub-projects’ financial viability is the repayment rate on loans. The
excellent repayment rate throughout the project is a clear indicator that the underlying business
activities have been profitable. As on September 30, 2013 the average proportion of overdue to



35
     Bank loans are an aggregation of share of the project line of credit and the PFI contribution
                                                       31
outstanding loans (non-performing loans) was as follows: RDF: 0.42%; and MLF: 0.12%. This is well
below the project maximum of 5%.
Quality of Life Improvements
The 2013 survey also revealed that resulting from the income increases related to the sub-projects,
end-borrowers experienced improved living conditions in terms of better quality meals (75%),
payment of tuition fees for their children (64%), use of electrical appliances (70%), and access to
cleaner water services (50%). Close to 55% of the respondents had made some investment in white
goods (TV) and/or transport (motorbike), and 54% had made contributions to public welfare activities.
Although the improvements are modest, these have resulted in fairly significant changes in living
standards. Detailed information is presented in the table below. Impacts on healthcare were also
examined based on the criteria of health examination and treatment. 39.8% of surveyed end-borrowers
stated that there had been an increase in health examination and treatment compared to the pre-project
period.




                                               32
         Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                        Responsibility/
              Names                            Title                    Unit
                                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Evelyn Bautista-LaguidaoSenior Executive Assistant               CROVP         Administration
The Dzung Nguyen        Senior Rural Development                 EASVS         Rural Development
                        Specialist
James Seward            Lead Financial Sector Specialist         EASFP         Financial Sector
Iain G. Shuker          Sector Manager                           EASER         Economist
Xiaolan Wang            Senior Operations Officer                ECSUW         Task Team Leader
James Lacey             Senior Banking Specialist                Consultant    Banking
Mai Wang                Senior Counsel                           LEGAM         Legal
Hiet Thi Hong Tran      Procurement Specialist                   EACVF         Procurement
Thang Chien Nguyen      Senior Procurement Specialist            EACVF         Procurement
Edward Daoud            Senior Finance Officer                   LOAFC         Financial Management
Jennifer Thomson        Chief Financial Management               OPSOR         Financial Management
                        Officer
Pham Thi Mong Hoa       Senior Social Development                EASVS         Social Aspects
                        Specialist
Trang Phuong Thi Nguyen Environmental Specialist                               Environmental Aspects
Quyen Thi My Nguyen     Program Assistant                        EACVF         Administration
Thu Thi Le Nguyen       Operations Analyst                       EASVS         Administration
Supervision/ICR
Harideep Singh             Senior Rural Development              EASER         Task Team Leader
                           Specialist                                          (2012-2013)
Xiaolan Wang               Senior Operations Officer             ECSUW
                                                                               Task Team Leader
                                                                               (up to November 2011)
Huy Toan Ngo               Consultant                            EASWE
                           Senior Rural Development
Dzung The Nguyen           Specialist                            EASVS         Rural Development
Hoai Van Nguyen            Procurement Specialist                EASR2         Procurement
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan        Financial Officer                     GEFOB         Financial Management
Hiet Thi Hong Tran         Senior Procurement Specialist         EASRP-HIS     Procurement
Ha Thuy Tran               Financial Management Specialist       EASFM         Financial Management
Viet Quoc Trieu            Senior Financial Sector Specialist    EASFP         Financial Sector

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                     USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                                                         198.91
  FY08                                                                         115.11
Total:                                                                         314.02
Supervision/ICR
 FY08
 FY09                                                                           47.91
 FY10                                                                           90.00
 FY11                                                                           98.60
                                               33
 FY12                           162.08
 FY13                            83.65
 FY14 (up to April 2014)         63.22
Total:                          545.46




                           34
     Annex 5. Assessment of PFI Performance against Institutional Development Plans (IDP)
                                  and Accreditation Criteria

An assessment of PFI performance in terms of compliance with accreditation criteria was made
based on available financial data for 28 out of the 30 PFIs. DaiA Bank was acquired by HD
Bank and Western Bank merged with PVFC to create a new entity altogether. The overall rating
was assessed as Marginally Satisfactory on the basis of the methodology proposed in the PAD.
                   A. Overall PFI Performance Assessment and Composite Rating
PAD Approach: For each PFI, compliance was to be measured on a four point scale:
Unsatisfactory, Marginally Unsatisfactory, Marginally Satisfactory or Satisfactory. A PFI was to
receive a Satisfactory (S) rating if it met all five accreditation criteria or the conditions of its IDP.
The project was to receive a satisfactory rating against this intermediate outcome indicator if all
PFIs received a satisfactory rating or had not had a less than satisfactory rating for more than a
year. This would have allowed PFIs time to correct any non-compliance with the IDP or be
excluded from the program. The project rating of marginally satisfactory (MS), marginally
unsatisfactory (MU), and unsatisfactory    (U) was to be used to reflect varying degrees to which
this condition was (not) met. 36
While the PAD is clear on when an S rating would be accorded (all five accreditation criteria
met), the approach is subjective in terms of what could constitute MS, MU or U rating either in
terms of partial satisfaction of accreditation criteria or varying levels of compliance with IDP
conditions.
The team has used the PAD approach to make this rating process more objective by considering
the PFI (absolute) performance against the five criteria at end of the project period for those PFIs
that do not have an IDP (either because it met all criteria, or was so close to the norm that it did
not really warrant an IDP, or because of nearness to the closing date of the project, or any other
reason).
                 Table 1: Approach to Rating of PFIs based on Accreditation Criteria
                              Rating Scale                       Number of          Points
                                                                 Criteria met      Achieved
                                                                   by PFI
             Satisfactory (S)                                       All 5               4
             Marginally Satisfactory (MS)                             4                 3
             Marginally Unsatisfactory (MU)                          2-3                2
             Unsatisfactory (U)                                      0-1                1
The objective of the IDP is to have institutions complying with the accreditation criteria. Thus, in
terms of compliance with IDP conditions, if a PFI succeeded in achieving the criteria it would be
accorded an S rating. If it did not succeed in achieving any upgrade, it would receive a U rating.
Partial achievement would be rated an MS or an MU based on level of compliance.
Overall performance of the cohort of 28 PFIs was assessed as a composite rating consisting of:
(a) ratings for those PFIs with IDPs on the basis of their performance on the IDPs; and (b) ratings
for those PFIs that do not have IDPs on the basis of the number of criteria met as per Table 1.
This is summarized in Table 2.
Of the 18 PFIs for whom IDPs were prepared, 12 complied with the conditions, were able to
achieve the accreditation criteria, and were rated as S (67%). Three were rated as MS. Only
three were rated as MU and lower. The overall performance of the PFIs in the IDP group could
be rated as MS given that 83% of the PFIs demonstrated an achievement of MS and/or S.


36
     Project Appraisal Document, page 27

                                                   35
For the entire group of 28 PFIs, 22 were rated MS and above (S: 15; MS: 7), equivalent to 79%
of the cohort. The overall composite rating of the PFIs (based on IDP PFIs and non-IDP PFIs)
could be rated at MS.




                                              36
                        Table 2: Rating of PFI Performance: Compliance with IDP Conditions (for IDP PFIs)
                                   or Accreditation Criteria (for non-IDP PFIs) as on 12/31/2013
No   PFIs/MFIs*    NPL CAR Liquidity         ROA       ROE      No. of     IDP   Achievement of IDP         Rating   Rating     Hybrid
                   ratio     ratio                              criteria         Conditions (for IDP        on       on         Rating
                   <=6% >=9% >=25%           >=0.5% >=10        met at           PFIs) or Accreditation     IDP      Accredi    (Accredi
                                                    %           project          Criteria (for non-IDP      only     tation     tation
                                                                closing          PFIs)                               Criteria   Criteria
                                                                                                                     only       or IDP)
1    VBARD         1      1       1          0         0        3          Yes   2012: Liquidity and        MS       IDP        MS
                                                                                 ROE not met;
                                                                                 2013: Liquidity met,
                                                                                 but ROA not met
                                                                                 along with ROE
2    MHB           1      1       1          1         1        5          Yes   2013: All criteria met     S        IDP        S
3    CoopBank      1      1       1          1         1        5          Yes   2013: All criteria met     S        IDP        S
4    ACB           1      1       1          1         0        4          No    2013: ROE not met          No       MS         MS
                                                                                                            IDP
5    Sacombank     1      1       0          1         1        4          No    2012: ROE not met          No       MS         MS
                                                                                 but very close to          IDP
                                                                                 norm;
                                                                                 2013: ROE met, but
                                                                                 liquidity became a
                                                                                 problem
6    Saigonbank    1      1       0          1         0        3          Yes   2012: ROE and              MS       IDP        MS
                                                                                 Liquidity not met;
                                                                                 2013: ROE improved
                                                                                 close to norm but not
                                                                                 met, and liquidity
                                                                                 continued to be a
                                                                                 problem
7    Techcombank   1      1       1          0         0        3          No    2013: ROE and ROA          No       MU         MU
                                                                                 not met                    IDP
8    MB            1      1       1          1         1        5          NR                               No       S          S
                                                                                                            IDP
9    KienLongBank 1       1       1          1         0        4          No    2013: ROE unmet, but       No       MS         MS
                                                                                 close to norm              IDP
10   PVCombank     Excluded
11   MSB           1      1       1          0         0        3          No    2012: ROE and ROA          No       MU         MU
                                                                                 not met but lines of       IDP
                                                                                 credit terminated due

                                                               37
                                                      to poor disbursement
                                                      level;
                                                      2013: ROE and ROA
                                                      remain unmet
12   DongABank      1     1    0   1   0   3    No    2013: Liquidity and   No      MU    MU
                                                      ROE unmet             IDP
13   VIBank         1     1    1   0   0   3    Yes   2012: ROE unmet;      MU      IDP   MU
                                                      2013: ROE continued
                                                      to remain unmet; ROA
                                                      also became a problem
14   DaiABank       Excluded
15   SeaBank        1      1   1   1   1   5    Yes   2013: All criteria met   S    IDP   S
16   VPBank         1      1   1   1   1   5    Yes   2013: All criteria met   S    IDP   S
17   SHB            1      1   1   1   0   4    Yes   2013: ROE unmet          MS   IDP   MS
18   VietABank      1      1   1   0   0   3    Yes   2012: ROE unmet;         MU   IDP   MU
                                                      2013: ROE remained
                                                      unmet, but NPL also
                                                      became a problem
19   Construction   0     0    0   0   0   0    Yes   2012: All ratios         U    IDP   U
     Bank                                             became a problem;
                                                      restructuring plan
                                                      approved by SBV;
                                                      2013: All ratios
                                                      continue to be a
                                                      problem
20   VietinBank     1     1    1   1   1   5    NR                           NR     S     S
21   LienVietPost   1     1    1   1   0   4    No    2013: ROE became a     No     MS    MS
     Bank                                             problem but very close IDP
                                                      to norm
22   PCF Moc Chau 1       1    1   1   1   5    Yes   2013: All criteria met S      IDP   S
23   PCF An Thanh 1       1    1   1   1   5    NR                           No     S     S
                                                                             IDP
24   PCF Go Den     1     1    1   1   1   5    Yes   2013: All criteria met S      IDP   S
25   PCF Cham       1     1    1   1   1   5    Yes   2013: All criteria met S      IDP   S
     Mat
26   PCF Van        1     1    1   1   1   5    Yes   2013: All criteria met   S    IDP   S
     Trach
27   PCF Chieng     1     1    1   1   1   5    Yes   2013: All criteria met   S    IDP   S
     Son
28   PCF Viet Lam   1     1    1   1   1   5    Yes   2013: All criteria met   S    IDP   S
29   PCF Quang      1     1    1   1   1   5    Yes   2013: All criteria met   S    IDP   S

                                           38
     Trung
30   PCF Dong Hoa 1    1    1    1    1    5    Yes   2013: All criteria met   S       IDP   S
     Total        27   27   24   22   16        18                             18            28
                                                                               IDP           project
                                                                               PFIs:         PFIs:
                                                                               S: 12         S: 15
                                                                               MS: 3         MS: 7
                                                                               MU: 2         MU: 5
                                                                               U: 1          U: 1




                                           39
              B. Detailed Note on PFI Performance against Accreditation Criteria
The performance of PFIs has been discussed separately for the two groups of financial
institutions, namely, commercial banks and PCFs. A short assessment is also provided for
VBARD and BIDV performance against the accreditation criteria. The overall assessment of
PFIs is rated as Marginally Satisfactory based “purely” on the accreditation criteria as on
12/31/2013 (summarized in Table 2 at end of this section).
Commercial Banking Sector PFIs Performance. The banking sector in 2013 presented a mixed
picture. There have been noticeable developments in the bank restructuring program, in which
system liquidity has significantly improved, interest rate hikes were reined in so that both deposit
and lending rates were at affordable levels for borrowers, and systemic risks posed by weak
banks were announced to have been appropriately contained.
NPL Ratio. Severe concerns about the overall quality of the banking sector portfolio remain.
The reported NPL figure was reported to be significantly reduced to 4.6 percent by the end of
September, 2013 compared with 6 percent by early March 2013, thanks to aggressive use of
provisioning by banks for writing-off, to the application of Decision 780 on loan rescheduling
and more recently, to bad debt transfers to the Vietnam Asset Management Company (VAMC).
Subsequent to the comprehensive reform program for the banking sector promulgated by
Decision 245 in March, 2012, the Government issued Decree 53 on the establishment,
organization and operation of VAMC in mid-May, followed by Decision 849 in late May 2013
on handling bad debts of the credit institutions and on the establishment of VAMC. VAMC is
recognized as one of the five key solutions to bad debt settlement, and specifically designed for
Vietnamese context. These are recognized as positive steps toward resolving the banking
system’s bad debts in addition to the earlier actions to assess the magnitude of the NPL issue and
to clean up the banks’ balance sheets. By the end of December 2013, except one, all commercial
banks met the NPL ratio criterion.
Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR). It is believed that capital adequacy would remain an issue not
only for the smaller banks, but the larger ones too resulting primarily from the less than
conservative estimate of the riskiness of their asset portfolio (NPL assessment). With the
forthcoming changes in loan classification requirement, the CAR of the PFIs would probably be
closer to international standards, and would most likely result in a lower CAR for some PFIs.
The strong provisioning requirement for the transfers of bad debts to the VAMC may also
negatively affect the ratio going forward. The SBV is also considering a higher capital threshold
in the coming years (about VND5 trillion) for the PFIs to have a larger buffer to absorb the
underlying risks in this sector, should these mature. By the end of December 2013, except one,
all commercial banks were able to meet the CAR criterion (which was revised to 9 percent
according to stricter prudential ratio regulation by SBV in late 2010).
Liquidity Ratio. The deposit growth in the system maintained its strong momentum (by early
December 2013, deposit growth surpassed 15 percent, with VND deposits growing by almost 16
percent, while foreign currency deposit growing by almost 14 percent), supporting credit
institutions well in liquidity management, despite the fact that the overall deposit rates have been
quite low compared with 2012 levels. Despite the overall context, by the end of December 2013,
14 of the 18 commercial banks met the liquidity criterion. VBARD has historically never been
able to meet the liquidity ratio due to the peculiarities of its operation and government mandated
rural and agricultural lending.
Profitability Ratios. As noted by the World Bank discussions with the Government of Vietnam
on Year-end Taking Stock, a sustained recovery in GDP growth remains hampered by slow-
moving structural reforms and global uncertainty. Domestic demand in Vietnam remains weak
on account of subdued private sector confidence, over-leveraged SOE and banking sectors, and
shrinking fiscal space. On the supply side, cross-country competitiveness assessments show that
Vietnam is falling behind relative to comparator economies. Re-energizing medium-term growth
will require renewed attention on a number of structural reforms – with emphasis on the
country’s state owned banks and enterprises. A series of rate cuts since early 2012 have not
helped much to boost credit growth (by 25 November 2013, system-wide credit growth was just
over 7.6 percent) directly affecting interest income which accounts for more than 90% of
operating income of most commercial banks. As such, the profitability of the banking sector has
                                                41
remained fairly low: By end of December 2013, 6 banks met ROE criterion, and 12 banks met
ROA criterion).
Peoples’ Credit Funds (PCF) Performance. The PCFs have performed very well in the review
period. All nine PCFs, and the Cooperative Bank (the erstwhile Central Credit Fund) met all
accreditation criteria. The project accredited PCFs continued to show high growth in deposits
and loans compared with the banking sector. Given their small asset and equity base, and high
loans-to-deposit ratio (and therefore higher interest income but accordingly lower liquidity), their
profitability ratios were also high. As the PCFs have lent out more prudently, coupled with the
lending interest cap compliance (which was recently removed), the PCFs scored much better in
liquidity management.
VBARD performance. VBARD continues to be the largest bank in Vietnam and has the widest
branch network, covering the remotest areas at the commune level. As such, VBARD has been
the most important PFI in the project, as it does reach the poorer rural end-borrowers as shown
by the much smaller average sub-loan size.
In terms of its institutional development, VBARD is still strongly committed to its organizational
restructuring with the new institutional development strategy, business plan, corporate
governance plan and training strategy. In late 2011, VBARD submitted a restructuring plan for
the period 2012-2015 to SBV, which was approved on December 12, 2013. The plan sets
challenging targets for VBARD to achieve within a two year time frame, such as reducing the
number of staff by 3,000 or reducing NPL ratio to below 3 percent.
VBARD’s performance was sub-par on the ROA and ROE criteria, as was the case with the
entire commercial banking sector institutions.
VBARD loan portfolio quality (NPL ratio): VBARD has met this criterion. It is the most active
among the credit institutions selling bad debts to the VAMC. It had planned to sell as much as
VND10 trillion to the VAMC in 2013, and another VND20 trillion in 2014. It should be noted
that the NPL ratio is significantly lower if the bad debts from its subsidiaries are excluded.
VBARD is also determined to shift its strategy and business plan back to its core areas (rural and
agriculture), while gradually divesting itself from the non-core affiliates (in the past, lending in
urban areas did prove to be risky for the bank, and the shift is seen as sensible). All the bad debts
sold and to be sold to the VAMC are from the two cities: Hanoi and HCMC, and mostly real
estate related assets. The statistics show that the loan portfolio in rural areas carries a much lower
NPL ratio compared with the bank-wide one, and as such VBARD has endeavored to lend more
than 70 percent of its portfolio for the rural areas.
VBARD liquidity ratio: VBARD has met this criterion. Liquidity has been traditionally an issue
for a bank like VBARD as it is mandated to actively participate in government credit programs,
especially in the context of government refocusing on agricultural and rural areas. As such, its
loan/deposit and loan outstanding/total assets ratios have been consistently high. At the same
time, most of its deposits are short-term, and like all the banks in the sector, it is facing difficulty
in improving its funding structure to incorporate a higher medium-longer term funds source. In
order for VBARD to meet the liquidity criterion, the management will need a plan to reduce the
loans/total assets (which appears to be unlikely given its rural lending mandate), and to increase
its share of medium-to-longer term source of funds (equally unlikely given the state of the
economy).
VBARD capital adequacy ratio: VBARD has met this criterion. VBARD was going to receive
an additional VND2.5 trillion within 2013, and may get additional capital injection of VND5
trillion by the end of 2015 to strengthen its capital base, and CAR accordingly, in anticipation of
a fairly quick portfolio expansion in the years to come.
Wholesale bank BIDV performance. BIDV has consistently met all the key accreditation
criteria. BIDV’s growth has proven that it is one of the leading credit institutions in the country.
Credit growth reached 9.8 percent by September-end, much higher than system-wide average.
Deposit growth reached 12.5 percent for the same period, also higher than system average. BIDV
has strengthened its performance against all five criteria, especially in terms of profitability even

                                                  42
 though it has aggressively provisioned against bad debts. BIDV has been seen as proactively
 strengthening its capacity to operate as an apex bank for the project.

         Table 3: Accreditation Criteria Compliance Performance of PFIs as at 31/12/2013

No       PFIs/MFIs*      NPL CAR Liquidity ROA                  ROE       No. of     Rating Points
                         ratio             ratio                          criteria            Achieved
                         <=6% >=9% >=25%              >=0.5% >=10% Met                        **
1        VBARD           1        1        1          0         0         3          MU       2
2        MHB             1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
3        CoopBank        1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
4        ACB             1        1        1          1         0         4          MS       3
5        Sacombank       1        1        0          1         1         4          MS       3
6        Saigonbank      1        1        0          1         0         3          MU       2
7        Techcombank 1            1        1          0         0         3          MU       2
8        MB              1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
9        KienLongBank 1           1        1          1         0         4          MS       3
10       PVCombank                                          Excluded
11       MSB             1        1        1          0         0         3          MU       2
12       DongABank       1        1        0          1         0         3          MU       2
13       VIBank          1        1        1          0         0         3          MU       2
14       DaiABank                                           Excluded
15       SeaBank         1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
16       VPBank          1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
17       SHB             1        1        1          1         0         4          MS       3
18       VietABank       1        1        1          0         0         3          MU       2
19       Construction    0        0        0          0         0         0          U        1
         Bank
20       VietinBank      1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
21       LienVietPost    1        1        1          1         0         4          MS       3
         Bank
22       PCF Moc Chau 1           1        1          1         1         5          S        4
23       PCF An Thanh 1           1        1          1         1         5          S        4
24       PCF Go Den      1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
25       PCF Cham        1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
         Mat
26       PCF Van         1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
         Trach
27       PCF Chieng      1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
         Son
28       PCF Viet Lam 1           1        1          1         1         5          S        4
29       PCF Quang       1        1        1          1         1         5          S        4
         Trung
30       PCF Dong Hoa 1           1        1          1         1         5          S        4
         Total           27       27       24         22        16        116                 90
*Total number of PFIs considered for assessing compliance performance: 28
**Maximum number of accreditation criteria compliance points that all 28 PFIs can achieve is 140 (28*5)
 Overall performance of the 28 PFIs is summarized below.
                Rating                  Number of      Compliance      Points      Total
                                          PFIs            %           Achieved     Points
                                                                                  Achieved
  Satisfactory (S)                          15             54.0%          4          60
  Marginally Satisfactory (MS)               5             18.0%          3          15
  Marginally Unsatisfactory (MU)             7             25.0%          2          14
  Unsatisfactory (U)                         1              3.0%          1           1

                                                 43
 Total                                       28            100%                       90
 Marginally Satisfactory and Above                         72.0%
 Weighted Average Points Achieved                                                    3.2

Approach to rating all PFIs purely on accreditation criteria
Two approaches were used to arrive at the Marginally Satisfactory PFI assessment rating:
Approach A: Number of PFIs Individually Meeting the Accreditation Criteria: 20 PFIs or 72%
of PFIs performance is rated MS and above. Only one of the 28 PFIs is rated Unsatisfactory.
PFI compliance performance against accreditation criteria is rated Marginally Satisfactory.
Approach B: Weighted Average Points Achieved: The weighted average of the points achieved
against the performance scale is 3.2. This achievement is above the point rating corresponding
to MS (3.0) but well below the S rating. PFI compliance performance against accreditation
criteria is rated Marginally Satisfactory.




                                                  44
                              Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR

                                   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

I. Basis
Project Implementation Completion Report for Rural Finance Project III (RFPIII) is prepared by
BIDV, the Project Owner, on behalf of the Borrower, in compliance with Paragraph A.3, Section
II, Schedule 2 of the Financing Agreement (Credit No. 4447-VN) entered into between IDA and
SRV on November 14, 2008. The Report aims to assess overall Project implementation results
and to summarize activities and works of the Project components undertaken by related agencies
by the Closing Date - December 31, 2013.

1.1 Project Data:

      Project name:                   Rural Finance Project III (RFP III)
      Project ID:                     P100916
      Loan number:                    IDA 4447-VN
      Loan amount:                    127,700,000 SDR

      Key dates:                                           Revised
      Appraisal:                       02/10/2007             -
      Loan Approval:                   28/03/2008             -
      FA Signing                      14/11/2008              -
      Effectiveness Date:              10/02/2009            No
      Closing Date:                    31/12/2013            No

     The Borrower:                    Socialist Republic of Vietnam
      Borrowing terms:                40 years with 10 - year grace period
      Line Agency:                    State Bank of Vietnam
     Implementing Agency:             Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam JSC
                                      (BIDV)
      On-lending period:              25 years with 8 - year grace period
      Other partners:                 Project Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) and Sub-
                                      borrowers in rural areas.

1.2 Project Descriptions

The development objectives of the Project are to increase economic benefits to rural private
enterprises and households by increasing their access to finance. The outcomes of the project
include (i) Improved access to financial services for rural entrepreneurs; (ii) Increased capital
investment made by the rural entrepreneurs as well as increased employment; and (iii) Increased
lending, especially term lending to rural private sector for capital investment by all participating
financial institutions (PFIs) on market-based terms.
The Project objectives are consistent with the preferential policy of the Vietnam’s Government
in developing the rural economy and with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and its
overall program on the Poor Reduction Support Credit in Vietnam. The initial objectives of the
Project have been kept unchanged during the implementation.
According to the Financing Agreement (Credit No. 4447-VN), total credit for the Project of SDR
127.700 million (equivalent to USD 200 million at negotiation) is allocated into 03 components:


                                                45
Component A: Rural Development Fund (RDF III) – USD 175 million would provide
medium and long term credits to rural areas with the aim of increased access by RDF III
beneficiaries to financial services through PFIs for the financing of sub-projects through the
provision of RDF III sub-loans.
Component B: Micro-finance Loan Fund (MLF III) – USD 10 million would be used to
provide small and short term loans to increase access by MLF III beneficiaries to financial
services through MFIs for the financing of sub-projects through the provision of MLF III sub-
loans.
Component C: Institutional Capacity Building and New Market Development - USD 15
million is designed to help participating financial institutions build a credible strategy for
expanding access to finance in rural areas of Vietnam. This component is also designed to prove
that new markets can be found and be commercially viable.
This component consists of 03 sub-components:
(i)   Sub-component C1 - USD 1.5 million to strengthen the capacity of BIDV and PMU to
      perform the function of a Wholesale Bank serving rural areas;
(ii) Sub-component C2 - USD 8.5 million to strengthen the capacity of the Vietnam Bank for
      Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD) and accredited PFIs in providing financial
      services to rural areas through technical assistance and training activities; and
(iii) Sub-component C3 – a Bank Credit of USD 5 million to be transformed into a grant from
      the State Budget to finance the activities which are considered to be public products for
      the rural finance system of Vietnam.
BIDV has been assigned by the Government and the Bank to be the Project Owner (the Apex
Bank). To perform this function, BIDV has established and maintained a PMU (Transaction
Center III) within BIDV to handle daily tasks related to the Project implementation.

1.3 Re-allocation of the Project fund

By the end of quarter III/2013, about USD 2.5 million under the Component C is expected to
remain unused, of which: (i) USD 2 million from sub-component C2 allocated to VBARD for
training activities; and (ii) USD 0.5 million of Cash flow based lending Contract under sub-
component C3 which is carried out by the PMU.
Since there is still PFI demand for additional funds for financing the production and business
activities in rural areas, following the proposal from Vietnam side, the Bank approved tranfering
the unused fund under Component C of USD 2.5 million to Component B - MLF.
1.4 Project Scope
The Project was implemented nationwide; except for 04 major cities: Hanoi, Hai Phong, Da
Nang and Ho Chi Minh City.
1.5 Project Implementation Mechanism
Similar to the previous RFPI and II, RFP III is also implemented on mechanism of wholesale
banking operations. The Credit is transferred to BIDV under an On-lending Loans Agreement
(OLA) signed by MOF, on behalf of SRV, and BIDV. Financing of Credit Lines under RDF III
and MLF III would be on-lent to accredited PFIs/MFIs under Subsidiary Loans Agreement
(SLA) entered into between those and BIDV. The PFIs/ MFIs would lend to sub-borrowers at
market interest rates to implement eligible sub-projects.
1.6 Project Implementation Schedule
RFP III has been effective from February 10, 2009 and the Closing date was December 31, 2013.
II. Summary of Results
                                               46
2.1 Project Implementation Results
By closing date of 31/12/2013, 30 PFIs were accredited, of which, 21 institutions are banks and
09 are PCFs. The total Credit Lines granted to PFIs was VND 3,567.800 billion. Outstanding
loans on the Project closing date achieved VND 3,307 billion. The proportion of credit lines
utilization of PFIs was 92.6% at Project closing date, which may consider as very high in the
context of the low credit growth in 2013.
                      Table 1: Withdrawal and Disbursement (31 December, 2013)

                                  Allocated by DCA        Re-allocated Actual Withdrawal - Disbursement USD
            Categogies
                                  SDR          USD            USD        Withdrl      Disbsmt     % Disbsmt
     I On-lending              124,460,000 195,000,000     195,500,000 194,645,851 189,315,883       97%
         Component A - RDF 111,700,000 175,000,000         175,000,000       -       173,530,511    100%
         Component B - MLF       6,380,000 10,000,000       12,500,000       -        12,882,525    100%
         Sub-compnt C1, C2       6,380,000 10,000,000        8,000,000       -         2,902,847     36%
      Balance Designated Acc A                                                         5,329,968
     II Grant C3                 3,240,000    5,000,000      4,500,000    4,126,759    3,857,219     86%
       Balance Designated Acc B                                                          269,540
    III Total Project          127,700,000 200,000,000     200,000,000 198,772,610 193,173,102       96%
         Balance Designated Acc A + B                                                  5,599,508

The project has carried out 50 withdrawals from the Credit Account with the total amount of
198,722,619 USD 37. The disbursement was USD 193,173,102 accounted for 96% of total Project
fund.
The balance on the Designated Accounts A and B is USD 5,599,508 which will be disbursed
during the grace period (from 01/01 to 30/4/2014) for consultancy and training activities
completed before December 31, 2013.
-      On-lending components: All on-lending fund has been withdrawn, through 29 withdrawal
       applications to the Designated Account A with total amount of USD 194,645,851. The
       disbursement achieved USD 189,315,883 or about 97% of total fund of Project component.
       In the disbursement fund, the Credit component (Component A and B) disbursed 100% of
       the allocated amount, equivalent to USD 186,413,036; Institutional Strengthening
       Component (Sub-component C1 and C2) disbursed USD 2,902,847 (equivalent to 36% of
       total capital after adjustment). The balance on DA A on December 31, 2013 was USD
       5,329,968.
-      Grant component: WB has approved 21 withdrawal applications to the DA B with a total of
       USD 4,126,759. The disbursement achieved USD 3,857,219 (equivalent to 86% of total
       fund of sub-component after adjustment). The balance on DA B on December 31, 2013 was
       USD 269,540.
Implementation of Credit Component
                            Table 2: Accumulative Investment and Financing



37
 Due to exchange rate fluctuation, total Project capital reduced in comparison to that at the
Negotiation (USD 200,000,000).



                                                     47
                                                                                        Unit: '000 USD
                                                               WB -        PMU -
                                  Sub-
         Component                             PFIs/MFIs       Credit     Revolving         Total
                                Borrowers
                                                              Account       Fund
   RDF III                           126,387         68,254     173,531       62,241          430,413
   MLF III                            12,765         14,450      12,882       17,168           57,265
A. Total Credit Funds                139,152         82,704     186,413       79,409          487,678
         % financing               29%           17%           38%           16%            100%
  Procurement of Goods                     0              0         210             0             210
  Training                                 0              0       3,606             0           3,606
  TAs                                      0              0       2,944             0           2,944
B. Total Inst Strengthening                0              0       6,760             0           6,760
       Total Project                 139,152         82,704     193,173        79,409         494,438
         % financing               28%           17%           39%           16%            100%
Average Exchange Rate 1USD = 20,137 VND

Credit Components (Component A and B) disbursed 100% allocated amount equivalent to USD
186.4 million. The PMU also disbursed an amount of about USD 79.4 million (VND 1,595
billion) from Revolving Fund, increased total turnover of accumulative loans up to equivalent of
USD 265.8 (VND 5,351 billion). Project outstanding loans achieved VND 3,307 billion. All
loans under Credit Component were made in38      VND. Project fund created total investment in rural
areas up to USD 487.6 (VND 9,818 billion) . The Project has achieved and surpassed all KPIs
relating to the credit activities agreed by the Government and WB.
Through RDF III and MLF III, the Project has encouraged the private investment by financing
for 135,674 sub-projects in rural areas, of which MLF III accessed to 70,341 households. The
medium and long-term loans rate accounted for 100% RDF III outstanding loans. RDF III has
created 139,477 new jobs in rural areas.
29/30 accredited PFIs were active in RDF III disbursement (only Vietinbank did not take part in
disbursement). As of December 31, 2013 accumulative disbursement of RDF III sub-loans
achieved USD 235.7 million (VND 4,748 billion), of which disbursed from DA achieved USD
173.5 (VND 3,499 billion), or 100% RDF fund, and from Revolving Fund achieved USD 62.2
million (VND 1,249 billion). RDF III has created about USD 430.4 million (VND 8,668 billion)
investment in rural areas, of which, sub-borrowers contributed USD 126.3 million (VND 2,545
billion) or 29%, PFIs contributed USD 68.2 million (VND 1,374 billion) or 16%, RDF III
financed USD 235.7 million (VND 4,748 billion) or 55%. On December 31, 2013 outstanding
loans of RDF III achieved VND 3,144 billion. RDF III medium and long term outstanding loans
achieved 100%, in accordance with the Fund’s objective.
As of December 31, 2013 there were 11 financial institutions took part in MLF disbursement
(including VBARD, 03 JSCBs and 07 PCFs). Turnover of accumulative MLF disbursement
achieved USD 30 million (VND 602 billion), of which disbursement from DA was USD 12.9
million (VND 256 billion) and disbursement from Revolving Fund was VND 345 billion (USD
17.1 million). Total cost of MLF III sub-projects reached USD 57.2 million (VND 1,150 billion);
of which end-borrowers contributed USD 12.7 million (VND 257 billion) accounted 22.3%,
MFIs supplemented USD 14.4 million (VND 290 billion) accounted 25.3%, and MLF III
financed USD 30 million (VND 602 billion) or 52.4% total cost of sub-projects. At December



38
  Because of: (i) sub-borrowers contribution rate was 31,9% total sub-project costs, higher than
that of 15% anticipated at the appraisal; and (ii) disbursement from Revolving Fund.

                                                48
31, 2013 outstanding loans of MLF III achieved VND 163 billion. Short-term loans accounted
for 98.7%, meeting the Fund objective.
Implementation of Institutional Strengthening Component
Institutional Strengthening Component (Component C) disbursed USD 6.7 million, of which
USD 0.210 million for purchasing goods; USD 3.606 for training activities, and USD 2.944 for
technical assistance (TA). Disbursement of Institutional Strengthening Component is slower than
Credit Component, but in general it met the Project requirements. The Project financed 09
international consulting contracts and 547 training courses for improving management capacity
and professional knowledge of over 17,000 staffs of BIDV and the Project participating
agencies. The procurement activities under Project have been conducted in strict compliance
with regulations of the Government of Vietnam and guidelines of the Bank.
2.2 Assessment of Project Implementation Results in terms of Development Objectives
In general, RFP III has completed development objectives agreed by the Government of Vietnam
and the WB at appraisal.
The Project objective of improved access to financial services for rural entrepreneurs has been
achieved at high level. As of December 31, 2013, the Credit Funds of the Project (RDF III and
MLF III) have generated total investment up to USD 487 million (VND 9,198 billion), achieved
180% initial objective when closing the Project (USD 270 million); of which, accumulative
volume financed by WB achieved USD 266 million (VND 5,351 billion) accounting for 55% of
total investment; PFIs additionally finances USD 82 million (VND 1,665 billion) equivalent to
17% and contribution fund by End-borrowers was up to USD 139 million (VND 2,802 billion)39
or 29%. USD 1 of WB’s Fund generated USD 2.62 investment in rural areas, much more
increased in comparison to estimation at appraisal of USD 1.46. Through RDF III and MLF, the
Project has encouraged private investments in rural areas by financing 135,674 viable sub-
projects of rural individuals, households and private owned enterprises. In terms of geographical
areas, all 58/63 provinces and cities nationwide were lent from Project funds, of which, about
50% was concentrated in two key regions: Mekong River Delta, the main area for agricultural
production of the nation– accounted for 26.3% of total fund; and followed by the Northern
midland and Mountainous region, where has the highest density of the poor people of the country
– accounted for 21.8%. With the focusing on investing in key areas, the Project has really
contributed for objective of rural economy development and poverty reduction.
The objective of increased term lending for investment activities of the private sector has also
achieved through the RDF III, with 100% of medium and long-term loans. In term of job
creation aspect, according to the statistics, 65,333 RDF III sub-projects have created 139,477
new jobs in rural areas. On average, 1 RDF sub-project (VND 132 million or equivalent to USD
6,590) generated 2.1 jobs, or about USD 3,140 investment in rural areas created 1 new job.
Calculating using the Mid-term and End-term survey of the Mekong Economics consultants – on
average, each RDF sub-project created respectively 1.6 and 2.9 jobs, the new jobs created by the
Project are also very impressive (it would be in the range of 104,000 to 189,000 jobs), in all
cases is higher than the target of 100,000 jobs at the Project Closing Date.
For the PFIs, with the long-term, stable nature and with reasonable interest rate, the Project fund
actively impacts on the PFIs a ‘seed capital’ which encourages them to outreach the rural market
and change the orientation in business strategy. High repayment rate (over 99%) shows that
lending to agricultural and rural areas is not riskier than other industries, and rural lending help
diversify the portfolios, it is an alternative choice for lending to the traditional urban/non-rural
areas of banks.



39
     Average exchange rate USD/VND for disbursement under the project was 1 USD ~ 20.137 VND



                                                49
In term of institutional development, 547 training courses for more than 17,000 bank staffs, and
09 big international consulting packages implemented under the Project have contributed
important part to help the Project participating agencies, including BIDV, VBARD and other
PFIs, VAPCF, VINASME strengthen capacity, operate effectively; and support the SBV’s Bank
Supervisory Agency to intensify the supervision function over small scale financial institutions.
The Project Socio-economic Impact Assessment report carried out by the Mekong Economics
consulting firm in September 2013 indicated that RFP III has a positive impact on borrowers in
rural areas; 38% of sub-borrowers said that through RFP III, it is the first time they have
approached the banking services; over 52.5% of borrowers were not able to carry out the
business plans or had to reduce the investment without the Project loans; 75.7% confirmed the
increasing ability to borrow the medium and long term loans; 72.7% revealed the loans help
generate employment for society or increase the working time for family members; 94% of
borrowers confirmed about increase of the households and business income; and 75% of
borrowers said their awareness of environmental protection raised significantly through
participating into the Project. The Project success has also been demonstrated by more than 92%
of borrowers are satisfied and very satisfied when they access to the Project fund.
2.3 Implementation of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
                                  Table 3. Implementation of KPIs

                                                       Target at        Actual       % Actual
                       Criteria                      Closing Date       31 Dec        over
                                                     (31 Dec 2013)       2013        Targets
  1      Cumulative investments made by rural             270            4881         181%
         enterprises as a result of the project
         (USD million)
    2 Total incremental jobs created by RDF           100,000         139.477          139%
         III
         Intermediate output indicators
         Component A. RDF                                155            235.8          152%
    3 Cumulative volume of RDF III medium
         or long term sub-loans disbursed (USD
         million)
    4 Number of RDF III borrowers                      43,600          65.333          150%
    5 Overdue loans/ loans outstanding for              ≤5%            0,42%        Achieved
         RDF III (%)
         Component B. MLF
    6 Cumulative number of MLF III sub-                16,000          39.588          247%
         loans to first time borrowers
    7 Share of MLF III sub-loans to women               ≥40%            51%         Achieved
         borrowers (%)
         Component C. Bank Capacity
         Building New Product Development
    8 Apex Bank (BIDV)                            Complied at all    Complied       Achieved
         Compliance with accreditation criteria         time              (S)
         or with a time-bound IDP agreed with
         IDA
    9 PFIs/MFIs                                   Complied at all    Complied        Achieved
         Compliance with accreditation criteria         time             (S)2
         or with a time-bound IDP agreed with
         IDA
   10 Cumulative number of bankers trained              4.000          17.664       Achieved
   11 Prepare training material for SME               Material       Prepared       Achieved
         Association                                 prepared
  1
 (
 2
    ) Average Exchange Rate 1 USD ~ 20.137 VND
( ) Total PFIs assessed by the end of 2013 was 28. 2 PFIs were ceased legal statuses, including:
(i) Dai A Bank was acquired by HD Bank; and (ii) Western Bank merged with PVFC to form
PVCombank. The PMU has cancelled the credit lines of these PFIs. Though HDBank and
                                                50
PVCombank inherit the debt obligations of Dai A Bank and Western Bank under the Project, but
not yet proposed to participate in the Project, therefore the PMU did not have their 2013
financial reports.

Based on the KPIs as agreed by the Government   of Vietnam and WB in Letter No.2, attached to
the Financing Agreement signed on 14th November 2008, as of 31 December 2013, the Project
accomplished 11/11 KPIs set out for the Closing Date.
With regard to the indicator of PFIs’ compliance with accreditation criteria, calculation based on
number of accreditation criteria that each PFI meets and rating according the proportion of
compliance and points given to PFIs against their performance on a 6 levels and scale points
[Highly Satisfactory (HS), Satisfactory (S), Marginally Satisfactory            (MS), Marginally
unsatisfactory (MU), Unsatisfactory (U), and Highly Unsatisfactory (HU)] , this indicator of PFIs
is rated as Satisfactory (S). In summary, all together, the KPIs implementation at the Project
Closing Date is rated as Achieved or Satisfactory (S).
(Details of assessment and rating of the PFIs’ compliance with the accreditation criteria is
presented in Appendix 12 attached. Details of the PFIs financial performance and institutional
development are presented in Section 2.7 of the Report).

2.4 Assessment of Key Project Stakeholders’ Performance

WB's Performance in the Project

The project has received positive and efficient assistance from the Bank during its preparation
and implementation. WB supervision missions which were conducted at least twice per year
have helped to timely discover outstanding issues, delivered recommendations and actions to
resolve shortcomings (relating to monitoring, evaluation, PFIs’ credit lines adjustment, fund re-
allocation, etc.) ensuring the achievement of project’s development objectives.
Although there have been changes in the position of Project Task Team Leader (TTL), but the
TTLs have always emphasized the importance of achieving the Project development objectives,
ensuring sustainability for all Project participating agencies, and kept the continuation and
consistency in the instruction and support for the PMU and agencies to complete their jobs. The
Borrower's proposals during project implementation have reasonably been reviewed and timely
been provided with the opinions by the TTLs and the Bank’s Task Team. According to the PFIs’
management, the Bank’s financing takes small part of their total outstanding loans, but the
participating in the Project under the close monitoring of the Bank, assisted with the TA and
training, received valuable advices and direct dialogues from the TTLs and the Bank’s leading
specialists in the fields of finance and institutional development have helped PFIs gradually
move towards and achieve international standards. This is the deepest significance for the PFIs
which goes much beyond the Project itself.
The higher requirements of the WB regarding environmental protection under RFP III
(intensifying pest management and disseminating safeguard policies) have created good
precedents for Vietnam in terms of integrating environmental protection into credit activities.
Those requirements and periodical missions conducted by the WB on environment protection
have positively contributed to enhancing the awareness of bankers in granting credit and of rural
population in environmental protection.

The Government's Performance in the Project

During project implementation, the Government has issued and enforced numbers of policies
aiming at developing a system of credit organization toward modern, safe, effective and
sustainable operation.
In term of macro policy, the Government issued Decision No.254/QD-TTg dated 01/3/2012,
ratified the Plan for restructuring the credit institutions with focus on the commercial banks for
the period of 2011-2015. According to the Plan, during the period 2011-2015, the Government is
                                                  51
going to concentrate in strengthening the financial position, improving the prudence and
efficiency of the performance of the credit institutions in accordance with the international
standard to better meet the demand for the financial and banking services of the economy.
The legal environment for banking has also been reinforced. The SBV has issued the Decision
No.02/2013/TT-NHNN dated 21/01/2013, which will come into effect from 01/6/2014, regulates
the loans classification and provisioning in the operation of the credit institutions. This Decision
is a step closer to the best international standards in banking activities.
The Government has also completed the equitization of all remaining SOCBs, except for the
VBARD, which has helped more radical improvement of performance capacity of these banks.
However, the returning to the ceiling interest in 2011 by the Government, though was considered
as a temporary measure to curb the inflation, but it partly have reduced the incentives of banks to
outreach the rural areas where the operating costs are higher. To a certain extent, the disbursing
speed of the Project funds has been affected with the reduction of PFIs’ lending in rural areas.

The BIDV and PMU's Performance

BIDV Board of Management has determinedly pursued objectives committed with WB at its
being entrusted to the assignment of project management and implementation. BIDV has made
firm progress on financial performance and institutional development to undertake and
successfully play the role of an Apex Bank for the Government and the WB.
To date, BIDV has been still the only commercial bank in Vietnam being assigned to carry out
credit wholesale banking operations for an ODA project (3 RFPs). BIDV has gained a great deal
of experience in project management and operation. BIDV has established and maintained an
independent Project Management Unit (PMU) with organization set up following good
international practice model and with professional staff, built good relationship with related
partners and being well equipped to implement project activities. All the above aspects have
made a great contribution to the success of RF III and will be continued maintaining in other
ODA projects entrusted to BIDV in the coming time.
The success in project management are still due to the dedication and great efforts made by
management and officers of the PMU, especially in following aspects: (i) collecting information,
verifying and assessing performance of PFIs, timely applying measures which are flexible and in
accordance with the market developments to minimize the risks that may occur, and to ensure the
safety of the project funds; (ii) actively proposing and undertaking drastic solutions such as
recovering on-lent fund, temporarily halting disbursement, reducing credit lines for those
institutions with unhealthy performance, having signals of risks in financial performance; or
increasing credit lines for institutions with steady financial capacity to maintain disbursement
progress; (iii) intensifying supervision and monitoring focusing on on-site supervision including
the review of the eligibility of sub-projects financed and checking the key financial indicators of
PFIs; (iv) timely proposing WB and management levels the plan to reallocate funds among
components to make full usage of the project fund; (v) undertaking monitoring and evaluating
the implementation progress of project activities, discovering shortcomings and set out timely
countermeasures. Besides, the PMU continued to maintain the Financial Management System
connected with the Management Information System facilitating the comprehensive, timely and
precise grasp of financial and transaction flows ensuring supreme safe management of the
project fund as well as eligible and effective on-lending.
The implementation of Institutional Strengthening Component: The implementation of activities
under Institutional Strengthening Component is usually more complicated and time-consuming
especially those relating to international bidding. Despite the PMU’s detail guidance and
supports, the PFIs, particularly small ones, seem to have been confused in conducting bidding
activities as required. As results, Institutional Strengthening Component has lagged behind and
been imbalanced in comparison to disbursement progress of Credit Component. This fact, in
some extent, constrained the implementation of overall objectives of the project. Thus, in
projects with similar components, PFIs should be trained on bidding procedures and an early

                                                52
plan to undertake synchronously all the project components in order for the project to bring the
most effective impacts.
The organizational stability and the active participation of the PMU right from the project
identification has shorten the preparation stage and facilitated early project implementation, and
ensured the success of the project.
III. Lessons and Recommendations
3.1 Lessons learnt
Succeeding earlier projects, RF III has been considered to be successful in stimulating
investments, creating employment, improving living standards in rural areas and contributing to
the development of a sustainable rural finance system. Lessons that may be withdrawn from the
implementation of the Projects are as follows:
1.   The selection of Wholesale Banking Operation (WBO) for credit projects or projects with
     credit components has been proved to be an appropriate decision for developing countries
     such as Vietnam. The WBO would allow a large numbers of credit institutions to participate
     in the disbursement thereby a great amount of fund can be transferred quickly to diversified
     beneficiaries and encourage the banking competition in rural areas;
2.   As for management aspect, WBO distinguished clearly between fund management agency
     (the wholesale bank) and fund utilization agencies (retail banks). This would ensure the
     project fund’s being used efficiently for the right purposes and moreover, it helps manage
     the project fund safely and for right purpose and moreover helps to minimize the possibility
     of abusing or misspending the project fund;
3.   The selection of a commercial bank with financial and managerial competency as an Apex
     Bank, and the high commitment from its senior management to project implementation has
     been an important factor for project success;
4.   It is necessary to establish and maintain a PMU with appropriate organizational structure
     and professional staff to act as a focal point in coordination with Government agencies and
     Donor from initial phase of project preparation. Active participation of PMU, Apex Bank
     and Government agencies in this phase would ensure Project's contents being prepared in
     conformity with the Donor's financing objectives and adaptable to local conditions thereby
     favor the project implementation later;
5.   For large projects in the Government's prioritized sectors, it is necessary to set up a Inter-
     Ministerial Steering Committee to provide guidance to and supervise Apex Bank in
     implementing the project objectives and coordinate with relating ministries and sectors in
     dealing with problems which may occur during the project implementation;
6.   Early and synchronous issuance of project implementation guidelines and legal framework
     combining with dissemination and training to project implementation staffs on project
     concepts and guidelines are critical for the project success;
7.   In case of having adequate fund, banks can extend lending in rural areas including poor
     ones. Lending to agriculture and rural areas has not been riskier than that to other sectors;
8.   Closely monitoring the market development and actively set out appropriate adjustment
     measures have been substantial to ensure smooth and safe project activities.
9.   The supervision and monitoring the funds management and usage should be set as one of the
     core activities of the PMU. The development of MIS system and conducting regular and
     unscheduled supervision in the areas of the Project scope are extremely important to ensure
     project fund’s safety, efficient and right-purpose usage.
3.2 Some recommendations
From experiences in implementation of Rural Finance Projects there are some recommendations
that may be useful for other ODA projects are as follows:
1.   Design of activities of the project: New concepts in a project (such as agricultural insurance,
     cash flow based lending, etc…) should be conducted feasibility study, possibility of success
     as well as budget allocation arrangement before officially being put into the project to ensure
     successful implementation of those contents;


                                                53
2.   Scope of project: Since the banking system has developed, for credit projects, fund should
     be focused only on disadvantageous regions which are really in need of funds, especially for
     short term funds, to increase effectiveness and impact of projects;
3.   The environmental safeguard issue in rural areas has been becoming imperative, and for the
     banks, the risk of not being able to collect loans due to borrowers’ noncompliance is visible.
     In the new programs, it is necessary to consider the possibility of broadening environmental
     appraisal to the loans beyond the project or to all sub-projects in sectors with high
     environmental risks. In addition, the establishment of environmental unit or appointment of
     environmental specialist(s) in PFIs receiving large amount of project fund may need to be
     required;
4.   Local authorities should be equipped through training with knowledge on environmental
     safeguard policies to effectively coordinate with banks in dissemination and supervision of
     environmental protection;
5.   The bidding procedures are complicated and time-consuming, the progress of Institutional
     Strengthening Component is often lagging and not in balance with the Credit Component’s
     one (this not only happen in RFPs). As such, the achievement of project’s overall objective
     is limited in some extent. To ensure project’s best impacts, it is necessary to have an early
     implementation plan for the Component especially for international bidding packages (in the
     recently promulgated Decree No. 38, the Government allowed to start the bidding
     procedures before the project effectiveness to minimize the risk of lagging project progress);
6.   It was difficult and ineffective for small PFIs to organize training courses by themselves
     particularly in specialized topics. As such, in the new coming projects, it is considerable to
     assign the PMU to act as a focal point to survey training needs and conduct training courses
     for small PFIs.
7.   The building of an effective MIS is an essential factor that help various management levels
     to have prompt, sound and precise information to make timely decisions relating to project
     implementation;
8.   Maintaining a stable team in charge of project implementation at PMU and at PFIs’ Head
     Quarter and branches taking part in disbursement is also primary to the project success.
9.   It is necessary to continue the implementation of project terms and conditions on the
     management and on-lending the Revolving Fund after project closing to ensure the
     maintenance of development objectives and spreading impacts of the project.
Appendix 12
                        PFI’s Compliance with Accreditation Criteria
The calculation and rating of the PFIs’ compliance with accreditation criteria was made based on
financial data of 28/30 PFIs since the 2 PFIs namely DaiABank was acquired by HDBank and
Westernbank respectively merged with PVFC to found new PVCombank. HDBank and
PVCombank have not yet shown their interest in the Project and the PMU did not have their
2013 financial reports.
1.      Basis for assessment of PFIs’ compliance consists of six levels and scale points which
depend on the number of Accreditation Criteria that PFIs meet:
                  Rating Scales                    Number of           %           Points
                                                   Criteria PFI  Compliance
                                                       met
 Highly Satisfactory (HS)                               5            100%            6
 Satisfactory (S)                                       4           80-99%           5
 Marginally Satisfactory (MS)                           3           60-79%           4
 Marginally Unsatisfactory (MU)                         2           40-59%           3
 Unsatisfactory (U)                                     1           20-39%           2
 Highly Unsatisfactory (HU)                             0            < 20%           1
2.      Summarized status of PFIs’ meeting accreditation criteria by 31 December 2013 (see
details in the Table attached)
      Rating            Number of         %                Points            Total
                           PFIs      compliance                              points

                                                54
        HS                  15               53.5%                6                   90
         S                  5                17.9%                5                   25
       MS                   7                25.0%                4                   28
       MU                   0                0.0%                 3                    0
        U                   0                0.0%                 2                    0
       HU                   1                3.6%                 0                    0
      Total                 28               100%                                    143
             MS and Above                   96.4%
     Weighted Average Points                                                         5.10

3.     Based on the above table, there are 3 options for PFIs’ assessment and rating:
(i) Option 1: Calculation based on aggregate number of accreditation criteria that PFIs meet. We
have 28 PFIs met 116 financial criteria, or the compliance is 83% [116 criteria met out of 140
(5x28) required]. We could rate the PFIs’ compliance with accreditation criteria as Satisfactory
(S).
         Besides, if we expand rating to other 5 non-financial criteria, there will be 280 (10 x 28)
criteria required for 28 PFIs. Since all 28 PFIs meet 5 non-financial criteria, we get 256 criteria
met out of 280 required, or the PFIs’ compliance is 91%, which is also rated as Satisfactory (S).
(ii) Option 2: Calculation based on individual PFI’s performance: 96.4% of PFIs’ compliance
(27 out of 28 PFIs) are rated Marginally Satisfactory (MS – 25%) and above (S and HS – 17.9%
and 53.5% respectively). Since the trend is toward higher, the conclusion withdrawn is that PFIs’
compliance is rated as Satisfactory (S). There is only 1 out of 28 PFIs (3.6%) is rated HU.
(iii)Option 3: Based on weighted average points given to number of criteria that each PFI meets.
In the Table above we get a total of 143 points for all PFIs, or on average 5.10 points to each
(143/28 PFIs). The point is a bit above Satisfactory (S) but far from Highly Satisfactory (HS). In
this option, we could firmly rate the PFIs’ compliance as Satisfactory (S).
In summary, the overall PFIs compliance with accreditation criteria and/or with time-bound IDP
is rated as Satisfactory (S).




                                                55
                         Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

•   World Bank Country Assistance Strategy, Board Document Number IDA/R2007-0005/3
•   World Bank Project Appraisal Document of April 28, 2008
•   Financing Agreement between IDA and Socialist Republic of Vietnam of November 14, 2008
•   World Bank Implementation Status and Results Reports, Archived Numbers 1-
•   World Bank Mission Aide Memoires
•   BIDV Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
•   BIDV Institutional Development Plans Progress Report
•   Center for Research, Consultant on Environmental and Sustainable Development – National
    Economics University (NEU), Environmental Audit Report May 2012 (finalized in August
    2012)
•   Institute for Environmental Science and Development (VESDEC), Environmental Audit
    Report December 2013
•   Mekong Economics Ltd. (MEL), Socio-economic Survey/Assessment Report of November
    2011 (finalized in March 2012)
•   Mekong Economics Ltd. (MEL), Socio-economic Survey/Assessment Report of December
    2013
•   Vietnam Environment and Sustainable Development Institute (VESDI), Environmental
    Guidelines Compliance Technical Assistance Reports (two reports for two sets of sub-projects
    over two separate time periods) - July 2010 and June 2013
•   World Bank Implementation Completion and Results Report for Rural Finance II Project of
    June 2010
•   World Bank Project Performance Assessment Report for Rural Finance I Project of May 2009
•   Harvard-UNIDO Study on SMEs in Vietnam of 2013




                                           56
MAP IBRD 35972




                                      INSERT

                                        MAP

                                       HERE



                    AFTER APPROVAL BY COUNTRY DIRECTOR

           AN ORIGINAL MAP OBTAINED FROM GSD MAP DESIGN UNIT

                               SHOULD BE INSERTED

                            MANUALLY IN HARD COPY

                 BEFORE SENDING A FINAL ICR TO THE PRINT SHOP.




                         NOTE: To obtain a map, please contact

                         the GSD Map Design Unit (Ext. 31482)

                     A minimum of a one week turnaround is required




                                        57
