Page  1
                                         CONFORMED COPY
                 AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-30 ZR
                African Facility Credit
                       Agreement
            (Structural Adjustment Credit)
                        between
                   REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                as ADMINISTRATOR of the
        SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
                  Dated July 29, 1987
                 AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-30 ZR
           AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1987, between the REPUBLIC
OF ZAIRE (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
     WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the
International Development Association (IDA) have
established by their Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21,
1985, (the Resolution), a Special Facility for Sub-
Saharan Africa (the African Facility) constituted by the
funds which shall be contributed by the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as
Administrator of the African Facility, for the purpose
of, and in accordance with, the provisions of the
Resolution;
     (B)  the Administrator has received a letter, dated
June 2, 1987 from the Borrower describing a program and
calendar of actions, objectives and policies designed to
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy
Page  2
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Administrator in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution;
     (C)  the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the
Program and, by an agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and IDA (the Development Credit
Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide such assistance in
an aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty-two
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
42,200,000) (the IDA Credit);
     (D)  the Borrower also intends to receive additional
financing for the Program from Japan in an amount
equivalent to two billion two hundred million yen (Y
2,200,000,000) in the form of a grant (the Japanese
Grant) in the amount of one billion one hundred million
yen (Y 1,100,000,000) and a loan in the same amount; and
     WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend to the Borrower,
in support of the Program, the African Facility Credit in
two tranches upon the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the International
Development Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  the term "Association", when used in the
General Conditions, means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the African
Facility, except in the phrase "member of the
Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e)
thereof;
     (b)  the terms "Development Credit Agreement",
"Credit" and "Credit Account", when used in the General
Conditions, are amended to read "African Facility Credit
Agreement", "African Facility Credit" and "African
Facility Credit Account", respectively;
     (c)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to
read:
          "'Project' means the imports and other activi-
     ties that may be financed out of the proceeds of
     the African Facility Credit pursuant to the
     provisions of Schedule 1 to the African Facility
     Credit Agreement.";
     (d)  the second sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
     (e)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
     (f)  in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term
"Association" shall
also include the International Development Association
acting in its own capacity; and
Page  3
     (g)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the
     Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
     for this purpose between the Borrower and the
     Administrator, the Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the Administrator a report, of such
     scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall
     reasonably request, on the execution of the program
     referred to in the Preamble to the African Facility
     Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower
     and the Administrator of their respective
     obligations under the African Facility Credit
     Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
     the African Facility Credit."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard
International Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC,
Rev. 2), published in Commodity Indexes for the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revised, Statistical
Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 2 (1981);
     (b)  "Zaires" and "Z" mean the currency of the
Borrower; and
     (c)  "Special Account B" means the account referred
to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
                      ARTICLE II
              The African Facility Credit
     Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to
the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the African Facility Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-two
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
72,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility
Credit may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of this Section
and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Administrator.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Program, open and maintain in dollars a special account
(Special Account B) in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. Deposits
into, and payments out of, Special Account B shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1988, or such later date as the Administrator shall
establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
African Facility Credit not withdrawn from time to time.
The commitment charge shall accrue from a date sixty days
after the date of the African Facility Credit Agreement
Page  4
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility
Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in
this Agreement for purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the amount withdrawn
from the African Facility Credit Account and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in
each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the
principal amount of the African Facility Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each April 1 and
October 1, commencing October 1, 1997, and ending April
1, 2037. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on April 1, 2007, shall be one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half
percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The Bank of Zaire is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions, and the Borrower hereby
entrusts the Bank of Zaire with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under the African
Facility Credit and for the collection of the documents
and other evidence to be furnished to the Administrator
in support of such applications; such withdrawal
applications shall to the extent practicable be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate
amounts of not less than $5,000,000 equivalent.
                      ARTICLE III
                 Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator
shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program and on the actions specified in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator for its
review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Page  5
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures financed out of
the proceeds of the African Facility Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred to in
               paragraph (a) of this Section, including
               Special Account B, audited for each
               fiscal year in accordance with appro-
               priate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors
               acceptable to the Administrator;
          (ii) furnish to the Administrator, as soon as
               available, but in any case not later than
               six months after the end of each such
               year, a certified copy of the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the
               Administrator shall have reasonably
               requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Administrator such
               other information concerning the
               said accounts and the audit thereof
               and said records as the
               Administrator shall from time to
               time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the African Facility Credit Account and
payments out of Special Account B were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Administrator has received the audit
               report for the fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from the African Facility
               Credit Account or payment out of Special
               Account B was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
         (iii) enable the Administrator's
               representatives to examine such
               records; and
          (iv) ensure that such separate accounts be
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report thereof contain, in respect of
               such separate accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether
               the proceeds of the African Facility
               Credit withdrawn from the African
               Facility Credit Account or, paid out of
               Special Account B in respect of such
               expenditures were used for the purposes
               for which they were provided.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall sell the foreign
currencies disbursed from the African Facility Credit
Page  6
Account to the purchasers of goods under the Program at
the Kinshasa interbank rate or other market-determined
rate.
                      ARTICLE IV
             Remedies of the Administrator
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  an event has occurred which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out; and
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to
                    withdraw the proceeds of any grant
                    or loan made to the Borrower for the
                    financing of the Program shall have
                    been suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated in whole or in part,
                    pursuant to the terms of the
                    agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due
                    and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity thereof.
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Borrower establishes to
               the satisfaction of the Administrator
               that:
               (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
                    termination or prematuring is not
                    caused by the failure of the
                    Borrower to perform any of its
                    obligations under such agreement;
                    and
               (B)  adequate funds for the Program are
                    available to the Borrower from other
                    sources on terms and conditions
                    consistent with the obligations of
                    the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 4..02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph
(b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                       ARTICLE V
             Effective Date; Termination;
             Designation of Administrator
     Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the African
Facility Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
     Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive
Page  7
Directors of IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA
as Administrator of the African Facility pursuant to
paragraph 10 of the Resolution, the Administrator may, by
notice to the Borrower, designate another party which, on
the date specified in such notice, shall assume part or
all of the rights and obligations of the Administrator
under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution
and such decision of the Executive Directors, as
specified in such notice.
                      ARTICLE VI
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of
this Agreement, the Commissioner of State of the Borrower
responsible for finance is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Departement des Finances
          Boite Postale No. 12997
          Kinshasa 1
          Republic of Zaire
          Cable address:                Telex:
               DENFIN                   21161 KIN/GOMBE
               Kinshasa
     For the Administrator:
          Administrator of the African Facility
          (International Development Association)
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS                  440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
               By /s/ NGUZ a KARL-I-BOND
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
               SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Page  8
               By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa
                      SCHEDULE I
           Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
                African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to
in this Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required during the execution
of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds;
provided, however, that no such proceeds shall be used to
finance the purchase of any goods not subject to veri-
fication as to quantity, payment and, except in cases of
international competitive bidding, cost, by an inspection
agency satisfactory to the Administrator.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods included in the
following SITC groups or sub-groups:
Group          Sub-group      Description of Items
     112          -           Alcoholic beverages
     121          -           Tobacco, unmanufactured
                              tobacco refuse
     122          -           Tobacco, manufactured
     667          -           Pearls, precious and
                              semi-precious stones,
                              unworked or worked
     688          -           Uranium depleted in U235
                              and thorium, and their
                              alloys, unwrought or
                              wrought, and articles
                              therefor, n.e.s.; waste
                              and scrap of uranium
                              depleted in U235 and of
                              thorium
     718       718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                              parts thereof, n.e.s.
     897       897.3          Jewelry of gold,
                              silver or platinum
                              group metals (except
                              watches and watch
                              cases) and
                              goldsmiths' or
                              silversmiths' wares
                              (including set gems)
      -        971.0          Gold, non-monetary
                              (excluding gold ores
                              and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or
for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower;
Page  9
     (c)  payments for expenditures made prior to the date of
this Agreement;
     (d)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts
costing less than $20,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods supplied under a
contract which any national or international financing
institution or agency other than the Administrator shall
have financed or agreed to finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended for a military
or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; or
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount
equivalent to SDR 10,000,000 for petroleum products and
foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall
be entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit after the
aggregate of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account and
the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of SDR 21,000,000, unless the Admin-
istrator shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (a) with
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out
of the Program; and (b) that the actions described in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after exchange of views, the Association is not
so satisfied and this situation shall not be rectified by
the Borrower within 90 days after notice thereof by the
Association, then the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the amount of the Credit unwithdrawn
from the Credit Account or any part thereof.
                      SCHEDULE 2
                   Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required during the execution of the Program
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount of $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposited into Special
Account B pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
payments out of Special Account B shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence
satisfactory to it that Special Account B has been duly
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish Special Account B may
be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of a request or requests by the
Borrower for a deposit or deposits which add up to the
Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility
Page  10
Credit Account and deposit into Special Account B such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator
requests for replenishment of Special Account B at such
intervals or in such minimum amounts as the Administrator
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Administrator shall withdraw from the African Facility
Credit Account and deposit into Special Account B such
amounts as shall be required to replenish Special Account
B with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made
out of Special Account B for eligible expenditures. Each
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from
the African Facility Credit Account in the respective
equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the
evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special
Account B, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Administrator such documents and other evidence as the
Administrator shall reasonably request, showing that such
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3
of this Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account
B shall be made by the Administrator when either of the
following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Administrator shall have determined
               that all further withdrawals should be
               made by the Borrower directly from the
               African Facility Credit Account in
               accordance with the provisions of Article
               V of the General Conditions and paragraph
               (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
          (ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the
               African Facility Credit, minus the amount
               of any outstanding special commitment
               entered into by the Administrator
               pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
               Conditions, shall be equal to the
               equivalent of twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the African
Facility Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the African Facility Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in Special Account B as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall have determined at
any time that any payment out of Special Account B: (i)
was made f or any expenditure or in any amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not Justified by the evidence furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
Special Account B (or, if the Administrator shall so
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the
Administrator into Special Account B shall be made until
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Administrator shall have determined at
Page  11
any time that any amount outstanding in Special Account
B will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall-, promptly upon
notice from the Administrator, refund to the
Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting to
the African Facility Credit Account.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                      Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be
awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  All references in the Guidelines to the Bank
and to loans shall be deemed to be references to the
Administrator and to the African Facility Credit,
respectively.
     (b)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and
the following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified
     in a timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This
     will be done by advertising invitations to apply
     for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to
     apply for prequalification, or to bid; such
     advertisements should be placed in at least one
     newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's
     country and, in addition, in at least one of the
     following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the United Nations
               publication, Development Forum, Business
               Edition; or
          (ii) an advertisement in a newspaper,
               periodical or technical journal of wide
               international circulation; or
         (iii) a notice to local representatives of
               countries and territories referred
               to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods
               required."
     (c)  The following is added at the end of paragraph
2.21 of the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents
     may require the bidder to state the bid price in a
     single currency widely used in international trade
     and specified in the bidding documents."
     (d)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are
deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $1,000,000 each shall be awarded on the
basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods, except that at least three
quotations shall be invited by governmental purchasers
unless there are fewer potential suppliers.
Page  12
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Administrator, prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the African Facility Credit Account or payment
out of Special Account B in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering
procedures followed and such other information as the
Administrator shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Administrator, prior to the submission to the
Administrator of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the African Facility Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the
Administrator may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and
4 of this Schedule, where payments under a contract are
to be made out of the proceeds of Special Account B, the
copies of such contract or the documentation and the
information to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the
Administrator as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and
5 shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Administrator has authorized withdrawals from the African
Facility Credit Account or payments out of Special
Account B on the basis of statements of expenditure.
                      SCHEDULE 4
     Actions Referred to in paragraph 3 Clause (b)
            of Schedule I to this Agreement
1.   Revision of macroeconomic framework for 1988-91
including the level and composition of the 1988-91 Public
Investment Program;
2.   establishment of an oversight structure for
supervision of public enterprises, and the appointment of
its head;
3.   classification of enterprises to be maintained in
state portfolio, liquidated or wholly or partially
privatized;
4.   finalization of a restructuring and reorganization
program for public enterprises remaining in the state
portfolio; and
5.   completion of financial and administrative
arrangements for the retirement of eligible public
employees.
