AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT         ER A-30 ZR
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                          , 1987


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER A-30 ZR
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        TLA     *2           , 1987, between
the REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) the Administrator has received a letter, dated June 2,
1987 from the Borrower describing a program and calendar of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program, and requesting assistance from the Administrator in
the financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Program and, by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(the Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
forty-two million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 42,200,000) (the IDA Credit);
(D) the Borrower also intends to receive additional
financing for the Program from Japan in an amount equivalent to
two billion two hundred million yen (Y 2,200,000,000) in the form
of a grant (the Japanese Grant) in the amount of one billion one
hundred million yen (Y 1,100,000,000) and a loan in the same
amount; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend to the Borrower, in support of
the Program, the African Facility Credit in two tranches upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General Con-
ditions, means the International Development Association acting
as Administrator of the African Facility, except in the phrase
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit"
and "Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African
Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", res-
pectively;
(c) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activi-
ties that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
African Facility Credit pursuant to the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the African Facility Credit Agreement.";
(d) the second sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
(f) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity; and
(g) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this pur-
pose between the Borrower and the Administrator, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the


﻿- 3 -
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion of the program referred to in the Preamble to the
African Facility Credit Agreement, the performance by
the Borrower and the Administrator of their respective
obligations under the African Facility Credit Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the African
Facility Credit."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 2
(1981);
(b) "Zaires" and "Z" mean the currency of the Borrower; and
(c) "Special Account B" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 ( ) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to seventy-two million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 72,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of this Section and of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Administrator.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open  and  maintain   in  dollars  a   special  account  (Special
Account B) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of,
Special Account B shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amount of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each April 1 and October 1, commencing October 1,
1997, and ending April 1, 2037. Each installment to and including


﻿-5-
the installment payable on April 1, 2007, shall be one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The curre--y of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Bank of Zaire is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Condi-
tions, and the Borrower hereby entrusts the Bank of Zaire with
responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications
under the African Facility Credit and for the collection of the
documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Administrator
in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications
shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply
for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $5,000,000
equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and on the
actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Administrator for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and


﻿-6-
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including Special Account B, audited
for each fiscal year in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acc--ptable to the Admin-
istrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning the said accounts and the audit
thereof and said records as the Administrator
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the African Facility Credit Account and payments out of
Special Account B were made on the basis of statements of expen-
diture, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Adminis-
trator has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the African Facility Credit Account or payment
out   of Special Account B was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the  Administrator's   representatives  to
examine such records; and


﻿-7-
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts be included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contain,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the African Facility Credit withdrawn
from the African Facility Credit Account or paid
out of Special Account B in respect of such expen-
ditures were used for the purposes for which they
were provided.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall sell the foreign currencies
disbursed from the African Facility Credit Account to the pur-
chasers of goods under the Program at the Kinshasa interbank rate
or other market-determined rate.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out; and
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Program
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Administrator that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of


﻿-8-
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Program are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event-specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) o)f the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement have'beern
fulfilled,.
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date ot
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as Administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Adminis-
trator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution and
such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in such
no tice.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Commissioner of State of the Borrower responsible


﻿- 9 -
for finance is desi-nated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Condti
For the Borrower:
Departement des Finances
Bolte Postale No. 12997
Kinshasa 1
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                    Telex:
DENFIN                           21161 KIN/GOMBE
Kinshasa
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By/5/ EdCWk rd           V. k. Jc          ;<CC
/  /                Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credic may be
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of
such proceeds; provided, however, that no such proceeds shall be
used to finance the purchase of any goods not subject to veri-
fication as to quantity, payment and, except in cases of inter-
national competitive bidding, cost, by an inspection agency
satisfactory to the Administrator.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -               Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -               Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7              Nuclear   reactors,  and  parts
thereof, n.e.s.


﻿- 12 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
897      897.3              Jewelry  of  gold,   silver  or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths'   or  silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
-       9/1.0              Gold, non-monetary   (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments for expenditures made prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $20,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption; or
(g) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equiva-
lent to SDR 10,000,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the
African Facility Credit withdrawn from the African Facility
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have reached the equivalent of SDR 21,000,000, unless the Admin-
istrator shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as des-
cribed in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; and
(b) that the actions described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
have been taken.


﻿- 13 -
4.   If, after exchange of views, the Association is not so
satisfied and this situation shall not be rectified by the Bor-
rower within 90 days after notice thereof by the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
amount of the Credit unwithdrawn from the Credit Account or any
part thereof.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account B
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and     .
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and deposited into Special Account B pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account B shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that Special Account B has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account B may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the African Facility Credit Account and deposit into
Special Account B such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator re-
quests for replenishment of Special Account B at such intervals
or in such minimum amounts as the Administrator shall specify. On
the basis of such requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from
the African Facility Credit Account and deposit into Special
Account B such amounts as shall be required to replenish Special
Account B with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made
out of Special Account B for eligible expenditures. Each such
deposit shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African
Facility Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts as
shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request


﻿- 15 -
for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.   For each   payment made by    the Borrower out of Special
Account B, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account B shall be made
by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  the  total  unwithdrawn  amount   of  the  African
Facility Credit, minus the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Admin-
istrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions, shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in Special Account B as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account B: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into
Special Account B (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of


﻿- 16 -
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Administrator into Special
Account B shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit
or refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account B will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded
through international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
(a) All references in the Guidelines to the Bank and to
loans shall be deemed to be references to the Administrator and
to the African Facility Credit, respectively.
(b) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Devel-
opment Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(c) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As  a  further  alternative, bidding    documents  may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single


﻿- 18 -
currency widely used in international trade and specified
in the bidding documents."
(d) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less
than $1,000,000 each shall be awarded on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods, except
that at least three quotations shall be invited by governmental
purchasers unless there are fewer potential suppliers.
3.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility Credit
Account or payment out of Special Account B in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Administrator shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the submission to the Administrator of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the African Facility Credit
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as
the Administrator may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of Special Account B, the copies of such contract or
the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or para-
graph 4 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished
to the Administrator as part of the evidence required under para-
graph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Administrator has
authorized withdrawals from the African Facility Credit Account
or payments out of Special Account B on the basis of statements
of expenditure.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 Clause (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Revision of macroeconomic framework for 1988-91 including
the level and composition of the 1988-91 Public Investment
Program;
2.   establishment of an oversight structure for supervision of
public enterprises, and the appointment of its head;
3.   classification of enterprises to be maintained in state
portfolio, liquidated or wholly or partially privatized;
4.   finalization of a restructuring and reorganization program
for public enterprises remaining in the state portfolio; and
5.   completion of financial and administrative arrangements for
the retirement of eligible public employees.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


