AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-30 ZR
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
Dated                            , 1987


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-30 ZR
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     y        a                 1987, between
the REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE (the Beneficiary) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator (the Administrator) on
behalf of the GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985 (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds contributed by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and other donors and
administered by IDA, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) Pursuant to Section F of the Resolution, Japan has
agreed to provide funds in the form of a contribution (the SJF
Contribution) in support of projects and of programs of struc-
tural change, policy reform and institutional improvement in
countries which are eligible for financing from the African
Facility's resources;
(C) by the agreement set forth in the letter of Japan and
confirmed by IDA on August 19, 1986, (the Letter) concerning the
SJF Contribution, Japan and IDA agreed that IDA will act as Admi-
nistrator of the Japanese funds in accordance with the provisions
of the Letter;
(D) the Administrator has received a letter, dated June 2,
1987, from the Beneficiary describing a program and calendar of
actions, objectives and policies designed to improve the effi-
ciency of the economy sector of the Beneficiary (hereinafter
called the Program), declaring the Beneficiary's commitment to
the execution of the Program and requesting assistance from the
resources of the African Facility in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution, and the Adminis-
trator has determined that such assistance would be in accordance
with the provisions of the Resolution;
(E) the Beneficiary has requested Japanese funds from the
Administrator for additional assistance in the financing of the
Program, and the Administrator has determined that provision of
such funds in an amount of one billion one hundred million yen


﻿- 2 -
(Y 1,100,000,000) (the Japanese Grant) would be in accordance
with the provisions of the Resolution and the Letter;
(F) the Beneficiary also intends to receive from Japan
additional financing for the Program in the form of a loan in the
amount of one billion one hundred million yen (Y 1,100,000,000);
and
(G) the Beneficiary has received from IDA a development
credit in an amount equivalent to forty-two million two hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 42,200,000) and from   IDA,
as Administrator of the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa,
an African Facility Credit in an amount equivalent to seventy-two
million  two hundred   thousand Special Drawing Rights      (SDR
72,200,000), the latter pursuant to an agreement between IDA
as such Administrator and the Beneficiary, dated               ,
(hereafter called the African Facility Credit Agreement), each to
assist the Beneficiary in financing the Program;
WHEREAS, the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to act as Administrator of the Japanese
Grant;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means IDA acting as Administrator of the Japanese
Grant, except in the phrase "member of the Association" in Sec-
tions 2.01(5) and 6.02(e)(i);
(b) the term    "Borrower", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the Beneficiary;
(c) the terms "Credit", "Development Credit Agreement" and
"Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Japanese Grant", "Japanese Grant Agreement" and
"Japanese Grant Account", respectively;


﻿-3-
(d) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04,
4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01(a), the second sentence of Section 5.01
and Article XII are deleted;
(e) in Sections 2.01 and 6.02, the term "Association" shall
include also the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity; and
(f) paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as
follows:
"The term 'Project' means the purchases of the imports
that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Japanese
Grant in accordance with Section 2.02 (a) of the Japanese
Grant Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, with the exception of
paragraph (c) of Section 1.02 of the African Facility Credit
Agreement, have the respective meanings therein set forth, and
the following terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account C" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(b) "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those Articles
and any other member of IDA determined to be a Part II member
pursuant to Article II, paragraph 1 (b) of such Articles.
ARTICLE II
The Japanese Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Beneficiary, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, a grant in various currencies equivalent to
one billion one hundred million Yen (Y 1,100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Japanese Grant may be
withdrawn from the Japanese Grant Account in accordance with the
provisions of this Section and of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Sched-


﻿-4-
ule 1 to the African Facility Credit Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended, from time to time, by agreement between the Bene-
ficiary and IDA, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Program and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Japanese Grant.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; and (ii) any
country designated by IDA, acting as Administrator of the
African Facility, as meeting the provisions set forth in
paragraphs 4(f)(ii) or (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Beneficiary shall, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in yen a special account (Special Account C)
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, Special
Account C shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a)
above, the Administrator shall, at the request of Japan, suspend
the Beneficiary's right to make withdrawals and payments out of
Special Account B under this Agreement if an event shall have
occurred which would have entitled the Administrator to suspend
the Beneficiary's right to make withdrawals under the African
Facility Credit Agreement (whether or not the full amount of the
African Facility Credit has then been withdrawn).
(e) Whenever a disbursement from the Japanese Grant Account
is required to be made in a currency other than yen for the pur-
poses of this Agreement, the Administrator shall withdraw from
the Japanese Grant Account an amount in yen sufficient for the
Administrator to purchase the required amount of the appropriate
currency.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Program and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Japanese Grant shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the African
Facility Credit Agreement; provided, however, that the eligi-
bility requirements set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement shall be stated in the tender documents for the
procurement of such goods.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Beneficiary of such later
date.
Section   2.05. The Bank of Zaire is designated as repre-
sentative of the Beneficiary for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Effectiveness; Termination;
Representatives
Section 3.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
African Facility Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 3.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 3.03. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Beneficiary and of the Administrator thereunder shall terminate
on the date two years after the date of this Agreement or on the
date of the disbursement of the balance of the proceeds of the
Grant, whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 3.04. Except as provided in Section 2.05 above, the
Commissioner of State of the Beneficiary responsible for finance
shall be the representative of the Beneficiary for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 3.05. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the
African Facility Credit Agreement shall be the addresses speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By      N&ruL a kAIRL -1- ROWD
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN
B4w VW    A    V. '    Ja covx
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Special Account C
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of the goods and services required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Japanese Grant in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to the African Facility Credit Agreement; and
(b)  the  term   "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount
equivalent to 500,000 dollars to be withdrawn from the Japanese
Grant Account and deposited into Special Account C pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account C shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that Special Account C has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account C may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Bene-
ficiary for a deposit or deposits which add up to the amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Beneficiary, withdraw from the Japanese Grant Account and
deposit into Special Account C such amount or amounts as the
Beneficiary shall have requested.
(b) The Beneficiary shall furnish to the Administrator
requests for replenishment of Special Account C at such intervals
or in such minimum amounts as the Administrator shall specify. On
the basis of such requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from
the Japanese Grant Account and deposit into Special Account C
such amounts as shall be required to replenish Special Account C
with amounts no exceeding the amount of payments made out of
Special Account C for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Japanese Grant


﻿- 8 -
Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Beneficiary out of Special
Account C, the Beneficiary shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to or at the time of any request for replenishment, or
at the request of the Administrator, such documents and other
evidence as the Administrator shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account C shall be made
by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)  the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Bene-
ficiary directly from the Japanese Grant Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article II of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Sec-
tion 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Japanese Grant
minus the amount of any special commitment entered
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Japanese Grant Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Japanese Grant shall
follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by
notice to the Beneficiary. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
Special Account C as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account C: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Beneficiary
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, deposit into


﻿-9-
Special Account C (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Administrator into Special
Account C shall be made until the Beneficiary has made such
deposit or refund.
(b)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account C will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Beneficiary shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the Japanese Grant Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
)
FOR SECRETARY


