LoAAJ &"i1-ZJ                    F     ET        P
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-689a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
INDIA
May Z3, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1. 00           = Rupees 7. 50
Rs 1.00              = US $0. 13
Rs 1 million         = US $133, 333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Mixed English and Metric System
1 acre (ac)         = 0. 405 hectares (ha)
1 kilogram (kg)     = 2. 205 pounds (lb)
1 quintal (qtl)     =  100 kg
= 220.5 lb
1 metric ton ( m ton)  = 2205 lb
ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
ARC:                   Agricultural Refinance Corporation
ETO:                   Exploratory Tubewell Organization
GOI:                   Government of India
GSI                    Geological Survey of India
HVP:                   High Yielding Varieties Program
IARI                   Indian Agricultural Research Institute
ICAR:                  Indian Council of Agricultural Research
MFACDC:                Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community
Development and Cooperation
NSC:                   National Seeds Corporation
R BI:                  Reserve Bank of India
SBI:                    State Bank of India
SEB:                   State Electricty Board
TDC:                   Tarai Development Corporation
UP:                    Uttar Pradesh
UPAU:                  Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University



INDIA
TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY .... . . . . . . . . ..                                      i
I.        INTRODUCTION .1
II.       BACKGROUND  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  2
A.   The High Yielding Varieties Program  . . . . . . .    2
B.   Seed Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
C.   Seed Production and the Seed Industry  . . . . . .    3
D.   Quality Control and Legislation  . . . . . . . . .    4
III.      PROJECT AREA  .....................                        4
A.   Ecology, Communications and Power Supplies . . . .    4
B.   Agriculture  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .   .   .  ...   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  5
C.   Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University (UPAU) . . .    6
IV. THE PROJECT               ..                                     7
A. Project Definition.                                     7
B. Farm Development.                                       8
C.   Seed Processing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
D.   Seed Certification and Quality Control . . . . . .   10
E. Cost Estimates .11
F. Proposed Financing .13
G. Procurement.                                           14
V.        ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
A. General .15
B.   Tarai Development Corporation  . . . . . . . . . .   16
C.   Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University  . . . . . .   17
D. Contractors .18
E. Consultants .18
F.   Credit  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  18
G. Accounts and Audit .19
This report is based on the findings of a mission in April and May 1968 to
India composed of Messrs. Darnell, Eccles and Pickering of the Bank,
Mr. Courbois (of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program) and Mr. Norden (Con-
sultant to the Bank). Mr. Beach of the Bank also contributed materially
to its preparation.



Table of Contents (Cont'd):
Page No.
VI.       SEED PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARMERS' BENEFITS  . . .  20
A.   Yields, Area and Production of Seed Crops  . . . .  20
B.   Prices and Marketing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
C.   TDC Operating Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
D.   Farmers' Operating Results . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
VII.      BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
VIII.     CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
ANNEXES
1. High Yielding Varieties Program
2. Development of the Indian Seed Industry
3. Soils and Water Resources in the Project Area
4. Project Farm Sizes and Irrigated Acreages
5. Land Levelling
6. Extension of Electrification Facilities
7. Farm Mechanization
8. Seed Processing
9. Investment Costs
10.  Credit Policies and Procedures
11. Credit and Banking System in India
12. TDC Cash Flow Projection
13. Cash Flow and Financial Rate of Return on
Additional Investment for 100 acre Portion
of Farm Developed for Seed Production
14. Economic Return Calculation
IvMAP



INDIA
TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
SUMMARY
(i)       The Government of India (GOI) has applied for a Bank loan to
help finance a seeds development project in the Tarai area of Uttar Pradesh
State (UP) in north India. The project was evolved following FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program Missions in 1966 and 1967 whici prepared a proposal in
conjunction with GOI. The project would involve some 400 farmers in the
production of foodgrain crops for seed. The estimated cost of the project
is US$22.4 million equivalent (Rs 168 million).
(ii)      The objective of the project would be to increase agricultural
production by expanding the availability of seeds of high yielding varieties
of foodgrains in India as part of GOI's "new strategy" for agricultural
development introduced in 1965, which seeks to promote rapid increases in
the annual growth rate of foodgrain production. The project would, at full
development after five years, service some seven million acres annually.
(iii)     Under the project local adaptations of high yielding dwarf wheat
varieties, new hybrids of maize, sorghum and pearl millet and high yielding
rice varieties would be grown for seed. Seed production involves its own
specialized technology in both production and processing which must be
developed and perfected under Indian conditions if a reliable product is to
be marketed for purchase by farmers. The project would seek to promote the
development of some 46,000 acres from which, with double cropping and ade-
quate fertilizers, about 46,000 tons of high quality seed would be produced,
processed and sold each year at full development. On-farm development for
seed production would entail provision of tubewell irrigation, land levell-
ing, installation of underground water distribution systems in the fields
and more intensive mechanization of farming operations. This development
would be made possible by provision of credit to suitable farmers through
the State Bank of India (SBI). Bank financing would include the provision of
the foreign exchange required to meet fertilizer needs of seed crops. Seed
produced from farmers' holdings would be processed in two plants to be built
and operated by the Tarai Development Corporation (TDC) in the project area.
TDC, a private company whose membership would include farmers, the National
Seed Corporation (NSC), the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University (UPAU) and
commercial organizations, would also be responsible for marketing seed and for
provision of other services to seed producers.
(iv)      The project is technically and economically sound and is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$13.0 million, for a term of 30 years with a grace period
of 10 years and repayment over 20 years thereafter. The recipient of the
loan would be GOI.






INDIA
TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested a Bank loan to assist
in financing a seed development project in the Tarai area of Uttar Pradesh
State (UP). The project consists of the development of some 46,o0o acres on
farmers' holdings for seed production of high yielding varieties of food-
grains, mainly wheat, maize and rice plus the provision of an organization
and facilities for processing and subsequent marketing of the seed.
1.02      The project proposal follows from the Government's, "new strategy"
for agricultural development. This entails the widespread use of high
yielding varieties of foodgrains in selected areas of assured water supply,
coupled with fertilizer, plant protection, mechanization and other inputs,
with the objective of promoting substantial increases in foodgrain production
by 1970/71 (see Annex 1). The project would contribute by expanding seed
supplies of high yielding varieties of foodgrains in suitable locations.
1.03      Implementation and commercial organization of the project would
largely rest with the Tarai Development Corporation (TDC), a private company
recently set up for the purpose, in association with the State Bank of India
(SBI) and the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University (UPAU). TDC would or-
ganize production of raw seed by participating farmers, provision and opera-
tion of seed processing facilities, and marketing of clean seed. Credit for
project development would be made available by SBI, through its branches in
the project area, to TDC, participating farmers, contractors and the State
Electricity Board (SEB). UPAU would provide extension services to guide seed
crop cultivation and would prepare farm development plans which would be the
basis for credit agreements between SBI and participating farmers. The major
portion of the proposed Bank loan would be on-lent by GOI to project partici-
pants, through the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC).
1.04      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a Bank Mission
in April/May 1968, consisting of Messrs. Darnell, Eccles, Pickering (of the
Bank), Courbois (of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program) and Norden (consultant
to the Bank). Mr. J. Beach of the Bank assessed and reported on the proposed
extension to electric power facilities for the project. The project proposal
was prepared with the assistance of a mission from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program which visited India in March 1967 subsequent to project identifica-
tion by an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program Mission which visited India in
November/Deceemi7er 1966.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. The High Yielding Varieties Program
2.01      A major objective of GOI's planned development activities through
1970/71 is to increase the growth rate in foodgrain production from the
level of 2.6% achieved in the Third Plan to 6.1% per annum. GOI is giving
the highest priority to agriculture, and is undertaking, in its High Yield-
ing Varieties Program (HVP), to guarantee the availability of adequate
supplies of good quality seeds of high yielding varieties of foodgrains
plus other critical inputs in areas with the greatest production potential
selected by the States, an estimated 32 million acres or roughly 11% of the
total area devoted to foodgrain production (see Annex 1).
2.02      The table below shows detailed targets for HVP and the contrib4-
tion that the project would make to realize these targets by 1970/71 and at
full development three years later.
HVP TARGETS AND PROJECT PRODUCTION
1/
High Yielding   Targets      Seed Required-/     Estimated Project Production
Varieties     1970/71      to meet Targets         197D/71         1973/74
million acres   - - - - - - - - - - tons    - - - - - - - - - -
Wheat              8.o            80,000              20,800          23,?00
Hybrid Maize,
Sorghum, Millet   12.0            56,000               7,700          15,200
Rice              12.5            37,500               4,200           7,250
1/   Assuming seed change-over every four years for wheat and rice and every
year for hybrids.
Plans exist to produce the seed targets in HVP but, with the exception of
this project, no others have reached an advanced stage of discussion.
B. Seed Research
2.03      Formulation of the HVP followed successful results obtained from
intensive research programs on developing fertilizer responsive varieties of
the principal foodgrains of India -- wheat, maize, rice, jowar (sorghum)
and baJra 1/ (pearl millet) initiated in the late 1950's and early 1960's.
1/   The Indian terms jcwar and bajra are used subsequently in this report.



-3-
Research for the development of new varieties of foodgrains In wholly
confined to public sector organizations operated by GOI and State Governments.
Coordination of research is the responsibility of the Indian Council of Agri-
cultural Research (ICAR) through the All India Coordinated Breeding Program.
The Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) has occupied a prominent
position in this field together with the State Agricultural Universities of
Uttar Pradesh and the Punjab.
2.04      The development of new varieties owes much to the assistance of
the Rockefeller Foundation, which continues to play a valuable role in this
field and in other aspects of India's developing seed industry.
C. Seed Production and the Seed Industry
2.05      Following the release of stocks of breeder seeds 1/ from research
institutions 2/ the essential functions of the seed industry, that is pro-
duction, quality control and marketing, are co-ordinated by the National
Seeds Corporation (NSC). This institution was established in 1963 within
the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community Development and Cooperation
(MFACDC) as the official agency responsible for the promotion and develop-
ment of all aspects of the seed industry. Its responsibilities include:
-- maintenance of stocks of breeder seeds developed at research
centers in India or imported;
-- multiplication of foundation seed 3/ from breeder seed stocks;
-- inspection and certification of seed crops 3/ produced from
foundation seed;
-- organization and operation of training programs in seed testing
and certification;
-- procuring, testing and leasing seed processing equipment;
1/   Breeder seeds are those produced on research stations usually in very
small quantities as a result of plant breeding and/or selection programs,
see Annex 2.
2/   Via the Central Varieties Release Committee of GOI.
3/   Foundation seed is derived in one generation from breeder seed following
careful cultivation and rigorous selection and weed control. Certified
seed is derived from foundation seed in one generation, and is also care-
fully selected to maintain genetic identity and purity in accordance
with legally established standards. It is sold to farmers with a certif-
icate to this effect. Further information is in Annex 2.



-- investment on its own or in association with public or private
agencies in enterprises related to the seed industry.
NSC has met these responsibilities satisfactorily and can claim much of the
credit for the rapid advances made in the development of the seed industry
in India. The function and achievements of NSC are expanded upon in Annex 2.
D. quality Control and Legislation
2.o6      The Seeds Act passed in 1966 makes provision for voluntary seed
certification and truthful labelling of all seeds sold without certification.
Implementation would be by State agencies which are to be established for
this purpose and which would operate in accordance with centrally approved
procedures.
2.07      Recent rules for implementation of the Seeds Act appear to suffer
from a weakness relating to quality control. As amounts of seeds, numbers
of varieties and numbers of seed producers increase, the risk of mistakes in
the field or in the processing plants and warehouses increases proportion-
ately. Such mistakes, or the deliberate adulteration of seeds by unscrupulous
growers, would not always be detected by the certification measures proposed.
An additional system, of post control field tests, is required to detect such
adulteration, and GOI would be well advised to incorporate provision for this
procedure, which is common practice elsewhere, in future regulations for im-
plementation of the Seeds Act. In the meantime, however, assurances concern-
ing post control testing for project output haive been obtained (see para.
4.14). Annex 2 g,ives an explanation of post control testing.
III. PROJECT AREA
A. Ecology, Communications and Power Supplies
3.01      The project area extends roughly 60 miles from east to west and
some 12 miles from north to south in the Tarai belt of the State of Uttar
Pradesh (UP) in north India (see Map). The Tarai constitutes a fertile
belt of land sandwiched between the foothills of the Himalayas and the open
plains of UP.
3.02      The hydrogeological features of the Tarai have been the subject of
investigations by the Geological Survey of India (GSI) between 1959 and 1961
and by the Exploratory rubewell Organization (ETO) of the Ministry of Agri-
cul-ture from 1959 to 1962. These investigations indicate with reasonable
certainty that groundwater resources in the Tarai are adequate at least for
the agricultural development proposed in the project. However, the most
efficient method of future 'Large scale exploitation of these resources for
other areas in UP needs to be determined (see para. 4.05).



- 5 -
3.03      Rainfall records from the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University
(UPAU) at Pantnagar, in the project area, show a mean of about 60 inches per
annum and a range between 35 and 75 inches.   With a dry season normally
extending from October to April, 60 percent of the rainfall is concentrated
in the period from June through September. Other climatological data col-
lected by UPAU and broadly applicable throughout the project area indicate
its general suitability for the pattern of agricultural activity proposed.
3.o4      Data on the soils of the area are limited to surveys carried out on
some 1000 acres on the UPAU ftarm at Pantnagar (Annex 3). 'However, the suit-
ability of the soils of the l'arai for the project activities proposed is
clearly illustrated by the high yielding, good quality crops grown through-
out the area both under irrigated and rainfed farming conditions.
Communications
3.05      The area is comparatively well served by road, rail and air links.
Pantnagar has a small airport with regular twice weekly flights from Delhi.
The project area has main railway lines running from north to south in its
eastern and western regions. In addition, major and minor roads connect
the various centers of population with the rest of UP.
Power Supplies
3.o6      Although there is no overall shortage of power, existing trans-
mission and distribution lines are barely adequate to meet present day elec-
trical power needs in the Tarai area. The UP State Electricity Board (SEB)
is aware of the situation and has proposed plans acceptable to GOI and the
Bank as part of the project, for extending its network of lines and sub-
stations to meet the estimated power requirements of the project (see para.
4.07).
B. Agriculture
3.07      The entrepreneurial capacity of Tarai farmers is outstanding.   In
two decades following allocation of land to them under Government settlement
programs, by their own efforts and with their own resources, they have con-
verted the area from dense secondary forest and high grass to thriving farms
which compare favorably with similar enterprises in the developed countries.
Prior to this settlement, the area was virtually uninhabited and, for this
reason ih contrast to much of India, there is no local reservoir of surplus
labor available.
3.o8      Most holdings range between 30 and 250 acres.   A small number go
down to 10 acres, and there are also several very large holdings including
the UPAU farm of 10,000 acres. The UP Land Ceiling Law limits individual
ownership to 80 acres of land, but family cooperatives and other arrangements
result in the operation of many holdings above this limit. (See Annex 4 for
further details.)



- 6 -
3.09      Sugarcane is the major cash crop followed closely, and with rapidly
rising importance, by wheat, rice and maize with legumes and mustard occupy-
ing important although minor acreages within the rotation. The changing
cropping pattern is induced by declining sugar prices and the attractive re-
turns from high yielding varieties of foodgrains.
3.10      Irrigation, mainly by tubewell, is becoming more popular and most
farms have at least part of their area under irrigation (see Annex 4). Mech-
anized cultivation is widespread but its development is limited by difficul-
ties in obtaining spare parts and additional equipment.
C. Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University (UPAU)
3.11      Located at Pantnagar in the east of the project area (see Map),
established in 1960 and responsible for agricultural teaching, research and
extension in the State, UPAU has rapidly achieved a position of some emi-
nence throughout India and of great influence on farming in the Tarai. This
has been achieved largely by its development and extension of improved
cultural practices and the production of seed for HVP. The University has
expanded its Seed Production Program to include Associated Growers, selected
from farmers in the area, and the creation of a separate Seed Production
Division but the rising demand for seed exceeds the organization and facil-
ities of the division.
3.12      Processing facilities for certified seed, with a total capacity of
15,000 tons per annum, are located at Pantnagar and Kashipur (see Map) and
are controllec. by UPAU. These facilities have been developed piecemeal and
are not suitable for further expansion.
3.13      UPAU operates its own seed testing laboratory and certifies its
seed in accordance with standards established by NSC. Since its inception
in 1965, production of certified seed has risen from 455 tons to nearly
11,000 tons in 1957/68.
3.14      Most UPAU seed is supplied to the UP Government for distribution
to farmers. Demands have also been met however from the Governments of
Assam, Bengal, Bihar, Mysore and Rajasthan, and the University has estab-
lished a network of registered dealers within UP who sell seed surplus to
the requirements of the UP Government.
3.15      UPAU has developed, and is continuing to develop, a number of
related ancillary activities, notably its Land Development Division. This
group is responsible for planning the full irrigation of the 10,000 acre
University farm with related land levelling and the perfection of these
techniques for extension to farmers.



IV. THE PROJECT
A. 'Project Definition
4.01      The project is the development of part of the Tarai region of UP
to increase the production of certified seed of wheat, rice, maize, jowar
and bajra for use in GOI's High Yielding Vkrietie§ Program (see para. 2.01)
to some 46,000 tons per annum. It involves:
- on-farm development works on parts of about 400 farms
(with a total acreage of some 80,000 acres);
- provision of fana machinery, fertilizer, and foundation
seed to those farms;
- the execution of soil and topographic surveys;
- the preparation of farm plans;
- the extension of electric power distribution systems;
- the provision of seed processing facilities; and
- credit and technical assistance for the above purposes.
Processing and marketing of the seed produced would be carried out by the
Tarai Development Corporation (TDC), a private company created for the pur-
pose with a capital structure and management representing relevant private
and public sector interests.
4.02      To meet the production target of about 46,000 tons of certified
seed per annum, it is estimated that some 40,000 acres would need to be
planted to seed each year, of which some 24,000 acres would be planted in
the kharif (wet) season, with the remaining 16,000 acres in the rabi (dry)
season. To allow for crop rotation and for a reasonable degree of flexi-
bility in operations, it is considered that, of the total area of 80,000
acres, at least 46,000 acres of levelled, irrigated farm land would need to
be available within the project area. With some 10,000 acres already levelled
and some 20,000 acres already with adequatt irrigation facilities of which
only about 5,000 acres have adequate water distribution systems (see Annex 4),
the project would include:
a. the levelling of some 36,000 acres, of which about
4,000 acres could be handled by the farmers themselves,
and the remainder by contractors;
b. the provision of tubewells to irrigate some 26,000
acres; and



- 8 -
c. the provision of irrigation distribution systems to
some 41,000 acres.
Operations would be phased as follows:
1968/69   1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  TOTAL
(Existing)                  (Proposed)
-  - - - - - - - - - - - - Acres - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Levelling        10,000     5,000    8,ooo   lo,ooo    10,000   3,000  46,ooo
Irrigation       20,000     4,000    6,ooo    7,000     7,000   2,000  46,ooo
Distribution
System          5,000     6,000    9,000   11,000    ll,OOO   4,ooo  46,ooo
B.  Farm Development
Land Levelling
4.03      32,000 acres of land would be levelled by contractors under the
project at an estimated unit cost of about Rs 750 per acre. Provision is
made for credit to farmers to meet land levelling costs and to contractors
for purchase of the equipment. required, estimated at Rs 4.3 million, see
Annex 5.
4.o4      Prior to levelling, surveys of soils and topography would be
carried out at cost by the UPAU Land Development Division, which would also
design appropriate farm water distribution systems.  Land levelling oper-
ations by contractors would be arranged by TDC, which would coordinate its
seed purchases from growers with farm developuent plans drawn up by the
UPAU Land Development Division and approved by SBI in such a way that, each
year, land levelling was concentrated in blocks to minimize costly movement
of equipment.
Irrigation
4.05      Hydrological data indicate that low lift pumping from streams would
not be possible but that water in the quantities required for the project
could be obtained from the 60 to lOO foot and 200 to 300 foot aquifers (see
Annex 3). These aquifers and others in the Tarai are the probable sources
of water for future irrigation development in the Tarai and south of the
project area in UP.  In order that the most efficient method of future ex-
ploitation of these resources may be determired, GOI undertook during nego-
tiations to commission detailed aquifer investigations by ETO according to
a program acceptable to the Biank.
4.o6      The project would nake provision for construction of tubewells for
26,000 acres to a total capacity of 325 cusecs. Proposed well capacities of
one and two cusecs are 4~ased on farm and field sizes in the area and the



-9-
experience of farmers and local tubewell drilling contractors. Available
contractor capacity would be adequate for the proposed program of well con-
struction covering some 145 wells of one cusec and 90 of two cusecs. Well
construction would be phased over five years.
Electrification of Tubewells
4.07      The area's electric power distribution network is inadequate to
meet project needs for energising additional tubevells and powering seed
processing plants. The UP State Electricity Boara (SEB) has proposed
expansions to its facilities to meet these needs (see Map). The proposed
expansion which would be additional to SEB's planned program of rural
electrification, would include 100 km of new 33 KV transmission lines and
related substations, 96 km of new 11 KV transmission lines and the required
numbers of 400 V distribution lines for connection of tubewells with the
power network. Further details of electrificitioin proposals are given in
Annex 6.
Irrigation Water Distribution
4.08      Wells would be constructed at the highest point of their respective
command areas with distribution mainly by underground pipe systems using
locally produced eighteen and nine inch concrete pipes and risers. This
system has been demonstrated by UPAU to result in reduced maintenance expendi-
ture, reduced land wastage, ease of cultivation operations, improved weed
control and comparable installation costs with open, lined canals. These
works would be carried out by contractors on some 41,000 acres. The balance
of 5,000 acres, having had irrigation facilities installed recently, would
not require new distribution systems.
Farm Mechanization
4.09      Seed production and double cropping require speed in harvesting
and cultivation operations to make maximum use of irrigated land. Labor
supply in the project area is scarce, unreliable and rapidly increasing in
price, particularly during the harvesting season. Farmers in the Tarai are
aware of the value of mechanization and most of them have at least one trac-
tor End basic cultivation equipment. However, tractors and implements are
insufficient in numbers and often old and in poor repair, because of the
shortage of locally manufactured equipment and foreign exchange stringencies,
Therefore, the project includes farm machinery needed for seed production
taking into account likely field operations and cropping patterns, existing
machinery, the serious shortage of spare parts and farm numbers and size
distribution. At full development, farmers would need about 400 additional
tractors of sizes ranging from 35 to 90 horsepower plus ancillary cultivation
and harvesting equipment. Further details are given in Annex 7. The needs
of any particular farmer would be detailed in the individual farm plans
approved by SEI.
4.10      Since many farmers already operate tractors, farmers would select
their own choice of the different makes for which satisfactory service and
spare parts are, or can be made, available; farmers would be free to choose



- 10 -
between imported tractors - there are a numbgr of foreign manufacturers al-
ready represented in the project area - and locally assembled or manufactured
tractors. TDC would then negotiate with suppliers for the best possible
contract for their purchase. Farmers would purchase directly their tipping
trailer requirements from among the several locally manufactured models
available at reasonable prices and with reasonable delivery schedules; such
trailers would not, however, be financed by the proposed Bank loan. All
other items of farm machinery would be purchased in bulk by TDC on behalf of
participating farmers, through international competitive bidding procedures.
Fertilizer
4.11      Optimal fertilizer dressings for seed production from the crops
concerned have been established for the project area, costing between Rs 210
and Rs 220 per acre. Farmers are well aware of the importance of adequate
fertilizer applications to crops grown for seed but are unable to obtain
the amounts they need due tc, the acute national shortage of fertilizer. Even
if assurances could be obtained that adequate supplies would be made avail-
able to seed growers under the project, this could only be at the expense
of farmers in other areas. In order to avoid this situation and to ensure
the availability of adeq,uate supplies of fertilizer, Bank finance would be
provided to import the estimated fertilizer needs of the project over five
years - some US$4 million of foreign exchange. Thereafter, there is a reason-
able chance that estimated f'ertilizer needs in India would be met by local
arrangements.
C. Seed Processing
4.12      Seed processing involves drying, removal of weed seeds and other
foreign material, a degree of grading by size and, frequently, treatment
with a fungicide and/or insecticide liquid or dust. Processing is a vital
part of seed production activities which requires specialized equipment and
skills.
4.13      The projected annual production of approximately 46,000 tons of
clean seed of the three main crops (see para. 2.02) can be processed by the
same machinery, with minor adjustments or additions. Two processing plants
would be provided for the project at an estimated total cost of Rs 22 million.
TDC would purchase, install iand operate these plants which would be sited at
Pantnagar and Kashipur. With nn annual capacity of about 30,000 tons each,
they would draw seed from the eastern and western halves of thle project area
respectively. Additional information on seed processing is in Annex 8.
D. Seed Certification and Quality Control
4.14      All seed produced by farmers and processed under the project would
be certified to be of satisfactory genetic identity and pu-ity in accordance
with standards described in Annex 2. When the Seeds Act came into force in,



- 11 -
September 1968, the UP State Government appointed the National Seeds Corpo-
ration (NSC) as sole certifying agency for the whole of UP. In addition to
official certification, post control testing (see para. 2.07 and Annex 2)
would be carried out by TDC for its own protection against possible risk of
mistakes in the field, or in processing plants and warehouses. Assurances
have been obtained during negotiations that TDC would conduct post control
testing of seed it processed.
E. Cost Estimates
4.15      Project costs including contingencies of the order of 10%, are
estimated to be about Rs 168 million (US$22.4 million). The table on the
following page shows their breakdown by major items; further details are
given in Annex 9.
4.16      Costs of processing plants are based on experience elsewhere and
actual construction costs in the area. Unit costs of land levelling, irri-
gation, farm machinery and surveys are based on experience gained and in-
vestigations carried out by UPAU. Tubewell costs are based on information
from farmers, UPAU and from contractors. Electrification costs are those
estimated by UP SEB, which has much recent experience. Fertilizer costs are
those of UPAU.



- 12 -
SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES-/
Rupees               US$ Equivalent
Local    Foreign         Local    Foreign         Foreign
Currency  Exchange Total Currency  Exchange Total Exchange
------ Rs Millions ----  --------- US $'000 ----  Per Cent
Processing Plants
Buildings              15.6     -      15.6  2,086       -     2,086     -
Installations           2.2    2.9      5.1    294      381      675     56
Consultants             0.2    1.2      1.4     27      160      187     86
Pre-production Costs    0.2     -       0.2     20       -        20     -
Sub-Total:   18.2    4.1     22.3  2,427      541    2,968     18
On Farm
Land Levelling (by
contractors)         19.2    4.8     24.0  2,560      640    3,200     20
Land Levelling (by
farmers)              O.14    -       0.4     532/              53     -
Tubewell construction   3.4    3.82     7.2    448      506-     955      53
Irrigation Distri-
bution System        21.7     -      21.7  2,897       -     2,897     -
Farm Machinery
(exluding trailers)   3.9   39.0     42.9    516    5,200    5,716     91
Farm Machinery
(trailers)            3.1     -       3.1    417       -       417     -
Spare parts for imported
farm machinery         -     9.2      9.2     -     1,227    1,227    100
Surveys                 1.0    0.2      1.1    128       23      151     15
Sub-Total:   52.6   57.0    109.6  7,020    7,596   14,616     52
Electrification         4.1    2.0      6.o    545      261      807     32
Total Invest-
ment Cost:        74.9   63.1    137.9  9,992    8,399   18,391     46
Fertilizer               -    30.0     30.0    -      4,000    4        100
Total Project
Cost:             74.9   93.0    167.9               212, 399  1    55
1/!  Apparent errors due to rounding; all figures include contingencies of
about 10%.
2/   Represents foreign exchange component of equipment already in India.



- 13 -
F. Proposed Financing
4.17      It is proposed that a Bank loan for US$23.0 million be made avail-
able to finance some 50% (US$9.0 million) of the estimated total investment
cost of US$18.4 million and 100% (Us$4.0 million) of the estimated cost of
imported fertilizers (see para. 4.11). The proposted Bank loan would have a
30 year term, with a 10 year grace period and reptayment over the following
20 years; it would bear the Bank's standard interest rate. The borrower
would be GOI. Total project costs would then be met from the following
sources:
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED FINANCING
Million             %
us$     Rs.
Proposed Bank Loan
Investment Items                            9.0      67.5         40
Fertilizer                                  4.0      30.0         18
Sub-total:       13.0      97.5          58
SBI                                              3.0      22.9         14
TDC Investors (see para. 5.03)                   1.7      12.4          7
Farmers (other than as investors in TDC)         3.5      25.9         16
Farm Machinery Importers (spare parts)           1.2       9.2          5
Total:           22.4     167.9         100
Disbursement
4.18      The US$9.0 million to be made available for financing investment
items would be disbursed in two ways. The Bank would disburse 100% of the
cost of consulting services to TDC and of land levelling, farm and seed-
processing machinery other than tipping trailers (see para. 4.10); these dis-
bursements (US$7.6 million) would be against import documentation for imported
items and against full documentatio9 in the event of successful tendering by
local suppliers. The remaining US$1.4 million would be disbursed as 11% of
the loans made by SBI, but this percentage might need to be modified from
time to time as the project progressed; these disbursement requests would be
accompanied by certificates from SBI that the respective loans had been made,
with local documents where applicable.
4.19      The US$4.0 million to be made available for financing fertilizer
imports would be disbursed against import documentation, accompanied by
certificates from TDC that the fertilizer concerned had been, or would be,
distributed to farmers in accordance with contracts made with them for seed
production (see para. 5.01).



- 14 -
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
4.20      The US$9.0 million to be made available for financing investment
items would be lent by GOI to SBI for on-lending to contractors, TDC, SEB
and farmers.  GOI would lend to SBI through the Agricultural Refinance Corpo-
ration (ARC), a statutory organization established in 1963 with the object
of providing medium and long term finance for agriculture. ARC would only
function as a financial channel and would not have a supervisory role. GOI
would on-lend to ARC at 4-3/4%, thus subsidizing the interest rate by 1-3/4%
presuming that the Bank loan bears an interest of 6-1/2%. ARC would on-lend
to SBI at 5%. There would, however, be no subsidy to end-users, who would
pay rates similar to those now prevailing for agricultural investment loans
in India (see para. 5.08). Such terms and conditions would be incorporated
in a subsidiary loan agreement or agreements, whose signature, in a form
satisfactory to the Bank, is to be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
G. Procurement
4.21      Procurement would be in accordance with international competitive
bidding with a local preference of 15% or the current level of import duty
on agricultural machinery, whichever is the less, for:
a)   the supply and installation of seed processing machinery;
b)   agricultural machinery to be purchased in bulk by TDC for
seed growers; and
c)   land levelling machinery for contractors.
International competitive bidding procedures with no local procurement would
be followed for bulk purchase of fertilizer. Other items are not suitable
for international competitive tidding and procedures for their procurement
would be as explained below.
Buildiigs for TDC Processing Facilities
a)   Building contractors would be selected by local tendering, since
the total contract for buildings (US$2 millicn over four years)
would be too small to attract international qompetition, and
adequate local contractors are available.
Land Levelling
b)   Contractors would be selected by local bidding on a unit cost basis,
arranged by TPC (see para. 4.04). However, the successful bidder
would be required to procure any necessary land levelling machinery
in accordance with international competitive bidding procedures
(see above).



- 15 -
Tubewells and Irrigation Distribution Systetns
c)   Seed growers would select local contractors from the adequate
numbers available.
Farm Tractors
d)   TDC would negotiate the best possible prices for procurement of
makes and models of tractors - locally manufactured or imported -
selected by farmers, for which satisfactory service and spare
parts facilities are, or can be made, available.
Farm Trailers
e)   Farmers would purchase trailers directly from among locally
manufactured models (see para. 4.10).
Consultant Services
f)   Consultant services for TDC processing facilities would be
obtained from consultants acceptable to the Bank, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Electrification
g)   SEB would procure materials for construction of power
transmission lines and transformers under its established
local tendering procedures which are satisfactory.
4.22      The Bank would wish to see the bidding documents and the analysis
of bids for all items subjected to international competitive bidding and
also for land levelling; assurances to this effect have been obtained during
negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
5.01      Implementation of project activities would be effected largely by
the Tarai Development Corporation (TDC) in association with the State Bank
of India (SBI) and the UPAU Land Development Division. TDC activities
would include the following:
a)   selection of growers from project participants and
completion of contracts with them for production of raw seed;
b)   acquisition of foundation seed from NSC and distribution
to growers, field inspection of seed crops and provision



of skilled services for supervision of operations such as
roguing off-types 1/ and detasselling 2/ in hybrid maize
fields;
c)   installation, management and operation of processing plants
and related storage facilities for raw seed purchased from
growers and processed seed;
d)   marketing of processed seed;
e)   tendering and purchase of farm machinery items procured in
bulk for project participants and for other bulk purchases
and distribution of inputs e.g. fertilizer;
f)   procurement of short-term finance for its activities;
g)   cooperation with the SBI for collecting repayments of loans
and credits issued under the project against proceeds from
sales of certified seeds.
5.02      There would be an Advisory Committee wlhich would review progress
and provide technical advice and liaison with GOI. Representation on the
Advisory Committee would include GOI, State agencies and Foundations in-
volved in agriculture and seed resezarch, SBI, NSC, project area farmers and
TDC itself. TDC, SBI and UPAU would provide the Advisory Committee with
regular progress reports on their activities under the project. The Ad-
visory Committee, which would be serviced by MFACDC, would report to GOT
on progress of the project. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations
that the Advisory Committee would be constituted in a form satisfactory to
the Bank.
B. Tarai Development Co:7poration
5.03      TDC has been set up as a private corporate body under the Companies
Act 1956. TDC has a share capital of Rs 25 million divided into Rs 20 mil-
lion of equity shares and Rs 5 million of preference shares. Some Rs 10
million of these shares would be called up during the construction period of
the project. Equity shares have been allotted to the various groups interested
in participation in the proportions indicated below:
1/   Removing plants which, although of the same species, are visibly differ-
ent from the main populat;ion.
2/   Detasselling is the operation whereby the male portion of the flower is
removed from the female parent of hybrid maize, in order that all the
seed produced is truly hybrid, that is, pollen frcm the male parent
alone fertilizes the female parent. No self pollination can therefore
take place as would normaLlly be the case.



- 17 -
Percentage of Equity Shareholding Allotted
Project Area farmers                                         30
Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University (UPAU)                 30
National Seeds Corporation (NSC)                             20
Presently unallotted                                         20
Total:             100
None,:of the preference shares are presently allotted. In view of the im-
portance attached to the coordinated marketing of fertilizer and seed, TDC
hopes that commercial fertilizer interests would take up some or all of the
presently unallotted equity shares.  The loan tould not become effeetive
until at least Rs 4 million of share capital has been paid into TDC, i.e.
the first call of 25% on the Rs 16 million of equity shares already allotted.
5.04      TDC would be directed by a Board comprising a Chairman and not
more than 10 other Directors representing proportionately the proposed
shareholding groups. The first ex-officio Chairman of the Board would be
the present Vice-Chancellor of UPAU. The board would appoint a full-time
Managing Director who would have powers to operate TDC's day-to-day business.
He would be assisted by adequate staff to execute the Corporation's activi-
ties explained in para. 5.01. Assuranc4s have been obtained during negoti-
ations that the Bank would be consulted about changes in the position of
the Chairman and appointments to the post of Managing Director, and to the
senior posts charged with financial management and marketing. The loan
would not become effective until TDC has employed, or made arrangements to
employ, adequate staff to enable it to carry out its project obligations.
C. Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University
5.05      In addition to the extension services which are a normal
function of UPAU, in respect of guidance on seed crop cultivation and the
promotion of improved pra,tices by farmers, the University would also pro-
vide a series of specialized services for project participants. The Land
Development Division of UPAU would prepare plans of proposed on-farm activi-
ties, with estimated quantities and costs, in consultation with farmers.
Their plans would form the basis for agreements to be drawn up between
farmers and the contractors responsible for tubewell construction, land
levelling and installation of field irrigation distribution systems. Plans
would also take account of probable TDC contracts for future seed production
and the assessment of SBI's agricultural credit specialists of each farmer's
financial situation. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that
UPAU would expand its Land Development Division to meet these needs.



D. Contractors
5.o6      On-farm development would be carried out largely by contractors,
acceptable to SBI, who would be responsible for land levelling, for con-
struction of tubewells, and for installation of irrigation distribution
systems. Existing local expertise and equipment is adequate for construction
of the one and two cusec tubewells proposed. Land levelling would be a new
activity for contractors in the area and probably they would gain initial
experience on the UPAU farm under the guidance of the University Land De-
velopment Division. Installation of irrigation distribution systems would
be carried out by local contractors working under the guidance of farmers
themselves who would be in possession of proposed field layout plans.
E. Consultants
5.07      TDC would engage consultants to carry out investigations and
submit detailed recommendations for siting, layout and design of the pro-
posed seed processing plants. Equipment would be installed under the
supervision of the consultants who would also supervise building of the
plants. Suppliers would provide staff to train TDC's operators of their
machinery on the job for the first processing season.
F. Credit
5.08      Credit would be made available to land levelling contractors,
TDC, S'£B and farmers by the State Bank of India (SB:), in accordance with
policies and procedures described in Annex 10. Interest rates and financial
charges are linked to SBI Advance Rate, which is currently 7% per annum.
Loans to contractors for the -Durchase of land levelling equipment anc. to
farmers for the purchase of farm machinery would come under the SBI's
"Installment Credit Loan" scheme.  Installment Credit Loans have terms of up
to five years (with a grace period of a few months only), normally cover up
to 75% of the cost of the equipment and bear financial charges equivalent to
approximately 2% above SBI Advance Rate. Loans to TDC for constructing and
equipping pro2essing plants and to farmers for land levelling and irrigation
would come under the SBI's "Medium Term Loan" scheme. Medium Term Loans
have terms of up to 10 years with a grace period of one to two years (and
exceptionally three years), cover up to 80% of the cost of development and
carry interest at a rate approjimately 11½% above SBI Advance Rate. (Medium
Term Loans are limited to 50% of the security offered.) To finance the SEB
investments under the project, the SBI would subscribe to debentures issued
by SEB in amounts equal to the cost of those investments.  This is the usual
way SEB borrows, the debentures being guaranteed by the UP State Government,
currently yielding 6¼% and be:ing repayable after 10 years. Working capital
advances by SBI would be ma,de available to farmers for purchase of fertil-
izer and also to TDC until it has built up its working capital reserve; such



- 19 -
advances currently carry interest at a rate approximately 1'½% above SBI
Advance Rate.
5.09      The SBI is a "scheduled" (i.e. major commercial) bank, established
by Act of Parliament in 1955 and is 92% owned by GOI through the Reserve
Bank of India (RBI). As at December 31, 1967 the SBI had paid-up capital
of some Rs 56 million (US$7.5 million), and deposits of some Rs 9.6 billion
(US$1.3 billion). SBI is required by law to act in the public interest and
to be guided by directions of GOI, but it is emphasized that in discharging
its functions the management should act on business principles. Its finan-
cial situation is satisfactory and its record of service to the agricultural
sector is good. Further details about SBI and the Indian banking system
are given in Annex 11.
5.10      Within the project area SBI currently has 13 branches and agencies
and intends to open four more shortly. Loan applications from farmers would
be forwarded from these branches to the Pantnagar branch to which four UPAU
agricultural technicians and economists, including a senior professor, have
been seconded for an initial period of one year because agricultural lending
of this type is new to SBI and it has as yet no suitable staff of its own.
This unit would appraise the technical aspects of loan applications. As-
surances have been obtained during negotiations that SBI would continue to
employ, and UPAU - if required - would continue to provide, such a unit satis-
factory to the Bank for the technical appraisal of loan applications. The
loan would not become effective until SBI had provided this technical unit
with initial staff satisfactory to the Bank.
5.11      At present, all decisions on agricultural loans are taken by the
local head office of SBI at Kanpur, some 150 miles from the project area.
While this might be satisfactory at the present low rate of agricultural
lending, assurances have been obtained during negotiations that decisions
on project loans would be taken without delay within the Project area.
G. Accounts and Audit
5.12      Under the SBI Act the accounts of the SBI are audited annually by
two auditors duly qualified under the Companies Act 1956 who are appointed
by RBI in consultation with GOI.   The auditors currently appointed are
Messrs. S. B. Billimoria and Company and Messrs. Ray and Ray. Each of the
auditors takes a certain number of SBI local head offices' accounts and
they jointly audit the accounts of the central head office. In regard to
the Local Head Office at Kanpur - within whose jurisdiction the project
lies - the auditors rely on returns submitted and certified by the Secretary-
Treasurer of that head office (as is the case for several other local head
offices), but the overall audit certificate usually carries the statement
that these returns have been found satisfactory for the purpose of the audit.
Since the loans under the project represent such a small part of SBI activi-
ties, the above arrangements for the general audit of SBI are satisfactory.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations, however, that clearly



- 20 -
identifiable accounts would be kept of project loans and borrowings under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement (see para. 4.20), that these would be audited semi-
annually by auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and that a certified copy of
a summary of these accounts would be forwarded to the Bank within three months
of the close of the accounting period to which they refer. The certification
would contain a statement that, to the best of the auditors' knowledge, all
loans and borrowings included in the summary had been made to borrowers for
the purposes of the project.
5.13      TDC's accounts would be audited annually under the provisions of
the Companies Act 1956. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations
that auditors satisfactory to the Bank would be employed and that audited
financial statements together with the auditor's report. would be made avail-
able to the Bank immediately on preparation and in any case within three
months of the close of the financial year.
VI.  SEED PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND FARMERS' BENEFITS
A. Yields, Area and Production of Seed Crops
6.01      Yields, cropped area and production of clean seed by the project
would be as follows at full development:
Yields, Area and Seed Production at Full Development
Yield per    Seed Crop        Annual
Acre 1/        Area         Production
tons         acres           tons
Hybrid Maize, Jowar and Bajra:       0.8         19,000          15,200
Rice                                 1.45         5,000           7,250
Wheat                        :       1.45        16,ooo          23,200
Total    :                    °,°            45,650
1/   Mission estimates based on information supplied by UPAU and GOI.
The project production would service a total of about seven million acres of
foodgrains annually.



- 21 -
B. Prices and Marketing
6.02      TDC would take over the market for seeds established by UPAU.  It
would seek to enlarge channels of trade beyond the State agencies (which
currently handle most of the seeds trade) to accredited dealers in other
agricultural inputs such as fertilizers and insecticides. Assistance in
these developmehts would be provided by NSC, which is expected to become
increasingly involved with seeds sales promotion generally, and by commercial
fertilizer interests who already operate networks of fertilizer dealers in
various parts of India.
6..03     TDC would contract with growers to produce seed under terms and
c:nditions mutually acceptable and covering both technical and financial
aspects. For example, TDC would provide foundation seed at commercial seed
prices, on credit against delivery of raw seed to processing plants and would
also provide detasselling and inspection services at no direct cost - to
safeguard its interest and to relieve farmers of these responsibilities.
In order to provide them with a reasonable incentive, TDC would undertake
to pay growers on acceptance of raw seeds, a first payment equivalent to the
market price holding at harvest time for the crop in question plus 10% of
that price. Disbursement of a second payment on each lot of raw seed
purchased and found acceptable would be made as auLthorized by TDC Board of
Directors, dependent on TDC performance during each fiscal year and on the
basis of an analysis of individual crop costs and returns. Proposed pur-
chasing arrangements would be preferable to present UPAU practices whereby
farmers do not receive cash for their produce for up to four months from
delivery to processing plants.
6.o4      There is no regular system of control of seed prices in India so,
for the purposes of calculation of financial returns, sale prices of pro-
cessed seed have been assumed to be at the level currently paid by the UP
State Government to UPAU as follows:
Rice seed:               Rs 130 per quintal
Hybrid Maize seed:       Rs 220 per quintal
Wheat seed:              Rs 135 per quintal
While it is possible that these prices could be increased in the short term,
as the seeds business becomes more competitive and as TDC spreads its sales
to less progressive or more discerning customers, a drop of price for
processed seed could be expected. Account of probable increased expenditure
by TDC on sales in addition to a possible reduction in selling price to
farmers has been taken by assuming a price drop for processed seed of Rs 10
per quintal after five years, followed by a further and equal drop five years
later.



- 22 -
C. TDC Operating Results
6.05      The cash-flow proJection for TOC is given at Annex 12.    It will
be seen that, on the basis of the seed prices forecast in para. 6.04 and on
the assumption that only the first payment is made to farmers as explained
in para. 6.03, TDC should start to make an operating profit in its initial
production vear, 1969/70. It is estimated that the financial return on
capital employed (including working capital) would be 25% over a 15-year
production period.
6.o6      Second payments to farmers for their certified seed are not taken
into account in the cash-flow since no formula for this can be decided upon
pending constitution of the TDC Board. Such payments would, of course,
directly reduce profits available for distribution as dividends or for re-
investment, and might therefore cause some friction between members of
the Board representing the various shareholding interests. Moreover, in
view of the likelihood of increased competition in the seed industry (see
parn. 6.o4), it would be advisable for TDC to adopt a conservative financial
policy in its early years of operation while seed prices can be expected to
hold up, particularly in regard to the accelerated depreciation of property
assets. Assurances have therefore been obtained during negotiations that
the Bank would be consulted about proposed second payments to farmers and
about proposed distribution of net income, after taxes and debt service.
The cash-flow projection at Annex 12 assumes that any investment required
after 1969/7C would be financed from such net income and that a working
capital reserve would be built up Tairly rapidly.
D. Farmerst Operating Results
6.o7      A cash-flow projection for a 100-acre portion of a farm developed
for seed production is given at Annex 13. This assumes that maximum use is
made of SBI credit facilities, and that TDC does not make any second pay-
ment for certified seed (see para. 6.03). The projection shows that the
total investment in developing and equipping the 100-acres is of the order
of Rs 240,000 (US$32,000), and that the financial rate of return on this
investment is about 16%/ over 15 years. It is estim4ted that income from
the 100 acres could be some Rs 85,000 (US$11,000) without the project.
This could be expected to drop to some Rs 18,500 (US$2,500) in the initial
year of heavy investment but w.th a rapid recovery to over s .100,000
(US$13,000). After debt service commitments have been fully met, income
would be about Rs 145,000 (US$19,000).
6.08      These results are satisfactory, particularly when it is considered
that farmers would normally have income from other portions of their hold-
ings during the period of heavy investment for seed production, and that
the chances of second payments from 'I'DC are good, at least in early years.



- 23 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The principal benefit arising from the project is the provision
of sufficient seed of high yielding varieties to service the acreages
mentioned in para. 6.01. It is theoretically possible to estimate the
economic value of the seed produced under the project - at least during the
period in which such seed will be in short supply - by consideration of the
increased net production from these acreages. Such a calculation would be
practically impossible however, because of the great variation in agricul-
tural cohditions under which the seed would be grown. For the purposes of
assessing the economic return on the proposed investment, therefore, the
value of the seed has been taken as the TDC sales prices predicted in
para. 6.o4. This is probably a marked under-estimation, particularly in the
early years of the project when few alternative seed supplies are available.
On the other hand, high yielding varieties of foodgrains require a high
level of inputs, particularly fertilizer, if their potential is to be fully
realized and there is little doubt that many end-users will be unable to
enjoy the full benefits of their seeds because of the overall shortage of
fertilizer and institutional credit in India.
7.02      The rate of return to the economy on the proposed investment in
the project is estimated to be about 17% discounted over the effective
(15 year) life of the project; the calculation is shown at Annex 14. In
comparing production benefits and costs with and without the project it
has been assumed that farmers are currently making fullest use of high
yielding variety seeds for commercial production. In this way the benefits
attributable to the project that are counted in the calculation are re-
stricted to those arising directly from investments under the project, namely:
a)   increased yields due to land levelling and the provision
of irrigation;
b)   increased value of seed over commercial production made
possible by the provision of processing facilities; and
c)   reduced direct farm operating costs due to mechanization.
Insofar as farmers are not able at present to make full use of high yielding
varieties for commercial production because such seeds are not available to
them, the benefits due to the project have been underestimated.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The project as planned is well conceived, technically, financially
and economically sound and suitable for a Bank loan of US$13.0 million.
8.02      During negotiations assurances have been obtained, inter alia,
that:



- 24 -
a)   TDC would consult the Bank about changes in the position of
the Chairman and appointments to senior management posts, see
para. 5.04;
b)   SBI would continue to employ and UPAU would - if required -
continue to provide a farm appraisal unit for the technical
appraisal of project loan applications, see para. 5.10;
c)   SBI would keep clearly identifiable accounts of project loans
and borrowings under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, to be
audited semiannually by auditors satisfactory to the Bank, and
a certified copy of a sunmary of these accounts would be for-
warded to the Bank within three months of the close of the
accounting period to which they refer, see para. 5.12;
d)   TDC would consult the Bank about proposed second payments to
farmers and proposed distribution of net income, see para. 6.06.
8.03      The loan would not become effective until, inter alia:
a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or Agreements between GOI, ARC
and SBI, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, had been signed,
see para. 4.20;
b)   Rs 4 million of TDC share capital had been paid into TDC, see
para. 5.03;
c)   TDC had employed, or made arrangements to employ, adequate
staff to enable it to carry out its project obligations, see
para. 5.04;
d)   SBI shall have provided its technical unit with initial staff
satisfactory to the Bank, see para. 5.10; and
e)   GOI had obtained and submitted to the Bank undertakings from
UPAU and SEB, satisfactory to the Bank, that UPAU and SEB would
undertake their project obligations.
May 23, 1969



ANNEX 1
Page 1.
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
HIGH YIEIDING VARIETIES PROGRAM
1.        The importance of adequate supplies of good quality seeds of high
yielding varieties of Indian food grains was underlined by GOI in its policy
statement on the New Agricultural Strategy issued in August 1965. Part of
this strategy was the nation-wide High Yielding Variety Program (HVP),
launched in 1966 under which the high yielding seed varieties are channelled,
as a matter of priority, to areas of assured water supply, together with
complementary inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides and extension advice.
2.        The high yielding varieties of foodgrains under the program
comprise the hybrids of maize, jowar (sorghum), and bajra (pearl millet);
the Mexican varieties of short strawed wheat, and the new paddy varieties
originating mainly from Taiwan. These new varieties, officially released
in India by the Central Varieties Release Committee over the last three
years, are to be kept distinct from the scores of the older so caUed
"improved varieties", developed by research stations in India from local
strains. In their specific areas of adaptation, the response of recently
released hybrids and other high yielding varieties to fertilizers, pesticides,
and improved water management and cultural practices is far superior -
70 to 150% - to that of the "improved varieties" based only on local
germ plasm. 1/ Furthermore, some of the new varieties, particularly of
paddy and jowar, are of short duration, and therefore, often make it possible
for the farmer to plant an additional crop on the same land, a practice
often impossible wrth the transitional long duration varieties.
3.        Hybrid seeds of maize, jowar and bajra must be replaced with
every new crop. On the other hand, the new high yielding paddy and wheat
seeds can last for several years, depending on the care taken by farmers
in preserving them for the next crop. It is generally assumed that, under
Indian conditions, in order to keep their yield potential, the new wheat
and paddy seeds should be replaced by the cultivator every four years on
the average.
4.        Continuous intensive development of new varieties is required,
in India, as elsewhere, for three basic reasons: firstly, it is advisable
to continue introducing new seed varieties in the market, in order to
forestall the hazards of possibly emerging pests and diseases. Secondly,
it is necessary and possible to improve on present varieties, in terms of
their market acceptability and nutritional value. Thirdly, it is also
necessary to improve the yield potential of new varieties for different
ecological conditions. The new varieties developed in India so far, par-
ticularly in the case of hybrids, are adapted only to part of the total
1/ This is so, however, only under conditions of assured irrigation and
land drainage.






ANNEX I
Page 2
area suitable for cultivation of their respective crops. Continuous research
to increase the number, and to improve the quality, of new crop varieties is
therefore essential for long term success in Indian agriculture.
5.        Mexican type dwarf wheat varieties were first introduced in India
in 1963.  "Sonora 64" and "Lerma Rojo" have proved the most successful among
them, and were released for general cultivation in 1965. In 1967 the
adapted varieties "Sharbati Sonora", and "Kalyan Sona 227", were released
with greater success., since they combine the yielding potential of the
Mexican varieties with the grain characteristics (colour and softness)
readily acceptable on the local market. Several other selections are being
tested and are likely to be released shortly.
6.        Three dwarf paddy varieties developed in Taiwan were released in
1965, "Taichun Native-i", "Taichun-65", and "Tainan-3". A new short dura-
tion variety, "ADT-27", obtained from a japonica-indica cross, was released
on a large scale in Madras State in 1967. In December 1966, a fifth variety,
"IR-8", from the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in Manila, was
also released. In view of their adaptability to various environments,
Taichun Native-i and IR-8 are being distributed all over India, while
Taichun-65, Tainan-3 and ADT 27 are being distributed mostly in Mysore,
Kerala and Madras states respectively. Testing and breeding programs are
also under way with other varieties developed by IRRI.
7.        In the field of jowar varieties, only two hybrids have been
released, CHS-1 in 1965, and CHS-2 in 1966, with good results in areas of
adaptation, particularly in Maharashtra. Also in the case of bajra, only
two hybrid varieties have been released, HB-1 in 1965, and HB-2 in 1967.
BB-2 is not properly adapted to South Indian ecological conditions, and
only HB-1 is readily accepted there.
8.        The maize research program was started first and has progressed
further than for any other hybrid. Several hybrid varieties of maize have
already been released. The most popular ones are "Ganga 3"t and Ganga 2"
in Norther India, "Ranjit" in Central India and Rajasthan, and "Deccan" in
the South. Several other bybrid varieties are being intensively tested and
are expected to be released soon.
9.        Research for new variety development, particularly in hybrids,
has been assisted in India by the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations and is
coordinated by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), which
is in charge of the All India Coordinated Breeding Program and controls the
major portion of its financing. The Indian Agricultural Research Institute
(IARI), has been the most successful and enterprising among the various
institutes conducting research. A number of agricultural universities have
also joined in the research program, amongst which the Uttar Pradesh Agri-
cultural University (UPAU) and Ludhiana (Punjab) deserve special nention.
Because of the activities of UPAU, suitable varieties exist and further im-
proved strains are being developed to meet the needs of the project's mnajor
markets. This situation contrasts wfith other areas of India where numbers
of varieties available or in the pipeline may be too few for the differing
soil, climate and disease conditions encountered.






ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       Until now, no plant breeding research has been done in India by
private enterprise. The reasons for this are partly to be found in the
lack of a policy of encouragement by the Government (and especially ICAR)
towards private breeding programs, and partly in the technical complexity
of the work. It is only very recently, and after developing the required
know-how, that serious interest is being shown by private enterprise in
entering the field of seed multiplication, processing and marketing.
11.       Demand for new seeds by Indian farmers has been growing extremely
rapidly during the last two years and so has supply, though at a somewhat
lower rate. Unfortunately, 14ttle statistical evidence of this development
is available or properly analysed. No demand studies for inAIvidual varie-
ties in specific areas of the country have been made. Available detailed
figures relate mostly to targets of seed distribution; data on achievements
refer mainly to assumed "coverage", rather than sales or production results.
12.       Total estimated output of hybrid maize, jowar and bajra seeds
during 1967/68 was 8,900, 7,500 and 2,100 tons respectively. The total
area sown for the production of hybrid seeds has increased, according to
GOI, from 2,000 acres in 1964/65 to an estimated 81,300 acres in 1968/69.
13.       The HVP target for the rabi (dry) and Kharif (rainy) seasans of
1967/68 was intended to cover a little more than 16 million acres, with
estimated actual coverage at about 15 million acres. The target for HVP
in 1968/69 has been set at 21 million acres.
14.       The 1970/71 target of the HVP calls for 32.5 million acres to be
farmed with high yielding seed varieties. In terms of seeds inputs, the
quantities required would be of the order of 173,500 tons of processed
seeds, of which about 56,000 tons would be hybrids.  Assuming only a modest
improvement over the present level of average yields per acre of processed
seeds this would require about 240,000 acres for seed production between
rabi 1969 and kharif 1970, of which nearly 150,000 would be under hybrids.
The following table illustrates how these figures have been derived:






ANNEX 1
Page 4
Target                                   Average
1970/71                     Seed         yield of      Acreage of
(million    Seed rate    requirement    seed farms     seed farms
acres)     (Kg/acre)     (tons) 1/      (Qtls/acre)    required
Paddy          12.5         12           37,500           14          27,000
Wheat           8.0         40            80,000           13         62,000
Maize            4.0          7           28,000            7         140,000
Sorghum         4.0          5            20,000            3         67,00O
Millet           4.0          2            8,000            2         40,000
32.5                     173,500                      236,000
15.        The HVP provides a broad basis for the rapid development of the
overall seeds industry in India. The rate of this development will depend
on the continuation of the present agricultural policy of GOI and the degree
of its implementation. Adequate supplies of fertilizers and pesticides, and
therefore, over the next few years at least, liberal imports of them, are
necessary conditions for successfully spreading the use of the new seeds in
the country. Furthermore, larger facilities and better service from agri-
cultural credit institutions, and a sustained continuation of the present
efforts to increase water availability, and promote its rational utilization,
are just as much required as additional availabilities of physical inputs.
16.        The cost of seeds compared with other inputs is a minor portion
of farming costs. The marginal farming cost involved in switching over from
traditional, or "improved", seeds to the new ones, in areas of assured irri-
gation and good drainage, is a small fraction of the increase in output
thereby made possible. This fact explains the readiness of most progressive
Indian farmers to purchase high yielding seeds of good quality almost at any
price. Given adequate credit arrangements, the level of prices of new seeds
should not be a constraint on demand, and seed pricing policy could well be
based on the principle of "what the traffic can bear". The real demand
constraints are quality rather than price, and proper extension work to
demonstrate to an increasingly larger number of farmers the overwhelming
advantages of the new technology.
1/ Assuming seed changeover every four years for wheat and paddy; every
year for all hybrids.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
Development of the Indian Seed Industry
Introduction
1.        The High Yielding Varieties Program (HVP) in India is de-
pendent for its continued successful implementation on organized multi-
plication of improved varieties produced by plant breeders such that
genetic purity is maintained and seeds planted by farmers are viable and
reasonably free from adulteration. These conditions presuppose careful
coordination of action between the various organizations in the chain
between the plant breeder and the farmer and the establishment of
standards of purity of seed in order that the farmer may know the precise
nature of the planting material he proposes to purchase. The steps taken
by GOI to achieve these ends are outlined below.
The National Seed Corporation (NSC)
2.        NSC is the organization charged by GOI with responsibility for
initiation and coordination of most of the components of the developing
seeds industry.  Although established wJithin the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture, Community Development and Cooperatives, it has a high degree
of autonomy.  Its responsibilities include:-
i)  maintenance of stocks of breeder seeds developed at
research centers in India or imported;
ii) multiplication of foundation seed from breeder seed
stocks;
iii) inspection and certification of seed crops produced
from foundation seed;
iv) organization and operation of training programs in
seed testing and certification;
v) procuring, testing and leasing seed processing equipment;
vi) investment on its own or in association with public or
private agencies in enterprises related to the seed
industry.
3.            NSC has a corporate structure with its ow,n Board of
Directors. Its financial resources derive from share capital contri-
butions by GOI, unsecured medium-term loans advanced by GOI and profits
frcm operations. By the end of the financial year 1967/68, NSC had
received Rs 12.0 million of share capital and Rs 12.6 million as a loan
from GOI. NSC's turnover for the year ended May 31, 1967 was Rs 18.3
million with profits of Rs 1.3 million.






ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        NSC has prime responsibility for the production of founda-
tion seed, see para. 10. This function is met partially on the
Corporation's two farms and partially by selected contract growers
who return the foundation seed to NSC for subsequent distribution
throughout India. The acreage devoted to foundation seed production,
mainly for hybrid maize, hybrid jowar and hybrid bajra has increased
from some 270 acres in 1964/65 te 4,400 acres in 1967/68.
5.        NSC has also, perforce, become engaged in production of
certified seed (see para. 10) in the absence of alternative competent
organizations in this field. In 1967/68 it awarded contracts and
supervised production of certified seed of hybrid maize, jowar
(sorghum) and bajra (pearl millet) from some 71,600 acres. However,
there is no intention that NSC should continue indefinitely to be
responsible for production of certified seed. GOI has already ruled
that the individual States must make their own arrangements, with
NSC only helping out in the event of shortfalls when special produc-
tion programs of certified seeds would be mounted against specific
demands.
6.        Until 1967, NSC was the sole agency responsible for seed
certification; but with enforcement of the Seeds Act, certification
has become the sole responsibility of State Governments. In fact,
the UP State Government has decided to appoint NSC as sole certifying
agency for the State.
7.        In the absence of other competent agencies, NSC undertakes
the processing of seed grown on contract to provide end users with
certified clean, weed free, uniformly sized seed for planting. The
Corporation has seed processing plants in Andhra Pradesh, Mysore, Maharashtraj
Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi and plans to establish more plants
in Rajasthan, Punjab, UP and Madhya Pradesh. NSC also plays an
active role in encouraging the local manufacture and use of seed
processing equipment.
8.        NSC has organized a series of training courses covering the
various aspects of the seed industry every year since 1965/66. Courses
have been run with assistance from the Rockefeiler Foundation and
USAID.  They have served to prepare the personnel of State Governments
and private sector agencies for the uptake of increased responsibilities
in the industry.
9.        NSCts commercial activities, in the form of investment in
the equity of State Seed Corporations or other ventures approved by
GOI, can be expected to intensify in the next few years. Partici-
pation in TDC to the extent of a 20% equity holding plus Board
presentation has already been agreed and could well be the forerunner
of similar ventures. In this way, the Corporation's experience and
capital could be employed to good purpose within the industry.






ANINEX 2
Page 3
Seed Certification and Purity Measures
10.       Development of new varieties of seed in India involves passage
through the stages defined as follows:
"Breeder Seed" - produced in small quantities as a result of breeding
and/or selection programs on research stations. This material
is controlled directly by the plant breeder and may, if a
selection shows promise, be tested at a variety of sites under
the aegis of the Indian Council for Agricultural Research
(ICAR). Evaluation of performance by the Central Varieties
Release Committee of GOI would, if favorable, lead to release
for multiplication to:
"Foundation Seed" - which is derived directly, in one generation, from
breeder seed. It is grown, normally by NSC, agricultural
universities like UPAU, or other competent organizations with
the greatest care, involving optimal cultural techniques and
rigorous roguing of off-types so as to produce healthy,
viable seed which maintains as nearly as possible the genetic
identity and purity of the parent material. Foundation seed
of a specific variety having been processed, tested and found
to satisfy the standards prescribed by GOI for that variety
is then used to produce:
"Certified Seed" - which is directly derived from foundation seed and
is so handled (by field inspection and roguing of off-types)
as to maintain satisfactory genetic identity and purity in
accordance with the standards established by the seed
certifying agency created under the authority of the 1966
Seeds Act. Certified seed is distributed to farmers for
commercial cultivation.
11.       Final definition of standards for seeds awaits publication
and promulgation of the regulations prepared by GOI for enforcement
of the Seeds Act. Pending this action, however, NSC has established
its own standards, more or less based on the International Certifi-
cation Standards. Minimum germination and purity standards established
for certified seed of the three main foodgrains to be produced under
the project are summarized below. These may be amended in the Seeds
Act regulations and in any event, TDC would set standards somewhat
above these minima, in the interests of establishment of a reputation
for high quality seed. Such a reputation would not necessitate signi-
ficant increases in processing costs and would stand TDC in good stead
when market conditions change, as may be expected, towards greater
selectivity by end users.






AlnNa 2
Page 4
Germination and Purity Standards for Certified Seed
Factor                      1Hybrid Maize         lWeat           Paddy
Pure Seed - minimum            98.8%               98.0%          98.0%
Other Crop Seed - maximum_/     0.2%           20 seeds per   2 seeds per
500 gram 1/     40 gram
Weed Seed - maximum             Nil           100 seeds per   8 seeds per
500 gram        40 gram
Objectionable Wleed Seed        Nil          NIot defined     2 seeds per
40 gram
Inert M4atter - maximum         1.0%                2.0%           2.0%
Germination Capacity - minimum 90.0%               85.o%          85.0% 2/
Moisture Content - maximum     12.0%O         Not specified       14.0%
1/  Includes recognizable seed of other varieties.   Certified wheat seed
may have up to 10 seeds per 500 gram of other recognizable wheat
varieties plus 10 seeds per 500 gram of other crops.
2/  This standard applies to late varieties.   Early varieties having
minimum germination capacity of 80% may be certified.
Post Control Testing
12.       The major weakness in the draft regulations for implementation of
the 1966 Seeds Act is the apparent absence of means of control of maintenance
of varietal purity of certified seed stocks in the event of fraudulent or
accidental admixture of seed of varieties which may be physically
indistinguishable Lrom the variety in question.   Varietal purity could be
protected by the system of post control com^monly applied in countries having
well developed seeds industries.   Post control field testing would involve
the planting of a very small sample of seed taken at delivery to the
processing plant during normal sampling for certification.   The sample planted
would be compared against a check plot of the variety in question for
trueness to type.   If the seed is not wihat it purports to be, the seed
grower responsible can be disciplined and, because India has sufficient
variation in climate between different areas, it should be possible to
obtain confirmation of varietal purity by post control tests before main
season planting of the crops in question, thus protecting end users from
possibly inferior seed.
13.       Post control testing on random samples of growers' seed purchased
by TDC ilould be carried out as a standard routine measure by TDC in
conjunction with the State Seed Certification Agency and/or UPAU.   The
former organization would be responsible for sampling, testing and certify-
ing seed offered for sale by TDC after processing, in accordance with the
provisions of the Seeds Act and its regulations.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS FROJECT
Soils and Water Resources
in the Project Area
A. Soils
Studies
1.          Detailed soil studies in the proposed project area are
available for some 1,000 acres on the UPAU Experiment Station and
Dairy Farm at Pantnagar in Nainital District (see map), but the
results of the studies can be applied generally to the project area.
General Nature of the Soils
2.          Previous to clearing in the late 19lhO's, the Tarai was a
swampy area of mixed forest and grass vegetation, about 730 feet above
mean sea level and approximately 15 miles scuth of the southern
boundary of the Siwalik (outer) ranges of the Himalayan mountains on
a gentle south-sloping outwash plain.
3.          Soils are derived from calcareous outwash from the mountains,
probably deposited in middle to late Pleistocene times. The predominant
soil is dark colored, naturally imperfectly drained, normally three and
a half to five feet thick over loamy to sandy sediments. Natural drain-
age characteristics indicate that the water table fluctuates within
the profile. During the monsoon the profile is subjected to a high
water table, which gradually recedes during the dry season.   Permeabil-
ity is estimated to be moderate, and available moisture-holding capacity
high. There is little erosion because of the level to gently sloping
topography. Runoff may occasionally cause some surface soil loss in
areas adjacent to ridges of better drained soils.
Fertility Status of Soils
4.          Analysis made on a large number of soil samples from the
Tarai area indicate that the surface soils have the following properties:
pH                        6.2 to 8.2
organic matter            1.4 to 2.8%
Average potassium         125 to 300 lb K20/ac
(medium to high)
Average phosphorus         10 to 120 lb P205/ac
(very low to high)






ANlEX 3
Page 2
The available potassium levels should be sufficient to raise a normal
crop, except where surface soils are strongly calcareous and
exchangeable calcium and magnesium may dominate the exchange complex.
Response to potash fertilizer applications may be therefore quite
variable. Response to phosphorus fertilizers will also vary depending
on the calcium carbonate content of the soils, which will convert
phosphates to weakly soluble forms. Njitrogen contents appear to be
insufficient for obtaining maximum yields.
5.         Due to the presence of sufficient organic matter the soils
are moderately active throughout and are dynamic in nutrient trans-
formation. With an adequate fertilization schedule including the
major plant nutrients, highest yields can be expected.  Possible
trace element deficiencies would need close observation on calcareous
and poorly drained soils.
Soil Management Considerations
Land Levelling
6.         Land levelling procedures for irrigation should be care-
fully planned and should take into account the physical and chemical
properties of the soils. Cutting normally removes the organically
enriched surface or A horizons from high areas, exposing the less
desirable soil horizons as surface layers. Filling low areas with
surface horizon from higher areas may not always be detrimental, but
there is danger of burying the productive A horizon with less
desirable soil material. A horizons in the project area range in
thickness from a minimum of 10 inches to a maximum of about 18 inches.
7.         The natural slope on farm fields in the proposed project
area is generally slight and land levelling would mainly require
comparatively shallow and superficial cutting and filling. However,
UPAU land Development Division staff would have to exercise close
supervision over the work of the contractors' land levelling
operations to ensure minimum disturbance to soil horizons.
Cultural Practices
8.         There are some indications of a reduction in organic matter
supply following clearing and cultivation. Although conclusive data
are not yet available, it appears that the soils cultivated since the
late 1940's have a noticeably lower organic matter content than
similar soils in adjacent forest areas.  Incorporating all available
organic material would not only help to maintain the nitrogen-supplying
power of these soils, but would also help to maintain good physical
condition in the plow layer.






ANIhTEX 3
Page 3
9.         Attention is also called to the development of a thin pan
layer between depths of about 7 and 11 inches in some cultivated soils.
Its resistance to water and root penetration depends on its moisture
content. The pan is not noticeable when moist, but it becomes very
hard and brittle upon drying. It forms just below the plow depth and
seems to have less pare space or higher bulk density than the plow layer
or the soil below the pan. It is not noticeable in uncultivated areas.
In addition to the incorporation of all available organic material, the
depth of plowing should be varied periodically to help break up the pan
and hinder its formation.
B. Water Resources
Topography
10.        The Tarai is flat and gently sloping with a gradient of
the order of half to one percent falling fron north to south. It
varies in width from 5 to 15 miles and lies parallel to the Siwalik
Mountain Range stretching over a distance of 1,5C0 miles with general
contours parallel to the foothills. Streams formed by local drainage
and those originating in the foothills have courses perpendicular to
the general contour. These streams have eroded beds in the Tarai
formation to a varying degree depending on the discharge and up to a
maximum depth of 20 feet and width of 300 feet. The average bed width
of the local drainage streams ranges from 6 feet to 20 feet. The
distance between streams varies from 1,000 feet to 1 mile. Between
the drainage courses, elevated ridges occur up to a height of 5 feet
above the banks of the streams.
Climate
11.        The area has a continental type climate, with normally
43 inches out of the average annual rainfall of 58 inches during the
monsoon period, July to mid-September. The fluctuation from year to
year is within the range of 35 - 75 inches. kWinds sometimes blow for
prolonged periods during the Rabi (dry) season. Temperature data
(1955/64) showr that the temperatures during December can drop to below
freezing point. Hlowever, frosts at those times are localized and
cause damage only to sensitive crops such as the sub-tropic mango. Low
temperatures offer no problems to the crops proposed for the project.
Hydro-geology
12.        The Geological Survey of India (GSI) carried out a regional
hydro-geological inventory in the area during the field seasons
1959/60 and 1960/61. The following are conclusions drawn from this
survey and the preliminary investigations carried out from 1959/62 by
ETO.






ANNEX 3
Page 4
Geology
13.       The 'Bhabar' zone is geographically a steeply sloping narrow,
dry belt made up of a sediment brought down by the rivers emerging from
the lower Himalayan ranges. The width of the belt varies from 5 to 15
miles. Towards the south the Bhabar belt gradually merges into the
flatter alluvial deposits known as the 'Tarai'. (In the local language
l?Bhabar"l means dry, and "Tarai" means wet.) The Bhabar was formed
recently by the integrated piedmont of alluvial fan deposits along the
foothills consisting of unconsolidated sand-boulder and clay-boulder beds.
14.       The Tarai formation, also of recent formation, consists of clays,
sandy clays, sands and occasional gravels built up and deposited in a
number of strata overlying the subsurface continuation of the Siwalik
Hills formation. The top layer of the Tarai has an average depth of
50 feet of medium fine to fine texture. The second layer (50 feet)
consists of fine sand and clay, beneath which lie alternating layers of
coarse material and finer material of a varying thickness. The layers
with coarse texture are the potential "confined"' water bearing strata;
probably all are hydrologically interconnected and receive water from
precipitation on the Bhabar and the Siwalik Mountain range. It is
difficult to define the southern boundary of the Tarai formation as it
merges gradually with the Gangetic alluvium, which forms the plain of
Uttar Pradesh. The northern boundary of the Tarai coincides with a
series of springs or a line of seepage which flow at the end of the
rainy season.
Underground Water
15.       Data collected systematically by ETO from 1959 through 1962
from boreholes and hydrological tests in the area indicate the following:
(i) The aquifer near the surface in the Tarai region is of a
limited capacity varying in thickness from 50 to 100
feet and it is not confined.
(ii) Wlells from 1 to 1½< cusecs (artesian) can be constructed
but may have to be taken to between 200 to 500 feet
depth to ensure sustained yields over the course of years.
(iii) Seasonal fluctuations in the elevation of the water table
in Bhabar may be about 55 ft. The study has not so far
indicated any limitation in the quantity of water which
may be withdrawn. The maximum depth of drilling so far
carried out in Bhabar is 496 ft and in the Tarai 1,000 ft.
The latter revealed the continuation of Siwalik formations
(lower Himalayan ranges) under the Bhabar and Tarai.






ANNEX 3
Page 5
(iv) At present the phreatic water level in the 100 ft aquifer
in Tarai is near the ground surface during the rainy
season and drops at times to 15 ft below ground level
before the onset of rains. This is due not only to evapo-
transpiration or seepage into local drains, but to
groundwater flowing south towards the Ganges Valley.
(v) Observations of the seasonal fluctuations in the elevation
of groundwater table in the area of UPAU have shown a
regular drop of the groundwater table in the dry season
and, starting in May, a rise w-hich brings the water table
near to the ground surface at the end of the rainy season.
The start in the rise as early as NIay can be attributed
mainly to increased precipitation in the Bhabar and on
the Siwalik range. Rainfall at that time is small and
does not increase the run-off in the rivers. It penetrates
the soil surface and is added to the balance of groundwater.
The first impervious layer of the Tarai starts under the
Bhabar at approximately 40 ft below ground surface. When
the water table under the Bhabar is 55 ft below the ground,
the flow from the Bhabar into the top layer of the Tarai
is nil. When, following rain, the water table in Bhabar
rises higher than 40 ft below ground surface it enters
the Tarai top layer with a consequent rise at Pantnagar.
(vi) After the Tarai is fully developed, the quantity of water
available in the top 50 ft for pumping from open shallow
wells would be restricted. Replenishment will then be
only by direct rainfall and irrigation seepage. The total
quantity available for the area is probably equal to a
depth of about 15 inches per year, but this would be
inadequate since the cultivated area requires annually
a depth of 35 to h5 inches. Although this water will be
more saline than that drawn from deeper aquifers, it is
not expected, even with additional pumping in future,
that its quality will be so saline as to render it
unsuitable for irrigation.
(vii) The quality of groundwater has been chemically tested by
taking 150 water samples from aquifers at various depths
and times in the season. The tests give the following
limits:






ATNNEX 3
Page 6
Temperature         200 - 27.50C
pH                  7.5 - 9.3
Conductivity        278 - 612 micro mohs
Suspended matter    205 - 500 parts per million (ppm)
CaCO3               6 - 350 ppm
H2C03               79 - 219 ppm
SOb                 17 - 83 ppm
Ca                  9 - 97 ppm
MIg                 nil - 25 ppm
K                   nil - h ppm
Na                  7 - 16 ppm
Chloride            8 - 20 ppm
From these data it can be concluded that the groundwater from
the confined aquifers is suitable for irrigation.
Surface Water
16.       The Tarai is crossed by a number of streams.  When they enter
the plain tney become wide and shallow and much of the run-off percolates
into the underground aquifers. Rainfall on the catchment of the streams
is concentrated and falls mainly during one rainy season, when the
streams carry sizeable flows. However, soon after the dry season begins
the flow reduces and, because of seepage losses in the Bhabar zone, the
dry season run-off is negligible and too small for any irrigation of
importance.
Present Irrigated Area in Tarai
17.       Schemes totaling a command area of 120,000 acres in the area
supply canal water during the rainy season. Storage is inadequate to
sustain supply during the dry season and farmers have developed some open
wells and an increasing number of one and two cusec tubewells, constructed
by local contractors, tapping the upper and second aquifer. Field
channels are mainly open, although recently a start has been made in
converting them to underground concrete pipe systems. The most common
irrigation practice is basin flooding with basins built every year after
land preparation. The size of the command area of the schemes is usually
too large for the capacity of the channels constructed which are designed
for 250 acres for one cusec which is inadequate for dry season cultivation
of most crops.
Water Requirements
18.       Research on water consumption by various crops has not been
carried out in the field, so that estimates of water requirement are
tentative and are based on the Blaney and Criddle formula using the






ANNEX 3
Page 7
following crop coefficients for crops which would be grown in the pro-
ject area:
Sugarcane           0.8 all year round
VJheat and maize    0.7
Rice                1.2
Mustard seed        o.6
Other crops         0.8
Assuming irrigation efficiency of 65% (conveyance
through lined canals or underground pipe and light soils).
The water requirement so calculated is that 80 acres require one cusec
during the driest month of a dry year. This figure is confirmed by
the present cultivation on existing farms, where 70-100 acres are
adequately served per cusec of available discharge.
19.       The project proposes to install tubewells to tap the required
capacity from the first and second aquifers (between 60-100 and
200-300 ft). WIhile sufficient data are available to warrant tapping
of these aquifers, it is not entirely certain that the withdrawal of
about 100,000 acre-ft annually will not interfere with planned tubewell
development elsewhere in UP although no serious problems are en-
visaged. Detailed investigation of the depth and capacity of the
successive aquifers would be carried out by ETO in order to establish
the most efficient methods of exploiting these resources. Such in-
vestigations would be carried out according to a program satisfactory
to the Bank.
20.       The project would finance provision of irrigation for 26,000
acres which would require a discharge of 325 cusecs. This volume would
probably be provided by about 145 tubewells of one cusec and about
90 tubewells of two cusecs capacity. Proposed well capacities are
based on their suitability for farm and field layouts in the area and
the experience of farmers and local tubewell drilling contractors.
Available contractors and equipment would be adequate for the program
of well construction proposed.






ANNEx 4
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
Project Farm Sizes and Irrigated Acreages
1.        The Seed Production Division of UPAU has collected basic data
from its Associated Seed Growers in 1967/68 relating to farm size and
available irrigation facilities. The data refer to about 50% of
the farmers in the area who have signified their interest in participation
in the project. UPAU staff members concerned consider, and the mission
agree, that the data collected give a reasonably typical picture of farm
size distribution throughout the project area. This view is supported by
the results of a survey of farm size distribution carried out in February
1967 by UPAU staff. Table 1 illustrates size distribution and average
farm sizes of Associated Seed Growers with Mission estimates of farm size
distribution and acreage of the 400 farmers who have indicated their wish
to participate in the project.
Table 1: Size Distribution and Average Holding Size
Size Range  Niumber of    Total    Average   Estimated Total     Est. Total
in Acres    Holdings    Acreage   Acreage    No. of Holdings    Acreage
0-50          65        2,078       32          117              3,744
51-100         57        14,734      83          104              8,632
101-250         46        7,604      165          111             18,315
251-500         27       10,180      377           53            19,981
Over 500        10       12,872    1,287           15            19.305
Total        205       37,468      183           400           69,977
Add UPAU Farm:             1            10,000
Estimated Total Project Holdings: 401             79t977
2.        In addition to providing information on farm sizes, Associated
Seed Growers indicated acreages under irrigation both by tubewell and by
other means. Irrigation other than by tubewell would be either by canal,
mainly confined to the kharif season, or by shallow, open wells.   Table 2
summarizes acreages under irrigation by administrative blocks.






ANNEX 4
Page 2
Table 2: Irrigated Acreages: UPAU Associated Seed Growers
Number of    Total           Acreage Irrigated          Percent
Block        Holdings   Acreage   Tubewell   Other Means    Total   Irrigated
Rudrapur        50      11,743     3,806        3,662       7,468      64
Bazpur          48       5,151     2,516          733      3,249       63
Bilaspur        53      10,308     5,583        2,209      7,792       76
Kashipur        54      10.266     5,017        2.451      7.468       73
Total          205      37,468    16,922        9,055      25,977      69
Overall Percent Irrigated 100       45           24           69
3.        It is probable that the Associated Seed Growers of UPAU will
tend to be among the more progressive of farmers in the project area. The
200 other farmers who wish to participate in the project would probably
tend to have proportionately less land under irrigation. To take account
of this factor, and bearing in mind the inadequacyof canal irrigation in
the area, the mission estimates that no more than about 25% of the
likely participant holdings in the area or about 20,000 acres are already
adequately irrigated, by tubewell.
4.        The project would seek to bring about full development for seed
production on some 46,000 acres divided between about 400 holdings totalling
some 80,000 acres in extent. Since it is conservatively estimated that
25% of this area is already irrigated and that farmers would grow seed
crops on this land anyway, a balance of 26,000 acres would remain to be
irrigated under the project.






ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
Land Levelling
1.        Land levelling is essential to make best use of irrigation
water thereby ensuring even growth of seed producing crops. Wheat, in
particular, is highly sensitive to insufficient or excessive soil water.
The importance of levelled irrigated land is appreciated by the farmers
of the area who have already, in the course of two decades
of cultivations, produced large areas which requiire little, if any,
further treatment. It is estimated that, of the 46,ooo acres proposed
for development within the project area, about half of the 20,000 acres
which is adequately irrigated is also adequately levelled. Of the
remaining 10,000 acres it is estimated further that farmers would
level 4,000 acres themselves so that the project would require to make
provision for the 26,000 acres which is neither irrigated nor levelled
plus 6,000 acres which is already irrigated but not levelled, making
32,000 acres in all.
2.        The land levelling to be carried out by contractors would
be the subject of one or two large contracts let by TDC on farmers'
behalf. These contracts would be awarded on the basis of the lowest
evaluated bid on a unit price basis. The unit prices thus established
would be used in individual sub-contracts between the successful bidder
and the individual farmer.
3.        Land levelling of individual farms would be preceded by
surveys carried out by the Land Development Division of UPAU, which
would take account of the chemical and pbh-sical properties of the soil
and the topography of the area to be treated.  Surveys would provide
information on the volume of soil to be moved and average distances of
movement such that reliable cost estimates of the work would be avail-
able after applying the anit prices already contracted for by TDC.
While the contra3tors would make their own estimates of the work in-
volved, farmers would have an authoritative guide from their surveys.
In view of the lack of experience in this field in India, however, it
is probable that, at least initially, UPAU data would be accepted by
contractors. Furthermore, SBI would be largely guided by the UPAU
surveys in deciding to make credit available to the farmer in question.
4.       The estimated overall charge of Rs 750 per acre used in
this report is based on work carried out by UPAU on its 10,000 acres
farm under a variety of soil and topographical conditions. It makes
appropriate allowances for operating costs, design and supervision,
interest and loan repayment and contractors' profit. UPAU experience
indicates that levelling costs may vary from Rs 200 to Rs 1,200 per
acre using International Harvester TD 15 bulldozer equipment, a
70 HP wheel tractor with a one cu yd scraper and a 170 HP motor
grader. In many cases this level of equipment would not be needed
and adequate results would be obtainable by using 70/90 HP wheeled
tractors with scrapers and graders which would have the advantage of






ANNEX 5
Page 2
cheaper operation and greater mobility.
5.        The precise make-up of units of levelling equipment to be
purchased by contractors would be determined by the contractors them-
selves in the light of UPAU experience and their own judgement, with
prncurement in accordance with international competitive bidding pro-
cedures. However, the following list of equipment has been used for
estimation purposes:
Number  Foreign Exchange   Local   Total
-Rs tOOO - - - -
105 HP Crawler Tractor with
8-11 cu yd capacity Scraper
and Dozer Blade                     4        1,000          160    1,160
70/90 HP iQheel Tractor with
Planer and Scraper                 20        1,280          120    1,4oo
Road Grader                         4          700          100      800
Auxiliary Equiprent including
low loading trailers for
crawler tractors                             1,320          120    1,h4o
Contingency (10%)                         500           -       500
TOTAL                                   4,800          500    5,300
6.        SBI would provide credit up to 75% of the capital cost of
equipment with contractors providing the balance. All equipment would
probably be purchased in the first two years of the project in order
to meet proposed phasing of land levelling operations as indicated
below:
1969/70  1970/71  1971/72    1972/73   1973/74   Total
Acreages
to be
Levelled   4,000      7,000    9,000     9,000     3,000    32,000






ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS FROJECT
Exctension of Electrification Facilities
1.        The past record of power shortages in the Tarai area has been
caused mainly by inadequate transmission facilities to meet the needs of
the rapidly increasing numbers of tubewells. The UP State Electricity
Board (SEB) has designed extensions to its existing transmission systems
in the Tarai area which more than meet the estimated additional power
needs of the proposed project, both for energising tubewells and for seed
processing operations. The extensions proposed have been designed to
cater for a pumping load of 500 cusecs assuming a pumping efficiency of
50 percent wjith an average head of 90 feet plus an allovaance of 500 kw
for seed processing plants. The estimated tubewell needs of the project
would be a pumping load of 325 cusecs but it is more than likely that
additional tubewell development would proceed on farms in the area without
direct assistance from the project and for this reason the extensions
proposed by the SEB are fully warranted.
2.        The Board's proposals for extending its existing 33 KV trans-
mission and distribution netwrork are indicated on the map. Estimated
costs of proposed works totalling Rs 6.06 million are shoim below. These
estimates are based on recent actual costs for line and substation con-
struction by SEB which has considerable experience in this field.
a) 33 KV Transmission Lines
km
i)  Kiccha    - Sitarganj           23
ii)  Bazpur    - Ghulabhij           25
iii)  Kashipur  - Romnagar            30
iv)  Kashipur  - Jaspur              22
100
Rs'000
Estimated cost at Rs 12,000 per km        1,200
Additional 16% for establishment,
buildings and contingencies                192
Subtotal for 33 KV transmission lines     1,392
Indirect foreign ;:cnange costs .ro estimated at 40%






ANNEX
Page 2
b) 33 KV Substations
Rs'000
New substations at:
i)  Sitarganj ( 3 MVA)                     350
ii) Ghulabhh±  (1.5 NVA)                    225
iii)  Ramnagar   ( 3 MVA)                    350
iv)  Jaspur     (1.5 XVA)                   225
1,150
Increasing capacity at Bazpur substation
by 1.5 NVA           150
1,300
Additional 16%  for establishment etc.           208
Subtotal for Substationst
Indirect foroign e:change costs a!re estimated at 25%
c)  11 KV Distribution                        Rs'000
i) 96 hm main 11 KV lines at
Rs 6,250 per km                         600
ii) Strengthening and regrouping
32 km of existing feeder lines          100
700
Additional 16% for establishment etc.        112
Subtotal for 11 K; distribution          812
Indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated at LO%
d) 40o V Distribution
Rs'000
Electrification of 235 tubewells at
an average cost of Rs 10,000 each        2.350
Indirect foreign exchange costs are estimated at 30%
Grand total of estimated costs         Rs 6,062,000






ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
Farm Mechanization
1.        Holdings in the Tarai area are already partially dependent
on tractors as the source of poier for cultivation operations. Farms
generally are ill-equipped for food grain cultivation, however, largely
because of the acute shortage of tractors and implements in India.
In consequence, acreages sown to food grains tend to be somewhat
limited, seed bed preparation is inferior and harvesting arrangements
are dependent on a seasonable labor supply which is declining and
rapidly becoming more expensive.
2.        The production of seed crops demands the highest standards
of farming. Seed beds must be properly prepared, fertilizer evenly
applied, seeds drilled at uniform depth and spacing at the optimum
time, weeds controlled and crops harvested at the correct stage of
maturity if the seed produced is to be suitable for subsequent sale
as a quality product.  Provision of fertile soils, adequate water
and plant nutrients must be complemented by properly executed cultural
operations before a good seed crop can be assured. Because the short-
age of mechanical equipment in the area would seriously hamper proposed
operations, the project would provide funds for purchase of the items
needed to mechanize seed production on the L6,000 acres which would be
developed for this purpose.
3.        Calculation of probable machinery needs was based on esti-
mates prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program preparation mission
supplemented by information provided by UPAU and Indian suppliers of
farm equipment. The preliminary list used for purposes of estimation
is at Table 1. The proposed import of large 90 HP, wheeled tractors
would be mainly for the largest farms, of 500 acres and over, and for
those participants who wqould carry out land levelling operations on
their own farms, some contract land levelling and other operations
for their neighbors. A reserve of power, above the normal needs of
project activities, would be provided by the equipment proposed in
order that seed production would not be jeopardized by failure to
carry out timely operations. It is to be expected that farmers would
also use project equipment for normal farming operations but project
activities would receive priority because of their higher relative
profitability.
4.        The project area has a number of agents representing the
main tractor and implement manufacturers and importers in India each
of which pay some attention to after sales service. Their efficacy
in this connection is limited by the acute shortage of spare parts
of all kinds. Those which are manufactured locally are in short
supply due to inadequate fabrication capacity. Those which are im-
ported are delayed and in short supply as a result of long delays in






ANNEX 7
Page 2
the issue of import permits. Provision of Rs 9.2 million (Us$ 1.2
million) has been made in the project for spare parts to be imported
to ease the maintenance and repair problem in the area. This sum is
based upon the estimated life and type of machinery used, as indicated
in Table 2.
5.        Provision of some Rs 46 million (US$ 6.1 million) would be
made for purchase of farm machinery of which Rs 39 million (Us$ 5.2
million) would be foreign exchange component. Expenditure, whilst
phased over the first five years of the project, would be mainly con-
centrated in years two and three to match on-farm development. The
Land Development Division of UPAU would, in its farm plans, indicate
the type and quantity of machinery required to match proposed development.






!INNEX 7
Table 1
PRELDI4INARY LIST OF FA-Fd4 MACHINERY
Foreign                     Probable
Type of F4uipment                   Ecchange   Local    Total   Numbers
-- - -    lis co0 - - - - -
35 HP Tractor                        21.0       1.0     22.0     240
50 HP Tractor                        38.5       1.5     40.0     120
70/90 HP Tractor                     57.5       2.5     60.0      40
Low Volume Sprayer                    2.0       0.5      2.5     200
Power Sprayer                         2.0       o.5      2.5      50
12' Fertilizer Spreader               4.5       o.5      5.0     115
8' Fertilizer Spreader               3.5       o.5      4.0     170
Combined Seed/Fertilizer Drill       13.5       1.0     14.5     255
Corn Planter                          6.o       o.5      6.5     210
12' Pull type Combine Harvester      42.5       2.5     45.0     100
71 Pull type Combine Harvester      33.0       2.0     35.0      45
Mounted Corn Picker                  28.5       1.5     30.0     100
Stalk Shredder                        5.5       o.5      6.o     255
4/5 Bottom Reversible Plow'          12.5       1.0     13.5     115
3 Bottom Reversible Plow             8.o       0.5      8.5     250
12' Cultipack/Cambridge Roll          4.0       1.0      5.0      60
8' Cultipack/Cambridge Roll          3.5       0.5      4.0     170
12' Disc Harrows                      6.5       1.0      7.5     115
8' Disc Harrows                      6.o       0.5      6.5     170
Wide Land plane                      13.5       1.5     15.0      42
Medium Land plane                    14IL       4.0      4.0     170
Tipping Trailer                      NIL        6.3      6.8     460
Total Cost plus Contingencies:     39,000     7,000   46,ooo






..z,1rEx Y
Table 2
CALCULATION OF FARdv ML.CHELO`-;1
SPARE PARTS REQUIREMhNTS
Estimfted Percentage
Estimated Life   of Foreign Ecchange
Type of Squipment                     (Years)         Cost in Spares
35 HP Tractor                            7.5               40
50 HP Tractor                            7.5               h0
70/90 HP Tractor                         7.5               40
Low Volume Sprayer                       7.5               10
Power Sprayer                            7.5               10
121 Fertilizer Spreader                 10                 15
8' Fertilizer Spreader                 10                 15
Combined Seed/Fertilizer Drill          10                 20
Corn Planter                            10                 20
12' Pull type Combine Harvester         10                 25
7' Pull type Combine Harvester         10                 25
Mounted Corn Picker                     10                 25
Stalk Shredder                          10                 20
h/5 Bottom Reversible Plow              15                 10
3 Bottom Reversible Plow              15                 10
12t Cultipack/Cambridge Roll            15                 10
8' Cultipack/Cambridge Roll            15                 10
121 Disc Iarrows                        15                 10
8' Disc Harrows                        15                 10
Wide Land plane                         15                 10
Medium Land Plane                       15                 NIL
Tipping Trailer                         15                 NIL
Total Imported Spare Parts Cost, derived from Tables 1 and 2, = Rs 9.2 ri.i
(US$ 1..2 million)






ALNNEC 8
Page 1
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
Seed Processing
1.        The processing of seed to give a uniform, viable product with
minimal foreign body admixture and moisture content compatible with
sustained high germination capacity calls for specialized equipment and
skills.   The project would seek to provide these facilities for use by
TDC.
2.        The project would promote the production of some 46,ooo tons of
processed foodgrain seed divided between wet season (kharif) and dry
season (rabi) crops.   The constraints imposed by two seasons of seed
production per year, the monsoon season, the establishment and maintenance
of high quality standards and the need to ensure timely deliverT of
processed seed to retailers have been taken into account in the selection
and layout of processing plants proposed for the project.    Existing
processing facilities would also be utilized as explained below.
3.        Six small processing plants are in operation in the project area.
Of these, one at Pantnagar owvned by UPAJ and another at Hempur owned by
NSC are currently used and would continue to be used for processing
foundation seed produced on the University and NSC foundation seed areas.
The remaining four plants, which have been developed on an ad hoc basis
have neither the capacity, the layout nor the potential for expansion to
meet project needs.   Their total capacity is 15,300 tons per annum.
These plants of wrhich three in the Pantnagar area belong to UPAU and the
fourth, near Kashipur, belongs to Hessrs. Escorts Ltd., are equipped with
a range of equipment from different sources which, while unsuitable for
sustained processing of large quantities of grain, would be of considerable
value as substations for predrying project maize on the cob down to 20
percent followed by sorting and shelling.   Thereafter, the maize wiould be
transferred to the main plants for final processing.   TDC would lease the
four plants in question and would, if the need arose, use them as standby
capacity.
4.        The specialist consultant to the appraisal mission examined the
question of required processing capacity in relation to numbers of plants
in some detail.   He considers and the mission agrees, that a total
capacity of 6O,o00 tons of seed would be required per annum, and that this
capacity should be divided equally between two plants of 30,000 tons each,
located at Pantnagar and Kashipur.   Each plant would consist of driers,
precleaners, cleaners, seed dressing and bagging machinery linked by a
conveying system to storage silos and warehouse facilities as illustrated
in Figures 1 and 2.
5.        Although a single 60,000 ton capacity plant wrould theoretically
be cheaper to install and to operate than several smaller plants, these
benefits would be more than offset by practical disadvantages which
include the following.   To avoid excessive transport costs, the plant
would require to be centrally sited in the project area.    No suitable
site exists.   Management and operation of a 60,000 ton plant to ensure
continuous tlhroughput and prevention of varietal mixtures which could not






Page 2
be detected until subsequent harvest would require management oI l.e
highest calibre which would be very hard to obtain. Loss of productvrt
due to unforeseen reasons from a single plant would be very diffi-
cult to make up and could be critical.
6.         Two plants, on the other hand, each serving half of the
project area, could be conveniently sited on main north/south roads
and railways, at centers of population with labor, water and power
supplies on hand. The proposed Pantnagar and Kashipur sites meet
these criteria. Processing of different varieties could be split be-
tween the two plants to minimize admixture risks. Management by
Indian personnel would be feasible and siting would be such that subse-
quent expansion as needed could take place at well sited, established
centers.
7.         Siting of proposed plants would follow a careful survey to
include consideration of the following criteria:
a) freedom from flooding;
b) space for expansion;
c)  good road connections with growing areas;
d)  good road and rail connections south, out of the
project area, with preferably a rail siding;
e)  safe distance from buildings or other potential
fire hazards;
f) access to electricity, water, drainage;
g) availability of labor and sewage facilities.
8.         Building costs and precise design of processing plant would
be dependent on the outcome of detailed survey of potential plant
sites. This is because soil conditions and the high water table in
parts of the project area require piling to be used for high buildings
or for buildinr;s exerting relatively great ground pressures. Several
alternative layouts have been put forward as possibly suitable for
the project area, but their adoption would be dependent on detailed
consideration of specific site conditions by consultants who would be
hired by TDC.
9.         For the purpose of cost estimation, the alternative in-
volving high silos with piling has been used for each site. Figures
1 and 2 illustrate its layout.  Investment cost estimates, amounting
to some Rs 22 rillion, a-nd phasing of the proposed Pantnagar and
Kashipur plants are given in Table 1.
10.        Figures 3, 4 and 5 illustrate the proposed phasing cf the
different processing operations throughout each ys-r in relt. .n tc
labor requirements and project crops.






ANNEX 8
Table 1
TDC INVESTIMENT PHASING IN PROCESSING PLANTS
(RstOoO)
Total
Pantnaaar (Nagla)          Kashipur         Bet
1969/70       1969/70  1971/72   Total  Plants
CIVIL ENGINEERING
Silo Bins (10,000 tons)            3,150        1,600    1,550     3,150   6,300
Processing Tower                     800          800      -         800   1,600
Intake Building                       60           60      -          60     120
Warehouse (5,000 tons)               800           800     -          8co  1,600
Piling                             2,000        1,000    1,000     2,000   4,000
Heating and Sanitary
Installations                        300           300               300     600
Sub Total                    7,110         4,560   2,550      7,110 14,220
Contingencies (10%)                 700          450      250       700   1,4oo
Total                    7,810         5,010   2,800      7,810 15,620
MECHANICAL INSTALLATIONS
Conveyors                            290          220       70       290     580
Driers, Pre-cleaners,
Cleaners, etc.                   1,o4o          780      260     1,040   2,080
Electrical Installations             560          500       60       560   1,120
Freight, Insurance, Erection         420           320     100       420     840
Sub Total                    2,310         1,820      490     2,310  4,620
Contingencies (10%)                 230          180       50       230     460
Total                    2,540         2,000     540      2,540  5,o80
GRAND TOTAL                   10,350         7,010    3,340    10,360 20,700
1/                                 ---
Consultants-                     700          600      100       700  1,400
Overall Investment Cost            11,050        7,610   3,44o    11,C50 22,100
-        -            _ 
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST FOR TWO 30,000 TON
CAPACITY PROCESSING PLANTS: Rs. 22.1 million
I/ Consultancy work would be initiated for both plants in 1968/69.






INDIA: TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
BLOCK DIAGRAM-PROPOSED PROCESSING PLANT
r    A            S         A            r-          1             r -  I
rPRECLEANING           INTERSTORING            SILO                           M                  WAREHOUSE
2 x 80 T/H             600 TONS                STORING                   4 x 5 T/H              STORING
9,000 TONS                                       5,000 TONS
INTERSTORING            CLEANING
600 TONS                3 x 3.5 T/H
DRYING                 INTERSTORING
3 x 0T /H              360 TONS
INTAKE
2 x80 T/ H
>   <t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Bm
IBRD-3952 M






INDIA: TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
BIN CAPACITIES-PROPOSED PROCESSING PLANT
Bill CAPCIT1ES
BEFCG  DRIERS -   242 .25 TONS . 600 TONS
BEORWE CLEANERS  2625 T00S - 600 TONS
AFTER CLEANERS  IT2 30O1ON5 - 360 TONS
STOR   A   120T   TONS  -  000  TONS
TOTAL. 10.560 TONS
SCALE    1:200 o
BR  X






ANNEX 8
FIGURE 3
INDIA: TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
OPERATIONAL CHART AND STORAGE
PLANT CHARACTERISTICS:
RECEPTION   240 TONS/HR (MACHINE CAPACITY)
DRYING       60 TONS/HR
CLEANING     25 TONS/HR                        STORED RAW MATERIAL
TREATMENTi 40 TONS/HR                          CLEANINGS: STOCK FEED
BAGGING   j_                                    LAIG:SOKFE
STORAGE:                                           STORED CLEANED SEED
SILOS      2 x 10,500 TONS                     BAGED PROCESSED SEED
WAREHOUSE 2x 5,000 TONS                          G
WHEAT
40                                    .                40
.,MONSOON:
30                  .......                            30
20                                                     2 0
0                                                     0
0                                                              0
H                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
cn
LL     MAIZE                                                   >
30                                                         30  z
30
z 20                                           20              0
Cl)
~~~~~  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~0
00
H 0                                                      0
RICE
20                              :   :.                 2 0
-'MONSOON:
10                                                     10
0              I   \       I                          o
JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC
IBRD - 3954






ANNEX 8
FIGURE 4
INDIA: TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
INTAKE
IO
MONSOON''
8                               .:  :::  ..:
WHEAT
6~~
6                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIZE
4                                                                   RICE
2
0
DRYING                                                       NO. OF
MACHINE CAPACITY 60 TONS/H                                   SHIFTS
8
jMON OON'                        - 3
6                                                                  2
w
L     4
cr    2
w
z
0
CLEANING
LL      MACHINE CAPACITY 25 TONS/H
o     4
U)                                    :MONSOON.- 3
z
U)
0
TREATMENT BAGGING
MACHINE CAPACITY 40 TONS/H
6
4  MONSOON:.
4                               :.  .   :......
2                                                                  1 |-
0
DELIVERY
WHEAT                  MAIZE                 RICE
350 TONS/DAY    7/     330 TONS/DAY     m    230 TONS/DAY
E      2,100 TONS/WEEK  0    2,000 TONS/WEEK  \Y 1,400 TONS/WEEK
4
MONSOON.
2 J    F
JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC
IBRD- 3955I






INDIA: TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
LABOR NEEDS IN PROPOSED PROCESSING PLANT
NUMBER OF MEN                                                                    NUMBER OF MEN
ONE PLANT                                                                        TWO PLANTS
30,000 TONS PER YEAR                                                             60,000 TONS PER YEAR
80 -                                                                                                       160.**..- 
70                                                                                                         140
60                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120
20                                                                                                         4 ....0
10                                                                                                         10
40                                                                                                      +  8tl l . . l ',i.,110
0.       .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . .                             .  .  . .    .   .  .  .  .  .
,                                 ^  _   ... ..  ..  .  .   . . . .................. . ... . ........... .... ..... .5 .... .. . . . ...... . . . . . . . . . .. . .... . . . .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... ...... . ....... ..                                                   b,.,.  ,y^  ......
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .... ........... ... . ....  -: ,.-, -...........
O-.    j... . ... . . . . ... .... . . .   . . . . . .   . . . .   . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . ,, ,  .  ..,,,... . . .  .j-O
JAN     FEB     MAR      APR     MAY     JUIN     JUL1    AUGC     SEP     OCT      NOV     DEC
10~~                                ~ .   .. ..  ____..  __ __...   .  ...  .
m.FOREMEN (33,000)                   ...      TREATMENT (7,100)
RECEPTION (8,000)                          H    DELIVERY (28,200)
DRYING (5,000)                           jjjj   PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE, REPAIR ( 26,000)
C LE A NING (1I0,5 00 )
NOTE: FIGURES IN PARENTHESES INDICATE NUMBER OF MAN-HOURS PER YEAR.                                     sl
I BRD - 3956  m x
......   .   ....                              ..........   ..~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 






ANNEX 9
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
INVESTMENT OOSTS
(Rs '000)
1969/70i/    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73   1973/71    Total       of which
Foreign Exchange
A. TDC Processing Plants
Buildings                                                11,670         -         2,550      -          -      14,220
Mechanical/Electrical Installations                       4,130         -           490      -          -        4,620         2,600
Contingencies (10 percent)                                1,560         -          300       -          -       1,860            260
Consultant Services                                      1,300          -          100       -          -       1,400          1,200
Pre-Production Administrative Costs                        150          -          -         -          -         150            -
Sub Total      18,810          -        3,140       -          -      22,250          4,o60
B. On-Farm
Land levelling by Contractors                             3,000       5,250       6,750    6,750      2,250     24,000          M80OO
Land levelling by Farmers                                  100          100         100      100        -         100            -
Tubewell Construction                                    1,100        1,650       1,930    1,930        550     7,160          3,800
Irrigation Distribution Systems                          3,180        4,770       5,830    5,830      2,120    21,730            -
Farm Machinery                                           13,800      18,400       9,200     4,600       -      46,ooo         39,000
Spare Parts for Imported Farm Machinery                   2,760       3,680       1,840      920                 9,200         9,200
Surveys                                                     410         310        310       100        -       1,130            170
Sub Total      24,350       34,160     25,960    20,230      4,920   109,620         56,970
C. Electrification
33KV Transmission Lines                                   1,1400        _-                              -       1,100            560
33KV Substations                                          1,500         -                                       1,500            380
11KV Distribution                                           800         -           -        -          -          800           320
4OV Distribution                                           360         540         630      60o        180      2,350           700
Sub Total       1,o60          540        630       640        180     6,050          1,960
D. Fertilizer                                                  6,ooo        6,ooo       7,500    7,500      3,000    30,000         30,000
Total       53,220      10,700      37,530   28,370      8,100    167,920        92,990






PMNaE 10
Page 1
MIDIA - TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
Credit Policies and Procedures
A. Loan Applications
Farmers and land levelling contractors
1.        The basic documentation to be produced by farmers and land
levelling contractors in support of a loan application to the SBI under
the Bank loan would include: information on the farmer's or contractor's
experience, full particulars of the farm or the contractor business and
its operation over recent years supported by financial statements, and
farm development plan covering the various aspects of the proposed invest-
ment or plans for machinery purchases and their proposed operation.
The farm development plan would, in particular, estimate the financial
results of the proposed development and the borrower's financing require-
ments of any type.   Likewise, plans for machinery purchases would
estimate the financial results of their operation and contractors' overall
financial requirements.   To prepare loan applications and farm plans,
farmers would be able to secure the services of the UPAUT Land Development
Div ision.
2.        These loan applications would be reviewed by a technical unit
made up of a senior professor of the UPAU and three assistants on second-
ment to the SBI.   The technical unit would examine the technical
feasibility, economic and financial soundness of the farm development
plans and the financing applied for,    It would recommend to SBI the
purposes, anmunts and maturities of the loans.   Loan decisions wzould be
made on the basis of the recommendations of the technical unit and
findings of the banking staff on the farmer's or contractor's overall
creditworthiness.
3.        Farm development to be financed by SEI under the project would
be limited to that which would be reasonable in the light of the farmers'
likely seed production commitments to TOC.    Land levelling equipment for
contractors to be financed by SBI under the project would be limited to
that necessary to meet the contractorst contractual obligations to TUG.
Tarai Development Corporation (TDC)
I.        TDC would submit to SBI detailed designs and estimates of the
seed processing plants to be constructed under the project, a financial
plan and its proposals for its organization and management as basic
documentation for SBI decision.   Designs would be established and all
works supervised by consultant engineers satisfactory to the Bank.
State Electricity Board (SEB)
5.        SEB would submit to SBI detailed estimates of the transmission
works to be constructed under the project.






ANNEX IC'
Page 2
B. Terms and Conditions ef Loans
6.        Loans would be made by SBI generally under one of the four
categories described below. Interest and financial charges are linked
to SBI Advance Rate, which is currently 7% per annum.
a) Medium Term Loan Scheme
These loans carry interest, at approximately 1?-l%
above SBI Advance Rate, have a maximum term of 10 years,
with a grace period of usually not more than two (but
sometimes three) years. Financing under this category
in the project would include land levelling, tubewell
and irrigation distribution system installation, and
processing plant construction and equipment. On-farm
development credit would normally be limited to 80%
of the total cost, or to 50% of the security offered,
whichever is the less.
b) Installment Credit Loan Scheme
These loans bear financial charges approxirately
equivalent to 2% above SBI Advance Rate, have a maximum
term of five years, with a grace period not exceeding
a few months. Financing under this category in the
project would include land levelling machinery for con-
tractors and farm machinery, limited to 75% of total cost.
c) Debentures
SBI would finance the State Electricity Board (SEB) up
to 100% of the cost of proposed works under the project
by the purchase of debentures which currently carry
6½% interest, are repayable after 10 years and are
guaranteed by the UP State Government.
d) Working Capital Advances
Working capital advances carry interest at approxi-
mately V-lo above SBI Advance rate. They would be made
available under the project to farmers for the purchase
of fertilizer, up to 75% of total needs and repayable
within about seven months depending on the crop. They
would also be made available to TDC to allow it to
make first payments to farmers for their certified seed,
to allow it to purchase foundation seed for sale to
farmers at certified seed prices and for normal pro-
cessing operations until such time as TDC has built up
its own Working Capital Reserve.






AIThEE 10
Page 3
7.        The SBI would require security from farmers as it thinks fit,
judging each case on its merits and estimated risks, taking account of the
fact that it would have control either directly or through TDC over the
proceeds of the sales of borrowers' crops.    In particular, it would avoid,
as far as possible, requiring ordinary mortgage on land and other immovables
which are excessively costly, satisfying itself with simpler and less
expensive securities such as the deposit of titles (equitable mortgage),
chattel mortgages and guarantors.
Loan Disbursements
8.        Mhenever possible disbursements would be made through direct
payments by SBI to suppliers of goods and services against commercial
documents.   Disbursemcnts in cash payable directly to the borrower would
be made on the basis of detailed statements of expenses established by the
borrower.
Supervision
9.        Field inspections would be made by SBI technicians wiho would
check the use of funds in accordance with the loan agreements, and see to
it that the assets assigned to the guarantee of the loan exist and their
value as security remains adequate.
Remedies
10.       SBI would suspend, and, where appropriate, premature loans under
the Bank loan  when informed by its oan supervisors or TDC that the farm
development plan for which the particular loan had been granted was not
being carried out in accordance lith the terms of the respective loan
agreement.   TDC would be informed of any suspension or prematuring of
loans.
Loan Recoveries
11.       All first payments to seed growers, made on delivery of seed to
TDC, would be paid by TDC through its account with SBI to the seed growers'
accounts either with SBI or other banks.   The farmers' loan agreements
would provide that SBI may retain loan installments from such proceeds.
Proceeds of sales of seeds by TDC would also be deposited in its account
with the SBI and would guarantee the payment of loans due by it to SBI.
SBI would also retain loan installments by contractors from payments to
them on seed growers' loan accounts.






ANNEX 11
Page I
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
CREDIT ANqD BANKING SYSTEH IN INDIA
A. General
1.        The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as a central banlc heads the bank:-
ing and credit system which comprises essentially a number of development
corporations, commercial banks, either scheduled or non-scheduled and credif;
cooperative societies. Cooperatives fall into two major groups extending
short-term (crop) credit and long-term (development) credit respectively.
Each group is represented at the level of States by an apex institution,
the State Cooperative Bankc and Ccntral Land Mortgage Banks. 1/
2.        The only sizable source of institutional credit presently avail-
able directly to farmers is the cooperative system which relies heavily on
Governments funds due to the ceneral failure of the cooperative movement to
mobilize savings. Althaough its share in the provision of such credit has
increased steadily during the last 15 years, it is estimated very tentativc:',
that this might not amount to more than 25<S  but no   detailed survey
has recently been made.  The role of commercial banks in financing agricu'-
ture, especially in the form of direct loans to farmers, is insignificant.
Their participation does not reach one percent of the total borrowin-s of
farmers and, on the thole,about 0.) of one per cent of their overall credi'
is a-v present in agricultural loans, mostly of a short-term nature, Apar'
from a few loa0ns made directly to farmers by, State Governments (taccavi
loans) in an amount estimated to be as small as three percent, all other
sources of farmers' borrowings are non-institutional and consist of pro-
fessional mo.neylenders, traders and commission agents, wealthy farmers or
landlords. These various sources are costly.
3.        Over recent years a few cormmercial banks have shown interest in
expanding their business to rural areas and agriculture and have started
agricultural lending schemes, mostly oi a pilot nature, to gain experience
in this field.  This is in line with present Government policies.   Following
a change in the priorities assigned to various sectors by the Government i
a decrease in the rate of priva-te investments, commercial banks have been
asked by the RBI to expand their credit for exports, small-scale industriev
and more especially agriculture, to complement the cooperative credit
system in this latter field.
4.        To sunoort its declared policies, GOI has taken measures first to
increase its control of the distribution of credit and second to stimulate
the increased use of credit and private investment. Regarding the control
of the distribution of credit two steps have been talcen:  (i) the creation
I/  A&so called State Cooperative Land Development Banks.






ANNEX II
Page 2
of the National Credit Council to :2 ormulate credit policy and (ii) an
amendment to the Banking Law introduced in -arliament in December 1967.
The draft amendment includes provisions to ensure a proper compliance
of the RBI's decisions by the commercial banks, enabling GOI to acquire
them under certain circumstances, and reconstitution of their Boards of
Directors to reflect the interests of all sections of the economy, with
special reference to agriculture. The second series of measures consists
of the reduction by the RBI, on Harch 2, 1968, of its discount rate by
one per cent to five per cent and its directiorLs to the commercial banks to
reduce their rates of interest charged on loans or served to deposits by
generally 0.5 of one per cent  It seems therefore that commercial banks
are goina to play a more significant role than in the past in channeling
funds to farmers. A'tn outline of the banking and credit system is given
below.
B. Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
5.        The Government-owned RBI carries out central banking functions on
behalf of GOI. In this respect, it regulates the monetary system including
control of the currency, banking and credit systems and carries out the
banking and financial operations of GOI. It also performs a variety of
developmental functions in different sectors of the economy, particularly
ag,riculture and industry.
6.        The RBI act made it obligatory that the RBI set up a special
Agricultural Credit Department, with the main functions of (i) maintaining
an expert staff to study all questions of agricultural credit and to be
available for consultation and (ii) coordinating the agricultural credit
oDerations of the ban.k and its relations ith organizations engaged in this
field.  Through this department, the RBI has played a considerable role in
review,ring the status of agricultural credit in India, devising solutions to
its problems) training personnel and supervising institutions.  It has also
provided considerable financial assistance to cooperative credit institutions,
usually at concessional rates of interest, under ternis appropriate to opera-
tions financed.
7.        The RBI has played an active part in the creation of special
agencies to purvey term credit. These include the Industrial Financing
Corporation of India, the various state financial corporations and the
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC).
C.  Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
a .       The ARC is a statutory board established in 1963 with the object
of providing medium- and long-term finance for agriculture. The ARC is
primarily a refinancing agency for the Central Land Banks, State coopera-
tive banks and scheduled banks.  Purposes for which refinance facilities
are made available include land reclamation and improvement, irrigation,
development of plantation crops, farm mechlanization, livestock development,






al.;:n 11t
Pagye 3
pisciculture and poultry farming. The Corporation is also expected to
advise the institutions eligible for its financing and to assist them in
planning for the formulation and execution of projects.
9.        The authorized share capital of the Corporation is 25 crores 1/
of rupees in shares of Rs 10,000 of which five crores have been issued and
paid up.  The shares are guaranteed by GOI both as regards repayment of
principal and payment of a minimum annual dividend wlhich has been fixed at
1i% for  the first issue. The RBI holds at present 2,953 shares (i.e.
453 more than its statutory contribution), the Central Land Iortgage Banks
and otate cooperative banks, 1,356 shares and other shareholders, 691 shares.
10.       ARC derives its present resources of about 10.9 crores of rupees
(balance sheet in Table 1) from its paid-in capital of five crores of rupees,
a loan of five crores of rupees from GOI, and various deposits and provisions.
The GOI loan is interest free and repayable in 15 equal annual installments
commencing in 1978.  The Corporation has been given great latitude to raise
funds from internal or external sources in local or foreign currency and
under various forms, subject to the previous approval of GOI.   Although it
has not yet fully utilized its present funds for reTinancing it may have
to borrow to meet its existing commitments.
11.       The essentials of the Corporation's lending policies are the follow-
ing:
(i)  Loans should be for specific agricultural development
schemes which are compact and composite, suitable for
close and intensive supervision and evaluation, aimed
at increased production, economically justified and
commercially viable.
(ii)  There should be guarantees of good administration of
the schemes, whichl should benefit from the guidance of
tecinical departments.
(iii)  The period of refinance or loans in respect of medium-
term loans is for not less than three years and not more
than five years, and in respect of long-term loans for a
period exceedin- five years up to 15 years and, excep-
tionally, 20 years.
(iv)  I'linimum amount of refinance or loan is Rs 100,000.
(v)  Rate of interest is 5& p.a. open to reviewz by
the Corporation.
1/   One crore = 10 million.






ANNEX 11
Page L
(vi) All accommodation should normally be fully and un-
conditionally guaranteed by GOI as to the repayment
of principal and interest. However, if other security
to the satisfaction of the board of the Corporation is
available, it may dispense with the Government guaran-
tee.
12.       The ARC started functioning in July 1963.   Its operations have
developed at a slow pace during the first four years of its existence, but
appears to have gained considerable momentum during 1967/68. It now has a
staff of 80 professionals seconded from RBI with four branches answerable
to its head office in Bombay. Since inception to iMarch 31, 1968, the Cor-
poration has approved 95 schemes of agricultural development involving a
total financial outlay of Rs. 75.82 crores, the Corporation's participaticn
being Rs. 62.20 crores.   Of these 95 schemes, 56 were approved during the
first nine months of 1967/68, costing Rs. 34.11 crores and involving re-
financing of Rs. 28.14 crores. The purposewise classification of the
schemes is given in Table 2.
13.      iAudited condensed balance sheets and profit and loss accounts of
the Corporation are given in Tables 1 and 3 respectively. As of June 30,
1967, a significant portion of the Corporation's funds was in loans and deh.-n-
tures and the amount of investments of funds in securities had decreased
accordingly. The financial situation of the Corporation is satisfactory;
although its profitability has been poor to-date because of its past low
rate of activity.
D. The State Bank of India (SBI)
14.       The State Bank of India (SBI) was established by Act of 1May 8,
1955, for the general purposes of extending banking facilities more par-
ticularly in the rural and semi-urban areas and for various other   public
purposes. The same act transferred to it the undertaking assets and lia-
bilities of the Imperial Bank of India. The major state-associated banks,
located in the old princely states whElere the Imperial Bank of India had nut
extended its activities were also integrated with the SBI to become its suh-
sidiaries.  Abmong the banks which have taken some interest in helping the
agricultural sector and wlhich have taken effective steps to this purpose,
the SBI appears to have a leading role.
Capital
15.       The SBI's authorized capital is Rs   20 crores divided into two
million shares of 100 rupees each. The issued and paid-up capital is
Rs 5.63   crores, of which about 92%   is held by tle RBI  and the
balance by about 1,300 private shareholders, the remnants of the sharehoide6s
oi" the private Inperial Bank of India. The Board may increase the issued
capital but in such a manner that the RBI holds at any time over 55%
of it.






ANNEX I].
Page 5
UIanar-ement
16.       The general direction of tile affairs and business of the SBI is
entrusted to a central board at present comprising 21 members including a
chairman and, vice-chairman appointed by 0OI in consultation irith the RBI.
There are also seven local boards, controlling SBI's local head offices.
Organization and Staffing
17.       The SBI's head office is in Bomabay with seven local head offices
located in Bombay, Hladras, Calcutta, New Delhi, Kanpur, Aihmedabad and
Hyderabad. It has about 1,500 branches and agencies all over India and is
trying actively to increase its coverage of the rural areas.   The SBI em-
ploys almost 50,000 persons with professional staff experienced in current
commercial banking operations. It has established training facilities of
its own in 25 schools and zonal training centers, and in a staff training
college.  It also avails itself of the training facilities extended by the
Bankers' Training College of the RBI.  Recently it initiated a training
course with the assistance of the UPAiU to familiarize its field officers
wsith agriculture.
18.       The Kanpur local head office which covers the project area con-
trols about 175 branches and agencies wxith about 1,000 employees and has it-
self about 700 employees. Some 13 branches and agencies serve the project
area, and four additional offices are to be opened shortly. The Kanpur head
office is managed by a Secretary-Treasurer and his deputy.
Business of the SBI
19.       SBI acts as agent of the RBI at all places where it is represented
and where there is no branch of the banlcing departrment of the RBI for carry-
ing on operations on behalf of any -overnment in India and any other busi-
ness wlhich the RBI mayi entrust to it.  The SBI is above all intended to
carry on customary commercial banking business, but it is also engaged in
development banking.  Since 1959, it has been empowered to advance or lend
money for periods in excess of six months and up to ten years to persons
engaged in industries including agriculture -- in accordance wyith specific
directions issued by its central board. These credits may be made upon
the security of irmimovable property and are designed to serve both the pub-
lic and private sectors.
Sources and Cost of Capital
20.       The SBI derives its resources from its share capital and reser-
ves and deposits of any type received from the public. It may float loans
from any source and has rediscount facilities with the RBI.   It may also
apply for funds from the Industrial Finance Corporation and ARC for speci-
fic lending schemes or to finance projects in conjunction with these in-
stitutions.  The cost of funds :^aised through deposits, wuhich form about






90% of its resources, is about   5; p.a. including an interest served
to depositors at the average rate of about three per cent p.a.    (No
interest is served on current account, other rates range up to 6v for
five years terni, deposits.) As a result of the recent increase in deposits,
the SBI had to resort to borrowrings from the RBI on a smaller scale and
for shorter periods in 1967 than in 1966.
Activities
21.       As of December 31, 1967, deposits received by the SBI and its
subsidiaries accounted for about one-fourth of deposits received by all
scheduled bankcs. Advances and investment of the SBI group were in the pro-
portion of 28 and. 33% of total advances and investments respectively
of all scheduled banks (Table 4).   The growth of the SBI's activities has
been considerable (Table 5), and appears to have been achieved through ex-
pansion over new areas and new activities and to a small extent only at the
expense of the other banks.
22.       The S3I has made special efforts to expand its activities in the
industrial sector, by extending medium-term credit. It has more recently
made attempts to contribute to rural finance. Host of its assistance in
this sector has been through subscription of debentures issued by the Central
Land Mortgage Development banks and of shares of the Central Uarehousing
Corporation and loans to cooperatives, State Governmients and the Food Cor-
poration of India in the form of short-term credit mostly to finance procure-
ment and distribution of foodgrains, seeds and fertilizers.   It has also made
some credit against warehouse receipts.   Direct lendings to farmers have as
yet been insignificant. Table 5 includes details of the financial assistance
to the rural sector as of December 1966 and 1967.   As of December 31, 1967,
the overall finance devoted to agriculture by the SBI was about 57 crores of
rupees which represent about 9.5% of its advances. The amount of direct
loans was about L.6 crores of rupees or about 0.85D of advances.
23.       The SBI has reportedly experienced -ood repayments records since
it started operations.  As with other coimmercial banlks, most advances are
fully secured by some Icind of collateral. Advances for which the SBI holds
no other security than the debtor's personal security and secured by the
nersonal liabilities of one or more guarantors are a small proportion of
total advances. As of December 31, 1966 and 1967, such advances amounted to
about 14 and 12,   of the total portfolio respectively.
Financial Condition
24.       The SBI's condensed balance sheet and profit and loss accounts are
given in Tables 6 and 7. The financial situation appears to be satisfactory
although the net worth is quite small compared wmith total liabilities.  Its
operating expenses compare favorably with those of other commercial banks in
spite of its claim that operations made an behalf of the RBI are not profit-
able.  Its operation has always been pro)itable and. over recent years it has
been able to declare sizable dividends (23 rupees per share of 100 rupees
before tax in 1966 and, 1°67).






A NEXX
TABLE 1
AGRI :ULTU%1L REFINANICE CORPORATIMON
Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1964-1967
(in rupees '000)
1964        1965        1966       (f-.}1
Assets
Cash in hand and banks                158         167         19           h
Loans by way of refinance             --          --        1,470      3,0`0
Debentures                            --        4,500     47,531      66,72§
Investments in Central Government
Securities                       81,854      99,091      55,209     35,79t
Interest accrued on investments       489        423         311
Other Assets                       20,310        594       2,033       3,lJi,
Total Assets      102,811     104,775     106,573     108/,S5-?
Liabilities
Capital (paid-in) 1/               50,000     50,000      50, 000     50,or
Reserves and. surplus                   1           2          3           4
Special doposi-t                      --       1,131       2,386       3,6L.
Payment by Central Government in
respect of g>uaranteed dividends    --         259         540       1,
Loans from the Centra1 Governinent 50,000     50,000      50,000      5O,C O(
Provision for- dividends            1,910      2,125       2,125       2, 12
Provision for taxation               088       1,224       1,469       2, c
Other liabilities                      12         34          50          D
Total Liabilities 102,811     104,775     106,573     lo,
1/ Authlorized capital:  25,000 shares of 10,000 each.
SOURCE: Annval reports of the ARC.






ANNEX 11
TABLE 2
AGRICULTURAL REII;JANCE CORPORATION
Approved Schemes
Tamounts in crores of ru-peeE)
- - - - -7/1/53-3/31/68- - - -   - - - -7/1/67-3/31/68 - - -
NO.                              NbT.
iHature of the        of      Cost   Corporation's     of     Cost   Corporation's
Scheme         Scheme   Estimates   Conmitment  Scheme Estimates   CbruitTent
Land reclamation
& development       25      37.06        --           7     4.84
iHinor irrigation
projects            27      21.61        --         27     21.61
Plantation crops a
fruit trees
developiment        32      12,97        __         13      5.22
ilarine fisheries      4       2-78        __           2     1.03
Poultry development    4       0.63        --          4      0.63
Tractors               1       0.49        --           1     0.49
Purmp sets and poi-jer
tillers              2       0.28        --           2     0.28        --
95      75.0D2      62.20 1/     56    34.10      23.14
1/  Since inception to iHarch 31, 1968, disbursements aggregate about 10.40
crores of rupees.






ATI .l11:
TI';BLE 3
AGRICULTURiL REF"1711ANCE CORPORAiTION
Profit and Loss ALccounts for thle Years 1963/67
and Prol'it Arpropriations
(in rupees t000)
1963/6)4   1964/65    1065/66    1966/67
Income
Interest received
a) on loans & debentures    --            1      1,0890     3,057
b) on investments          3,751      3,997      3,257      1,925
3,751      3I996     4,346       4,982
1liscellaneous              --          --        --            1
Total Incomne    3,751      3,998     4,3146      4,983
E;qpcznd i tures
Interesti paid              --          --        --         --
Salaries, allowances,
provident funds            203        279        334       )475
liscellaneous exp.            9;        107        12        134
Provision for taxation     1,:,.0     1,76,j    24 406      2,)406
Total Expenditures    29099      2,151     2,752       3,015
11 et profit               1,652      1 ,8h i7   1, 59)4    1, 968
Total x-Denditure a Pro-
fits                     3,751      3,98 9,346           )4,983
Profit appropriation           2          2         2           2
T.1rite-offs of preliminary
expenses                     1          1         1           1
Reserve fund                 -_-                             --
Dividend                   1,6)49     1,04)4     19,51      1,965
Total Profits    1,652      1,8g47    1,59 )4     1,_9G6
SOURCE: Annual reports of thie  RC.






ANMEX ii
Tj'ABLL 4
SELECTED ASSETS AND LIABILITIES o0 BANKS IN INJDIL
(in crores of rupees)
---December 31-----
1 9 6 6          1 9 6 7
All Scheduled Commercial Banks
Deposits
Demand                                         1,579.7           1,742.1
Time                                            1,796.6          1,974.9
3,376.3          3,717.0
Advances                                        2,432.7          2,689.9
Investments                                      954.7             999.9
3,387.4          3,689.8
State Bank of India 1/
Deposits
Demand                                            341.5            377.6
Time                                             325.1             379.1
666.6            756.7
Advances                                          515.3            580.7
Investments                                       252.8            265.7
768.1            846.4
Subsidiary Banks of the State Bank
of India
Denosits
Demand                                             06.5             99.6
Time                                              139.7            143.5
226.2            243.1
Advances                                          127.2            159.6
Investments                                        62.3             64.1
1L;9.5           223.7
1/ Amounts are exclusive of amounts related to interbank transactions
and therefore differ from gross amounts o'f Tables 5 and 6.
SOURCE: N'ionthly review1 of the State Bank of India, January 1968.






AIMEX 11
TABLE 5
THE STATE :A1lK OF INDIA
Indices of GroTwth
(sAounts in crores of Rupees)
1955      1960       1965       1966       1967
Number of offices           407       907       1.276      1.388      1.468
lummber of employees     14.682    24.664      37.996     45.192     48.884
Paid-up capital and
reserves               11.98     13.08       16.19      16.95      17.85
Deposits
FEixed deposits        33.90    312.81      291.54     358.67     398.22
Savings bank deposits  27.93     41.84      102.96     120.94     139.60
Current accounts      164.16    221.67      340.62     396.37     421.10
Total Deposits        225.99    576.32      735.12     875.98     958.92
Advances                105.81    232.24      4Ao.22     540o.68    595.50
Credit-deposit ratio
(percentage)           46.8      40.3        65.5       o1.7       62.1
Investments             116.97    299.71      264.45     291.82     310.75
Financial Assistance to the Rural Sector
(Rupees in Crores)
Sanctioned Limits      Outstanding
Dec. 1966   Dec.T17        Dec. 1967
Advances
Cooperatives                             59.9        61.7           10.1
State Governments                        66.0        44.4           17.0
Food Corporation of India                 4.9        10.0            6.7
Advances against warehouse receipt        3.8         4.8            0.9
Agriculture                               L.8         6.6            4.6
Total                                 139.4       127.5           39.3
Investments                               December 1966   December 1967
Investm,ents in debentures of coop. banks       13.5           16.9
Investment in shares of Central Ware-
housin- Corporation                            1.0            1.0
14.5           17.9
Source: State Bank of India - Annual Report






ANNEX 11
TABLE 6
STATE BAIK 0Oi INDIA
Condensed Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1963-1967
(in '000 rupees)
1963      1964      1965       1966      1967
Assets
Cash in hand & banks     536,132    776,572   793,351   764,773   924,716
Investments            2,834,857 2,630,882 2,644,463 2,918,249 3,107,527
Advances                2,901,551 3,930,430 4,812,193 5,406,832 5,955,010
Bills for collection
per contra              96,686     61,691    67,48o   118,787    85,859
Clients' liabilities for
acceptance, endorse-
ments & other obliga-
tions per contra       178,056    195,562   263,965   325,097   243,642
Premises less deD-
reciation               21,067     24,986    33,677    48h,187   58,113
i'urniture & fixture
less depreciation       16,460     20,068    28,299    35,148    50,391
Other assets             120,955    148,354   161,770   186,209   253,509
Total Assets           6,705,764 7,788,545 8,805,198 9,003,282 1:,676,767
Liabilities
Paid-in capital 1/         56,250    56,250    56,250    56,250    56,250
Reserves                   93,000    99,000   105,600   113,200   122)200
Integration & dev. fund    35,618    38,261    37,801    29,675    12,319
Deposits & other
accounts             5,943,998 6,590,473 7,351,216 8,759,761 9,589,233
Borrowings from other
banks and agents          7,240   412,105   182,217    53,842    73,751
Bills payable             91,207     91,550    88,939   121,986    4O,928
Bills ior collection
per contra               96,686    61,691    67,480   110,767    85,859
Other liabilities         200,158   240,909   651,236   224,135   454,036
Acceptances, endorse-
ments & other obli-
gations per contra     178,056    195,562   263,965   325,097   243,642
Profit & loss              3,551      2,744       493       549       549
Total Liabilities      6,705,764 7,788,545 8,805,197 9,803,232 L,678,767
1/   Authorized capital 20,000 shares of 100 each.
SOURCE: Annual reports of the SBI.






TABLE 7
STATE BA.NK OF INDIA
Profit and Loss Accounts
(in '000 rupees)
1964      1965      1966      1967
Income
Interest & discount                    232,032   343,912   425,622   500,49j'
Commission, exchange & brokerage        74,687    90,025   109,864   142.,-Lk)
Rents                                      488       477       436       136
Other profits                            3,009     5,443    10,763    16,873
Total Income         310,216   439,857   546,685   659,8',;
Expenditure
Interest paid on deposits, borrowings  112,073   191,955   247,384   272,327
Salaries, allowances & provident fund  131,530   166,767   203,941   274,661
Director's & local board members' fees
& allowances                             104       131       115       119
Rent, taxes, in,uran". lighting         10,367    12,492    15,876    19,1)47
Law charges                                319       291       447      t41
Postage, telegrams, stamps               5,112     6,062     6,788     7, L.i
Auditors' fees                             100       125       125       12,
Depreciation on & repairs to Bank's
property                               3,552     4,272     5,815     7,1'-`1
Stationery, printing, advertisement      6,553     9,578    10,766    11,1Cc
Other exoenditures                      10,975    15,184    17,494    22,9'32
Total Expenditure    280,685   406,857   508,751   615,556
Profit                                  29,531    33,000    37,934    44,3&L
Total Expenditure & Profits    310,216   439,857   546,685   659,657
Appropriation of Profits
Dividends                                                   12,938    12,$F4
Reserve fund                                                 7,600     9,0CO
Pension, provident & welfare funds &
bonus                                                     17,339    22:
Carried forward                                                549
38,427   )44,2>
S3OUJRCE: Annual reports of the SBI.






ANNEX 12
INDIA - TARAI SEEDS PROJdET
TARAI DEVELOP15ENT CORPORATION
CASh FLOW PROJECTION
(Es '000)
1%69/7Z6/   1970/71    1971/72     1972/73    1973/7b    1974/75     1975/76    1976/77     1977/78   1978/79    1 979/80    1980/81    1981/82     1982/83    19B3/8h
A. INVEZTAhzT
Cost (see Ann a 9)                                   18,810         -         3,bbO
Fin.acod by: Eqity .sl -np 1/                         9,000         -        I,000
Cepit.lized profits                         -           _        2,b40
Losn (SBI)                                9,810
B.   PE"TIONS
Cash Inlow   Sa1e of ctified seed                   19,200      43.500     61,LOO      67,h00     68,100      64,800     65,700     66,800      66,800    66,800     62,1oo      62,600     62,.00      62,1.0     62,b00
Sale of re.eoted seed 2/                   500       2,200      3,100       3,200      3,200      3,200       3,200      3,200      3,200      3,200      3,200       3,200      3,200       3,200      3,200
Deposits cn foundation seed by far rs 3/   900       1,200      1,300      1,400      1,400      1,b00      1,b0o       1,400      1,4oo      1,400      1.b00       1.100      1 bOO     1,4bOo      l.bOo
Total                   20,600      16,900     65,800     72,000      72,700     69,.00      70,300     71,.00     71,400     71,.00     67,0o0      67,000     67,000     67,000      67,000
Cash Outflo-  Foundation seed                         6,000       7,800       S,500      8,800      8,800      8,800       8,800      8,800       8,800     8,800      8,800       8,800      8,800       8,800      8,800
Field inaspction                           590         750        930       1,000      1,000      1,000       1,000      1,000      1,000      1,OOo      1,OOD       1,000      l,O00       1,000      1,OOo
Mas.i de-teseling                          1.00        410        640        760         760        760         760        760        760        760        760         760        760         780        760
First paymoete to farwevs                9,600      26,900     37,700      40,700     .1,loo     .1,600      12,100     b2,900     1.2,900    12,900      b2,900     42,900     b2,900      h2,900      190
Proceasing/Jarlotig cot                  1,440       3,180      6,110      4,430       4,4bO      4,b90       b,530      b,600      4,600      b,600      b,600       4,600      6,600       4,600      4,600
Rent 4/                                    150         150        150        150         150        150         150        150        150        150        150         150        150        150         150
Total                   18,180      39,220     52,030      55,8bo     56,250     56,800      57,310     58,210     58,210     58,210     58,210      58,210     58,210      58,210     58,210
Net Oerating Inosue                      2,b20       7,680      13,770     16,160     16,450     12,600      12,960     13,190      13,190    13,190       8.790      8.790      8.790       8,790      8,790
Financial Costs,
Working Capital Interest (S8I)             790       1,780      2,060       1,920      1,570       1,220      1,070        920         730       550        360         270        170          80         80
(8.5S) i/
Interest m 58I loan (8.5%)                 650         810)     2 h0        2,h90      2,b9     O       2,h9D
SBI loan prindipal rep<nyt-                            -         ,
Total                    1,440       2,620      6,550      4,.10       6,060      3,710       3,560       920        730        550        360         270        170          8C          80
Not Ienae After Debt Serics; Berore Teas                980       5,060       9,220     11,750     12,390       8,890      9,h00     12,270     12,b60    12,6bO       8,430      8,520       8,620      8,710       8,710
- for which a possible distribatin is.-
Appropriated to Working Capital Reser,- (a)            500       3,700       4,400       1,o00     1,100       2,200      2,200       2,200      2,200      2,200      1,100      1,OZo       1,100       -           -
For other wes (tax; diidends; veaoed prants
to fr.e; r-inrsee      t; etc.)                      h80       1,360       h,820      7,350      7,990       6,690      7,200      10,070     10,260     10,bh0      7,330      7,420       7,520      8,710       8,710
C. FILANCIAL RIT!N ON CAPITAL D(PFIWDT (25 PacsmT)
In et. t                                             18,10C        -          3,660       -          -           -          -           -               -          -           -          -                -           -
BNald_p of Wowking Capital Hequireonet                9,300      12,100       7,050      2,700        300         330        420        630        -         -           -          _           _          _           _
Capital Eaployed                        28,110      12,100     10,490       2,700        300        330         b20        130
Net Operating Inoe                                    2,120        7,680     13,770     16,160      16,650     12,600      12,960     13,190     13,190     13,190      8,790       8,790      8,790       8,790      8,790
Net Flow                               (25,690)     (b,420)      3,280     13,b60     16,150      12,270     12,510      12,760     13,190    13,190       8,790      8,790       8,790      8,790       8,790
1/ 200,000 equity shares and 50,000 preferenoe shares of Rs. 100/- each, of which only R, 10 million are espected ti be called.
2/ Bi-product of aeed proo.ssing, sold as cosroial grain.
fsrueos purchase foundation seed fron TDC at rulIng prices for certified seed only.
/L d for ths two proessing factories.
As.a.es ppr-priatlone to a Working Capital Reserve at the rate Ledicated at (o),
6/ A certain aount of the TDC in-est,ent coat (consultoot services and pre-productlo. udmi.lstrati  espeases) might be itcorred Io 1968/60.






INDIA - TARAI S&ZDS PROJECT                                                                 ArNESX 13
CASH FLOW AND FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN ON ADDITIONAL INVESTKENT
FOR 100 ACRE PORTION OF FARM DEVELOPED FOR SEED PRODUCTION
1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983'84
INVESTMENT
Land 9iirvey                             -       2,500     -       _        _        -        _       _        -        -   -        -        -            -        -        -
Land Levelling                                  -      18,750   18,750  22,500     _        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -     (60,0oo)
Tubewell Installation                           -      22,000     -       -
Irrigation Distribution Sy3tem                  -      13,250   13,250  15,900   10,600                                            -        -            -        -
Fanr  Machinery                                 -     100,000     _          _              _        _     23,000     -        -      53^F000    -       -        _        -     (26 5T)
Total                                      -     156,500   32,000  38,400   10,600     -        _     23,000     -        -      53,OOO    _-                        -     (86,500)
FINANCED BY        1
StaNaCED   of IndiaB 1                          -     118,200   25,600 30,700     8,500     _-                                                   - _  _  _  _
Farmer                                          -      38,300    6,400  7,700     2,100     -        -     23,000                     53,000    - -               -        -     (86,500)
CASH FLOW             2/
Income from Seed Sales-                      34,500    45,200   91,700 104, 100  134,200  134,600  134,600 134,600  134,600 134,600  134,600  134,600  134 600 134,600  134,600  134,600
Income from commercial crops                161,900   128 200   98 100 103, 800  114,100  125,1400  125,1400 125.1400  125,400 125,400  125,400  125,1400  125,400 125,400  125,400  125.400
Sub-Total                              196,400   173,1400  109,OU 207,900  2   30    2b0,000  260,000  600    2,0000,000        260,00   260,000  260,002S0,0      2bO,OD0  260,000
Less direct operating costs                 110,700   104 100  101 700 101,700  112,600   112,600  112,600 112,600 112,600  112,600  112,600  112,600  112,600  112,600 112,600  112,600
Direct Operating Surplus                h5,700    69,300   66,100 106,200  135,700   147,400 147,400 17,400 147,400 147,4100 1147,4100 147,L,     00      lb L7,h,0 1470    1T,400
Less farmers' contribution to investment        -      38,300    6,400  7.700     2.100     -        -     23.000     _        -      53         -        - _              -     (86L500)
65,700    31,000   o1,700  98;500  133;600   147,400  147,400 124400 10        17,400    94400 147,400 3  14,7,400 147,00 147,400   233,900
Less (i) debt service on SBI investment
loans                                  -      10,800   23,700 27,800    35,000    41,000   31,500  22,000  22,000   22,000   22,000     -        -        -       -        -
(ii) interest on short-tenm fertiliser
credit                               1,000     1,700    1,700  1,700     2,000     2,000    2,000   2,0D0    2,000   2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000   2,000    2,000
Net Surplus                             84,700    18,500   56,30  69,000    96,60o   101,LOO 113,900 loo,L4o 123,400 123,40o    l0,boo 145,400 1L45,100 114oo 115,4oo 231,900
Incremental net surplus (deficit)
compared to 1968/69                       _      (66,200) (28,1400)(15,700)  11,900   19,700   29,200  15,700  38,700   38,700  (14,300) 60,700    60,700  60,700   60,700  147,200
Financial Rate of Return on Additional Investment ( 16 percent
Total Investment                               -      156,500   32,000 38,400    10,600     -        -      23,000    -        -      53,000     -        _        _       _     (86,500)
Incremental direct operating surplus (deficit)  -     (16,400)   2,L00 20,500   50,000    62,600   62,600  62,600  62,600   62,600   62,600   62,600   62,600  62,600   62,600   62,600
Net Flow                                  -     (172,900) (29,600)(17,900)  39,400    62,600   62,600  39,600   62,600  62,600    9,600   62,600   62,600   62,600   62,600  19lo100
1/ 50 percent of lTd development items except surrey; 75 percent of farm machinery.
-/ First payments from TDZ only.






ANNEX lb
FIM TA - TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
_CONOMIC RETURN CALCULATf0ON
(R. '000)
1969/74'/ 1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/7b    197L/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1079/80    1930/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/81
A. pROJECT BENEFlTS
Value of seed production, sold by TDCO              19,200    43,500    61i,oo    67,b00    68,100    6b,800    65,700     66, 800   66,800    66,800    62, boo   62,1o,     62,boo    62, o0    62, Loo
Value of cceecrcla1 produce, sold by TC-21/            500     2, 200    3,100     3, 200    3,200     3,200     3,200      3,200     3,200     3,200     3, 200    3,200      3,200     3, 200    3,200
Value of cose,rmial produce, sold by
favours 3/                                        68,800    62,500    58,200    61,100    70,700     77,b,oo   77,b0oo   77,1OO    77,boo    77,1OO    77,o00     77,boo    77,0OO    77,b00    77,,00
Total Benefits                          88,500   108,200   122,700   131,700   1l2,000   1L5,0oo    l16,300   117,00    117,1,00  17,1,00    b,03,000  143,000   11,3,000  11,000    113,000
Le.s estlmated valuo of production,
.ithout the proJect                               90,900   103,100   108.100   108,100    108.100  106.o0     io6.oo    1.,00     io6,00    16,bOO    lob,600    10600     ioh.6o0   10b,600  1io,600
TotAl Incromont.o Beosfit.              (2,1o,)      100    14,600    23,600    33,900     39,000    39,900   Il1,000    b1,000    1,1ooo    38,,00    38,10OO    38,LOO    38,boo    38,b00
B. PROJECT CoSrS
Processing facilitie. invest.mnt                    18,bTO       -       3,1,00                                         -          -         -         -                                             -
Land levelling by cortractors                        5,5oo     5,800     b,oO      1,80oo     (5oo)/                         _-                                                                  (21,000)
Laod lerelling by farmers                              100       100       100       100       -         -         -         -         -          -         -          -        -          -        (b0o)
Tbeuwll construction                                   950     1,1,30    1,660     1,660       180
Irrigation distribution investoent                   2,880     1,320     5,280     5,280     1,920
F-ro machinerr                                      13,800    18,100     9,200     1,600       -                            3,170     1,230     2,120     8,370      9,750     b,880     2,L1O    (17,190)
State Electricity Board                              b,060       51o      630        61o       180                           -         -          -         -          -
Or.oud surveys                                         l10       310       310       100       -                   -               -        -          -
Total Imestrlnt Costs                   46,170    30,900    25,310    17,180     2,080       -                  3,170     1,230     2,120     8,370     9,750      b,880     2,110   (11,890)
Foo,ndatloo seed (provided by TDC)                   6,ooo     7,800     8,5oo     8,800     8,800      8,800     8,800     8,800     8,800     8,800     8,800     8,800      8,800     8,800     8,800
Direct processing coets (by TDC)                     1,11O     3,180     ,l1lo     b,b30     1,11o      b,b9o     b,530     1,600     1,600     1,600     1,600      1,600     L,600     1,600     1,600
Field inspection (by TDC)                              600       800       900     1,000     1,000     1,0oo      1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000     1,o00     1,000
Detas.eling (by TDC)                                   0oo 0      oo       600       800       800       800        800       800       800       800       800        800       800       800       0oo
Far-ers' costs for seed production                  13,900    16,1o0    19,,00    21,000    21,000     21,000    21,000    21,000    21,000    21,000    21,300     21,000    21,000    21 000    21,000
Faroars' costs for other crop                       35,000    30,100    25,700    21,600     27,300    28,600    28.600    28,600    28,600    28,600     28,600    28,600    28,600    28,600     28,600
State Bank of Lndie                                    150       200       200       200       200       200        200       200       200       200       200       200        200       200       200
rowai operating Costs                   57,490    58,880    59,1l10   60,830    63,5ho   S6,890      61,931    65,ooo    65,ooo    65,ooo    65,000    65,0oo     65,000    65,000    65,0oo
Total Costs                            103,660    89,780    8h,790    78,010    65,620     6b,890    61,930    68,170    69,230    67,120     73,370    71,750    69,880    67,11O     23,110
I0Sg SstlrLaed cost of production,
without the proJect f7,boo                                  58,100    58,L00    58,100     58,Loo    58,1oo    58,1oo    58,boo    58,0oo    58,b00     58,1oo    58,1o0    58,100    58,1oo     58,L00
octal Increo-tal Costs                  56,260    n,380     26,390    19,610     7,220     6,b00     6,530      9,770    10,830     8,720    1L,970    16,350     11,180     s,o0o    (35,290)
C. BKT llRIKWTAL BMrs (CosTS)
DUE TO PROE0CT                                  (58.660)   (31,280)  (11,7O0)   3.0Q0     26,680    32,510    33.379    31,230     37,170    32.280    23,130    22.050    26,920    29,361     73,690
ITSrRNAL RATE OF 01ETURN: 17 PERCENT
l/ FOR processing factory. As,umes L pmrcet loss On storage, stc.)  Value of +heut products sold by TD' 1, only
7/ At local market place.                                       ) realized ic year focllowing field prod-,ti on.
J/ At local -arket place.
T/ Includes approc. Rs. 2.1 r.1111cc  f resid-ul land-le-elling vnch1rny.
/ Smne minor evpendituues (o. TDC consaltant servIces, TOC pre-prod-ction adsiistrnti-e espenses and on-farm sur-eys) might take place ic 1963/69.






7B°45'                      79°00                     79 15'                   79-30                     79-45'
INDEX MO POWER GRID
-ESTING .                                                                         INDIA-TARAI SEEDS                          PROJECT 
E ISTNG                                                                                                 INDEX
_____PRCVI;CIAL BOUNDARISE      TAPAI BELT AND PROJECT AREA ROUNDARY
- -  - -ECO1DAFI   ROAS  _ _ __________POSERATION  SEED  PROCESSING  PLANT
R-__AIN   ROADS              -     -Fl %TTNG SE--) P'YOCES'EENG PLANT
l EAILWAYS                    ROP.S ED PROJECT SEES DROCESS.NL
I E_                                                            _ _ _ _ _ __._   __*_           _v_     _t__NTER_ATIC4AL  30UNDARY  PLANT
-29-30'                                                                  2~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1R  37
SJ ASPA 
ANTRACI~~~~~~~~~~~CC#
-,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ z--g
K~~~~~~~~~~~Af
..-....  *1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
91 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  KICl 
79'E                     7519               .A R E I,
JANEANE 1959                                                                                                                                         IR  22F



