y        ~   ~RESTRICTED -0
FLE COPY                          TRIC 
Report No. P708
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INDIA
FOR THE TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
May 28, 1969



REPORT AND RECOY4MENDATIOi'! OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA FOR THE
TARAI SEEDS PROJECT
1.        I submit the followfing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$13.0 million to
India.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Bank and the Association have contributed to the financing
of nine projects in the agricultural sector in India (including two multi-
purpose projects) with loans and credits totalling some US$97 million, net
of cancellations. Apart from two early loans by the Bank, one in 1949 for
land clearance and the other in 1953 for irrigation, the main lending for
agriculture was a group of six credits totalling about uS$55 million (net
of cancellations) made by the Association in 1961 and 1962 as part of the
Bank Group's contribution towiards financing of the Third Plan.
3.        The loan I am now proposing would be the first financing any-
where by the Bank Group in the field of seed production. The development
of a seeds industry is of vital importance to India's new agricultural
strategy. The Government has been aware of the importance of improved
seeds for some time and there are a number of good seed research and
development centers in India. Nevertheless seeds of high-yielding food-
grain varieties have become available only in very recent years. A
National Seeds Corporation has been active since 1962 and a Seeds Act
regulating the industry was passed in 1966.
4.        The possibilities of the Tarai region of Uttar Pradesh State as
a center for a seed production project were first brought to the attention
of the Bank Group through the efforts of the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural
University and its Vice-Chancellor. The project in its present form devel-
oped as a result of two missions in 1966 and 1967 under the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program. The project was appraised by a mission in April and
May 1968.  The continued uncertainty regarding IDA replenishment has made
it necessary to consider the project for Bank financing, so that it will
not be delayed further.
5.        Negotiations took place in Washington in 'November and December
1968.  Representing the Borrower were rlessrs. G. V. Ramakrishna (Deputy
Secretary, Ministry of Finance), D. P. Singh (Vice-Chancellor, Uttar
Pradesh Agricultural University), S. M. H. Burney (Joint Secretary, Depart-
ment of Agriculture) and J. S. Varshneya (State Bank of India).



-2-
6.        Since negotiations,. some steps toward project implementation
have taken place.  The Tarai Development Corporation (see paragraph 16
below) has beeni incorporated, and after consultation with the Bank a
Managing Director has been appointed.  Subscription of initial share
capital has begun.
7.        The Bank has made 36 loans in India, including 30 which are fully
disbursed. The .-ssociation has made 22 credits to India, including 17 which
are fully disbursed. The status of Bank loans and IDA credits in India as
of April 30, 1969, is summarized as folloiTs:
Active                                           Amount (US $ Million)
Loans/Credits                                        (Less cancellations)
Nurnber Year   Borrower    Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
14     1961     India     Salandi Irrigation             7.5         .2
307     1961     IISCo     Coal Mining            19.5               6.4
19     1962     India     Durgapur Pow,Yer              16.8         .7
24     1962     India     Koyna Power II                17.5        4.1
27     1962     India     Bombay Port                   16.2        3.1
414     1965     ICICI     Industry VI            50.0              25.9
416     1965     India     Power Transmission     58.0              28.0
417     1965     India     Kothagudem Power II    14.0               2.3
89     1966     India     Beas Equipment                23.0       12.9
456     1966     IISCO     Balancing Scheme       30.0              28.8
515     1967     ICICI     Industry VII           25.0              25.0
Loans/Credits fully disbursed                    810.7  929.1
Total                                          1,007.2 1,010.1
of wlhich has been repaid to
Bank and others                               382.7
Total now outstanding                            624.5
Amount sold                     109.7
of which has been repaid      103.8              5.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   618.6 1,010.1
Total undisbursed                                116.4   21.0      137.4
8.        There have been delays in disbursement on several Bank and IDA
financed projects in India. Under the Power Transmission Project (Loan
No. 416-ii), the Bank has received satisfactory revised financial under-
takings fron all State Electricity Boards and, as agreed by the Executive
Directors (R69-48, March 10, 1969), the Closing Date !wTill be postponed
until December 31, 1970. We continue to give very close attention to the



- 3 -
situation of the Indian Iron and Steel Company (Loans Nos. 307-IN and
456-IN), wjhere various difficulties have considerably delayed both
projects. In the case of the Bombay Port Project (Credit No. 27-IN),
an end-use mission in February 1969 reported that although work was
slightly behind the revised schedule, disbursements should be completed
by the revised Closing Date of July 31, 1970. The industrial recession
resulted in a slower rate of disbursement by ICICI than expected (Loans
Nos. 414-IN and 515-IN), but in recent months commitments have risen
noticeably.
9.        IFC has made ten commitments in India totalling $33.5 million,
of wqhich $2h.6 million represent loans and $8.9 million equity. As of
April 30, 1969, $13.6 million had been disbursed. The largest commitment,
not yet effective, is a total of $15.9 million to Zuari Agrochemicals for
a fertilizer plant in Goa. A number of other industrial schemes are
currently under consideration, with particular emphasis on new fertilizer
projects.
10.       Bank Group lending in the agricultural sector is expected to
increase during the next few years. An agricultural credit reconnaissance
mission visited India in NTovember and December 1968, and an irrigation
reconnaissance mission visited India in January and February 1969 to identify
projects suitable for Bank Group financing. The reports of these missions
have been reviewed, and were discussed, along with a wide range of policy
issues, at a series of meetings between Bank staff and representatives of
the Government of India, in New Delhi in April. An irrigation project on
the Kadana River in Gujarat State was appraised in May, and several other
projects are scheduled for appraisal over the next fewT months. A third
telecommunications project for $55 million also will be presented to the
Executive Directors in June, and a tenth railway project for about $35
million has been appraised and should be ready for consideration by about
August. Several other projects are in various stages of preparation.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
11.       Borrower:         India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:    Project area farmers.
Purpose:          On-farm improvements, installation of seed
processing plants and other developments
necessary for production of certified seeds
of high-yielding varieties of foodgrains.
Amount:           US$13.0 million.



- 4 -
Amortization:       In 30 years including a 10 year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning June 15, 1979 and ending
June 15, 1999.
Interest Rate:      6-1/2I
Commitment Charge:   3/h of l,d per annum on the undisbursed amount
of the loan.
Relending Terms:    $9.0 million of loan proceeds wjould be relent
through Agricultural Refinance Corporation
and State Bank of India to farmers and others
for periods of five to ten years w-ith interest
at 8-1/2 to 9%'.
PART III - TI-E PROJECT
12.       An appraisal report on the proposed project, entitled "Tarai
Seeds Project" (TO-689a) is attaclhed.
13.       In recent years there has been a major change in the Government
of India's development priorities. In particular, since 1965/66 there has
been newT emphasis on agriculture, prompted by two bad harvests, the result-
ing balance of payments drain to pay for food imports, and a desire to
achieve self-sufficiency in food production. The new strategy of develop-
ment is centered around provision of modern inputs. There is heavy stress
on stepped-up availability of fertilizer and high-yielding seed, accompa-
nied by efforts to improve water availability and water use; all of which
facilitates multiple cropping. There is also emphasis on strengthening
credit institutions.
1h.       I attach considerable importance to the support by the Bank Group
of this new agricultural strategy. There can be no doubt that some pro-
gressive farmers have taken up the new technology eagerly and made impres-
sive progress; nevertheless, a significant lag exists between the high
yields already achieved by a few farmers, and the increases yet to be
achieved by others. Recent achievements need to be consolidated, and
there are still formidable obstacles to be overcome. India's development
prospects will depend on continued progress in the agricultural sector
and, in the first instance, on the speed /.ith which self-sufficiency in
staple food is reached. Clearly, improvements in the agricultural sector
will have a favorable impact on India's balance of payments.



15.       The Tarai Seeds Project would contribute to increased agricultural
production through the supply of certified seeds of high-yielding foodgrain
varieties. The project would develop about h6,o00 acres of land in the Tarai
belt of Uttar Pradesh State, which at project completion should produce each
year enough certified seeds of high-yielding foodgrain varieties to sow over
two million acres each of rice and wheat and over three million acres of other
foodgrains.
16.       Implementation of the project would rest largely with the Tarai
Development Corporation (TDC), established for the purpose, in association
with the State Bank of India (SBI) and the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural
University (UPAU). TDC is a private corporation, which includes among its
shareholders project area farmers, the UPAU, and the National Seeds Corpora-
tion. TDC would organize production of raw seed by farmers, provide seed
processing facilities, and market clean seed. UPAU would provide extension
services including preparation of the farm development plans to be used as
bases for loan agreements between farmers and SBI.
17.       SBI would make credit available to TDC, farmers, contractors, and
the State Electricity Board, using for this purpose its own funds and the
major portion of the proposed Bank loan, which wiould be relent by GOI to
SBI through the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC).
18.       Total investment costs for the project are estimated at US$18.4
million equivalent (including contingencies), of which the Bank would
finance US$9.0 million equivalent (49 percent). In addition, it is proposed
as an exceptional measure that the Bank finance the estimated US$4 million
equivalent cost (including contingencies) of imported fertilizers required
for project purposes over five years. Adequate fertilizer dressings are
essential for the seed crops, and India is currently short of fertilizer,
importing about twice as much as it produces. It is expected that by project
completion indigenous production will be more adequate to the country's
needs, but during this transitional period some special assistance to meet
fertilizer requirements on individual high-priority projects seems justified.
Total costs of the project would therefore be US$22.4 million equivalent, of
wihich the Bank would finance US$13.0 million (58 percent).
19.       The remaining investment costs would be financed by the SBI, by
TDC investors, by farmers other than as TDC investors, and by authorized
dealers in farm machinery.
20.       The principal benefit arising from the project is the provision
of sufficient certified seed to the Indian economy to service about seven
million acres annually - a benefit difficult to quantify under diverse
conditions of planting; howrever, even on the conservative assumption that
the economic value of the seed produced is equal only to the price at which
it wa.ould be sold, the return to the economy of the proposed investment
is estimated at about 17 percent per annum.



- 6 -
21.       Procurement would be in accordance with international competi-
tive bidding procedures with a domestic preference of 15 percent or the
prevailing level of customs duty whichever is lower, for the following
goods: (a) agricultural machinery (other than tractors) purchased in
bulk by TDC for seed growers; (b) the supply and installation of seed
processing equipment; and (c) land levelling machinery for contractors.
International competitive bidding procedures with no local procurement
would be followed for bulk purchase of fertilizers. With a few minor
exceptions, the applicable level of customs duties for items to be pro-
cured under international competitive bidding is currently 15 percent.
22.       Other items are not suitable for international competitive
bidding procedures, and would be procured as explained in paragraph 4.21
of the Appraisal Report. In particular, farm tractors would be procured
by TDC which would negotiate the best possible prices for makes and
models preferred by farmers and for which satisfactory servicing and spare
parts facilities are or can be made available. Farm trailers would be
procured directly by farmers from among the several suitable locally
manufactured models.
23.       The US$h4.o million to finance fertilizer imports would be dis-
bursed against import documentation. Of the US$9.0 million to finance
investment items, about US$7.6 million (for consultant services, and land
levelling, farm and seed processing machinery) would be disbursed against
import documentation for imported items or against other appropriate docu-
mentation in the case of local procurement. The remaining US$1.4 million
would be disbursed as a percentage of the loans made by SBI, to be set
initially at 11 percent.
24.       The outcome of procurement procedures will determine the exact
foreign exchange cost of the project. If all equipment open to inter-
national procurement procedures is purchased externally, the total foreign
exchange costs would be about US$12.1h million equivalent, leaving US$0.6
million equivalent from the Bank loan to finance local currency expenditure.
The amount of local currency financing wiould be increased to the extent that
local firms are able to supply agricultural equipment at competitive prices.
25.       The needs of the Indian economy for external capital will continue
to be large even with the effort India is making to increase savings. Agri-
culture is of key importance, and by financing agriculture the Bank Group
can play an important part in India's development. The direct imports needed
by most agricultural projects are low, and in these circumstances an effective
contribution by the Bank Group to Indian agriculture may involve considerable
local expenditure financing. I believe therefore that the Bank should be
prepared to undertake such financing on high-priority agricultural projects
such as the one presently proposed.



PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUNENTS AND AUTHORITY
26.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and the Tarai Development Corporation,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the State Bank of India,
the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
27.       The following provisions of the draft Loan Agreement are of
special interest:
(a) Section 5.o2 contains commitments by India with regard
to the granting of import licenses, provision of foreign exchange and
allocation of locally produced materials required for the project.
(b) Paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 7.01 specify as con-
ditions of effectiveness the submission of undertakings from the Uttar
Pradesh State Electricity Board and the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural
University setting forth their obligations with respect to the project.
(c) Schedule 4 sets forth the procedures for the procurement
of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan and includes the
methods of comparing bids for contracts for the supply of certain types
of equipment in order to effectuate the preference in favor of domestic
suppliers (paragraphs 3 and 4).
28.       The draft Project Agreement with Tarai Development Corporation
sets forth that company's obligations with respect to the project and
contains other provisions usual for agreements with private business
enterprises.
29.       The Schedule to the draft Project Agreement with State Bank of
India sets forth the procedures and policies to be followed by State Bank
of India in making various types of loans for purposes of the project.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
30.       A report on the economic situation in India was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 28, 1969 (R69-75).
31.       The proposed loan would be the first by the Bank to India since
September 1967. India's debt servicing position remains difficult, and
it is expected that a net inflow of new funds on concessionary terms will
be necessary for some years. However, given the current rate of repayment
of existing Bank loans and the expected phasing of disbursements, the



- 8 -
proposed loan would not increase beyond prudent limits the level of the
Bank's net investment in India. The amriount of loans to India held by the
Bank on April 30, 1969, net of repayments, was $619 million, of which
about 1,116 million was still to be disbursed. In addition the Bank held
on that date a special deposit of $P15 million, which is expected to be
liquidated by March 1970.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE IITH ARTICLES OF AGREE4ENT
32.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOM1iENDATION
33.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachmen-ts
May 28, 1969



