CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 372 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 18, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 372 CE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
BETWEEN
THE REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 18, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 18, 1973, between the REPUBLIC OF SRI
LANKA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Ceylon Electricity Board with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the said Board the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Ceylon Electricity Board;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to   Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Cond!*ions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "The Board" means the Ceylon Electricity Board, a statutory authority
established pursuant to the Ceylon Electricity Board Act;


﻿4
(b)   "The Ceylon Electricity Board Act" means the Ceylon Electricity
Board Act, No. 17 of 1969;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and
the Board of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement; and
(d)   "Joint Scheme" means any joint scheme for the generation of electrical
energy, the irrigation of land, the control of floods or other like purposes as referred
to in Section 12(1) of the Ceylon Electricity Board Act.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.


﻿5
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 1983 and ending March 15, 2023, each installment
to and including the installment payable on March 15, 1993 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of the Board and such other person or persons
as he shall appoint in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
the Board to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable the Board to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall take all such action as may be necessary on its
part (including, but without limitation, all necessary authorizations) to enable the
Board to effect such adjustments in its tariffs as shall be required to comply with
the provisions of Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the Board
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 hereto.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Board shall be given
the opportunity to participate fully in the formulation of each Joint Scheme and
to enter into the same on terms and conditions consistent with the performance
by the Board of its obligations under the Project Agreement.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Board
(i)         on or prior to the commencement of each fiscal year of the
Board, an estimate of all capital expenditures to be incurred
under each Joint Scheme in respect of such year, revising the
same from time to time as necessary; and
(ii)        as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each such
year, a statement of all such capital expenditures incurred in
respect thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall take such action as may be necessary to enable
the Board to supervise and control the design, construction and operation of the
assets referred to in sub-section (d) of this Section pending their transfer to the
Board as therein mentioned and shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the
Board all data, information, facilities and other assistance required for such purpose.
(d)   The Borrower shall transfer, or cause to be transferred, to the Board
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower, the Board and the
Association all assets relating to the generation, transmission or distribution of
electricity financed under, or constructed or installed for the purpose of, or
otherwise included in any Joint Scheme entered or to be entered into by the Board,
not later than the coming into operation of such assets.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that all foreign exchange required
by the Board to repair or replace any asset to be insured by it under Section
3.01 of the Project Agreement shall be promptly made available to the Board for
such purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Board of its obligations under the Project


﻿7
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the Board
and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, and of any agency of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the Board and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by the Board of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.


﻿8
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then, at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Board shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of the Board under the Project Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Board or for the
suspension of its operations.
(c)   The Ceylon Electricity Board Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect
the ability of the Board to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations
set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Board will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the Board.


﻿9
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the
effectivene- AF the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
10.01Q, of the General Conditions:
The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Board have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Board, and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of the Board in accordance with its
terms.
Section 7.03. The date July 18, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Planning and Employment
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿10
For the Borrower:
The Secretary
Ministry of Planning and Employment
Colombo
Sri Lanka
Cable address:
SECMINPLAN
Colombo, Sri Lanka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By /s/ Neville Kanakaratne
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ I.P.M. Cargill        Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                        Dollar Equivalent)
1.    Equipment, materials and                              4,700,000
installations for the
132 kV and 33 kV
transmission systems
II.   Equipment, materials and                                700,000
installations for the 11 kV
distribution system
III.  Vehicles and service equipment                          100,000
IV.   Unallocated                                             500,000
TOTAL               6,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.


﻿12
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the extension of the electricity transmission and
distribution system in Sri Lanka and comprises:
1.   The extension of the existing 132 kV system by the construction of
approximately 90 miles of 132 kV      lines and the construction, extension,
installation and equipping of associated substations, facilities and equipment.
2.    The extension of the existing 33 kV system by the construction of
approximately 400 miles of main and spur 33 kV lines and the construction,
installation and equipping of associated substations, facilities and equipment.
3,    The extension of the existing Colombo      11 kV  system  by the
installation of substations, switchgear, transformers and associated facilities and
equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Subsidiary Loan to the Board
1.   The Borrower will lend to the Board on the terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in this Schedule an amount in various currencies equivalent to
$6,000,000, together with an amount equal to the cost of Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificates, if any, referred to in paragraph 2 hereof.
2.   The amount of each withdrawal by the Borrower from the Credit Account
will be credited to and withdrawn from a Subsidiary Loan Account to be maintained
in the currency of Sri Lanka by the Borrower on its books in the name of the
Board. Each amount withdrawn from the Subsidiary Loan Account will be the
amount in the currency of Sri Lanka equivalent to the amount in the currency
or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account valued on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rates of exchange at which such other currency or currencies are,
at the date of each withdrawal, obtainable by the Board, or, if any such other
currency is not so obtainable, at such rate of exchange as at that date as shall
be reasonably determined by the Borrower. In addition upon each withdrawal from
the Credit Account there will be credited to and withdrawn from the Subsidiary
Loan Account the cost of the Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates, if any,
acquired by the Board in respect of the amount withdrawn from the Credit Account
at the rate then prevailing. The aggregate amount withdrawn from the Subsidiary
Loan Account as aforesaid is herein referred to as the Subsidiary Loan.
3.   The Board will pay to the Borrower interest on the principal amount of
the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate
of 7-1/4% per annum.
4.   The Board shall pay to the Borrower the equivalent in the cuirency of Sri
Lanka of all amounts which the Borrower shall be obligated to pay to the
Association on account of charges for special commitments pursuant to Section
3.02 of the General Conditions.
5.   Interest and other charges will be paid in the currency of Sri Lanka
semi-annually on March I and September 1, in each year.
6.   (a) Save as the Borrower, the Board and the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Board shall repay the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan in the currency
of Sri Lanka in 34 consecutive equal semi-annual installments of principal and
interest, the first of such payments to be made on September 1, 1976.


﻿15
(b)  The Board shall have the right at any time to make prepayment of
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan without payment of premium.


