                                              Document of
                                           The WorldBank

                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 29884-GLB




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ON A

                                      PROPOSEDGRANTFROM

                      THE GLOBALENVIRONMENTFACILITYTRUST FUND

                                INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$l1MILLION

                                                   TO

                                THEUNIVERSITYOF QUEENSLAND

                                        BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA

                                            FORA GLOBAL

  CORAL REEFTARGETEDRESEARCHAND CAPACITYBUILDINGFORMANAGEMENT
                                                PROJECT

                                           AUGUST 27,2004




EnvironmentDepartment
Environmentally & Socially SustainableDevelopmentNetwork


This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipients only inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective 25 August 2004)

          CurrencyUnit = Australian Dollar
                AUS$l = US$0.7199
                   US$l = AUS$l.3891

                   FISCAL YEAR
                   2005 -- 2009

       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

A0           Administrative Officer
BML          Bolinao Marine Laboratory, Philippines
BWG          Bleaching (and LocalEcological Responses) Working Group
CMS           Centre for Marine Studies
COE          Center of Excellence
CRTR          GEF Coral ReefTargetedResearch
CWG           Connectivity (and Large-scaleEcological Processes) Working
              Group
DCCO          Dataintegration, Communication andCapacitybuildingOfficer
DWG           Disease Working Group
EO            Executive Officer
FO            Finance Officer
GEF           Global Environmental Facility
GBR           Great BarrierReef
IMS           Institute of Marine Science, Zanzibar
IOC           IntergovernmentalOceanographic Commission
MDSWG         Modeling andDecision SupportWorking Group
PDF B         Project Development Facility, Phase B Planning Grant
PEA           ProjectExecuting Agency
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
P M           Puerto Morelos
RRWG          Restorationand RemediationWorking Group
RSWG          Remote Sensing Working Group
SOP           StandardOperating Procedures
UNAM          NationalAutonomous University of Mexico (Universidad
              Nacional Aut6noma de MBxico)
UPMSI         University of Philippines, Marine Science Institute
UQ            Universityof Queensland
UNESCO        UnitedNations Educational, Scientific & Cultural Organization
WB            World Bank

         Vice President:     IanJohnson, ESDVP
        Acting Director:     James Warren Evans, ENV
         Sector Director:    Maria Teresa Serra, EASES
      Task Team Leader:      Marea Eleni Hatziolos, ENV

                                                                     FOR OFFICTAL USEONLY

                                                   WORLD
    CORAL REEFTARGETED RESEARCHAND CAPACITY BUILDING FOR MANAGEMENT
                                                  PROJECT


                                                  CONTENTS




    A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page

       1. Projectdevelopment objective                                                      2
       2. Key performance indicators                                                        2

    B. Strategic Context

       1. Sector-relatedCountry Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project      3
       2. Mainsector issuesandGovernment strategy                                           5
       3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                 6

    C. Project Description Summary

       1. Project components                                                                 6
       2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     15
       3. Benefits and target population                                                    16
       4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                      17

    D.Project Rationale

       1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                          19
       2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      19
       3. Lessons learned andreflectedinthe project design                                  23
       4. Indications ofborrower andrecipient commitment andownership                       24
       5. Value added o f Bank and Global support inthis project                            24

    E. Summary ProjectAnalysis

       1. Economic                                                                          25
       2. Financial                                                                         26
       3. Technical                                                                         26
       4. Institutional                                                                     27
       5, Environmental                                                                     29
       6. Social                                                                            30
       7. Safeguard Policies                                                                31

    F. SustainabilityandRisks

This document has a restricted distribution and may beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  1. Sustainability                                             31
  2. Critical risks                                             33
  3. Possiblecontroversial aspects                              33


G. MainGrant Conditions

  1. EffectivenessCondition                                     33
  2. Other                                                      34

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                  34

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                    34



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                 36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                           43
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                 56
Annex 4: see Annex 11  - IncrementalCostAnalysis
Annex 5:  Financial Summary                                     58
Annex 6: (A) ProcurementArrangements                            59
          (B) FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements    62
Annex 7: ProjectProcessingSchedule                              66
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                           67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                         69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                   71
Annex 11: IncrementalCost Analysis                              77
Annex 12: STAP RosterTechnical Review                           87
Annex 13: HardwiringLinks between Science andManagement         105




MAP(S)
IBRD32570
IBRD32571
IBRD32572
IBRD32573
IBRD32574

                                                    WORLD
                         CoralReefTargetedResearchandCapacityBuildingfor ManagementProject

                                       Project Appraisal Document
                                EastAsiaEnvironmentandSocialDevelopmentUnit(EASES)
                                          EnvironmentDepartment(ENV)

Date: August 27,2004                                    Team Leader: MareaEleniHatziolos
EASES Sector Director: Maria Teresa Serra               Sector(s): Generalagriculture, fishingandforestry sector
ENV Acting Director: James WarrenEvans                  (100%)
Project ID: PO78034                                     Theme@): Biodiversity(P), Other environmentandnatural
FocalArea: I InternationalWaters
                    -                                   resources management(P)




For LoanslCreditslothers:
Amount (US$m): 11.0 M




AUSTRALIA,STATEGOV. OF QUEENSLAND                                     0.00                2.60            2.60
SLOBALENVIRONMENT             - ASSOCIATED   IBRDFUND                 0.00                3.00            3.OO
SLOBALENVIRONMENTFACILITY                                             0.00               11.oo           11.oo
FOREIGNUNIVERSITIES                                                   0.00                3.20            3.20
Total:                                                                0.00               22.30           22.30
BorrowerlRecipient: THE UNIVERSITYOF QUEENSLAND,BRISBANE,AUSTRALIA
onbehalfof Mexico, Tanzaniaandthe Philippines
Responsible agency:
The Universityof Queensland
Address: Office ofthe DeputyVice-Chancellor (Research)
Brisbane, QLD4072,
AUSTRALIA
Contact Person: Prof.DavidSiddle
Tel: 61-7-3365-9044                  Fax: 61-7-3365-9040             Email: w.freeman@research.uq.edu.au
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):

         Annual      2.20     2.50      2.40  I    2.40       1s o
Cumulative           2.20     4.70      7.10  I    9.50     11.00
 Project implementation period: Fiveyears
 Expected effectiveness date: 12/12/2004 Expected closing date: 11/30/2009
c sPa0 6" R n Ma*Bn

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Projectdevelopmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
The Global EnvironmentObjectiveis to fill critical gaps inour global understanding o fwhat determines
coral reef ecosystem vulnerability and resilience to a range o f key stressors-from    localized human stress
to climate change--and to inform policies and management interventions on behalf o f coral reefs and the
communities that depend on them. The Project DevelopmentObjective is to align, for the first time, the
expertise and resources o f the global coral reef community around key research questions related to the
resilience and vulnerability o f coral reef ecosystems, to integrate the results, and to disseminate them in
formats readily accessible to managers and decision-makers. A related objective is to build much-needed
capacity for science-based management o f coral reefs in developing countries, where the majority o f reefs
are found.These objectives will be achieved through targeted investigations involving networks o f scientists,
in consultation with managers, and the dissemination of knowledge within and across regions to
decisionmakers.

2. Keyperformanceindicators: (see Annex 1)
The Targeted ResearchProject is being designed as part o f a long term effort that will be implemented in
phases. The initial five- year phase will support the establishment o f an applied research framework and
build capacity for science-basedmanagement of coral reefs in areas with significant coral reef resources
and Bank/GEF investments. These include sites in Mesoamerica, East Afiica, Southeast Asia, and the
South Pacific/Australasia. While the impacts o f this project are expected to be realized well beyond the five
year time frame o f the initial phase, expected outcomes include a coordinated processes to fill critical
knowledge gaps, improved capacity for science-based management o f coral reef ecosystems, and
development and uptake o f new knowledge products to enhance decision-making. Evidence o f these
outcomes would include, inter alia, new management tools inthe hands o f users, decision-support systems
to aid local decision-making, publications co-authored by developed anddeveloping country scientists and
policy briefs outlining actions to promote coral reef sustainability. These outcomes will serve as
benchmarks for the Project's long term goals, which are more effective management and informed policies
leading to the sustainability o f coral reef ecosystems. Key indicators o f project success during phase 1
include the following:

1. Formerly fragmented research efforts are coordinated and targeted for the first time around key
     sustainability themes infour coral reef regions. A coalition o f scientists andresearch institutions from
     developed and developing countries is builtto support this effort.
2. Major partners from different sectors are aligned with this initiative, building momentum toward a
     critical mass o fresources anda sustained effort.
3. Institutional and human capacity for science-based management o f coral reef ecosystems is built in
     countries where coral reefs are found
4. Research results are peer reviewed by members o f the scientific and management community and
     include knowledge products (see Box 1 in section C.2) and decision support systems relevant to
     managers andpolicymakers
5. Coral reefmanagers are empowered with knowledge and tools to make better decisions.
6. Research findings are mainstreamed into World Bank and IOC country dialogue and assistance
     strategies for countries with coral reefs.
7. Policies to protect coral reefs or mitigate impacts from key stressorsare strengthened as a result o fnew
     information.
8. Coral reef management projects          under early implementation or in preparation-many        with GEF



                                                     - 2 -

     support-incorporate   TR findings intoproject design.
9. The GEF uses results to guide future resource allocations for coral reefmanagement andas a model for
     large-scale targeted research to address cross cutting issues in Climate Change, Intemational Waters
     and Biodiversity.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy(CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: n/a Date of latestCAS discussion:n/a

The TR Project supports two main thrusts o f the Bank's Environment Strategy: (1) Improving quality o f
life, and (2) Protecting the Global Commons. Of the 184 member countries within the World Bank, over
100possess coral reefs within their national boundaries, andrely upon them as natural assets. Coral reefs
are not only global assets o f exceptional biodiversity value, they are significant dnvers o f economic growth
inthe more than 60 developing countries where they occur. Cesar et a1 2003, have calculated the net
present value o f healthy coral reefs at $800 Billion annually. This figure derives primarily from the
contribution o f reefs to (i)tourism --the fastest growing economic sector in the world and (ii)      fisheries,
whch, like tourism, is a major employer and source o f foreign exchange to many o f the Bank's clients. In
terms o f the Bank's target beneficiaries, many impoverished coastal communities depend on reefs directly
for food, livelihoods and environmental security. Coral reefs are an essential source o f nutrition, income
and subsistence for the poorest of the poor--those marginalized communities who tum to the sea as a last
resort to meet their basic needs. A major study by DFIDon Poverty and Reefs (2003) estimates that o f the
30 million small scale fishers in the developing world, most are dependent in some form on coral reefs.
More than half the protein and essential nutrients in the diet o f 400 million poor living in tropical coastal
areas is supplied by fish, the majority o f which i s marine and a large proportion o f which is dependent on
healthy reefs. Thus, from an economic growth perspective, as a source o f nutrition and and the basis o f
livelihood for millions o f the world's poor, coral reefs are closely linked to the Bank's poverty and
environment agenda. Their continued productivity andhealth should be a key objective o f natural resource
management and an essential part o f any poverty reduction strategy inthose countries where coral reefs are
found.

The Tanzania PRS and in the FY04-06 CAS emphasize the strong links between sustainable management
o f natural resources and poverty reduction. Tanzania has a large and rapidly growing coastal population
which includes two o f the four most impoverished provinces in the country. Tanzania also borders the
largest area o f shallow coral reef in East Africa (DFID 2003) and it is estimated that 93,000 coastal
dwellers in Tanzania are employed in fisheries or aquaculture. In Zanzibar alone, some 23,000 artisanal
fishers depend directly on the surrounding coral reefs for their livelihood andprotein. Tanzania is currently
preparing a $55M Marine and Coastal Environmental Management Project, with primarily IDA support,
which will benefit directly from the research and capacity buildingcomponents o f the proposed Targeted
Research (TR) initiative. Inthe Philippines, where more than 1million small scale fishers dependdirectly
on coral reefs for their livelihoods, 50% o f all animal protein consumed in the Philippines derives from
marine fisheries and aquaculture. To ensure linkages with the TR initiative, the Philippines Country Team
will be representedon an intemal Bank Working Group comprised of Task Team Leaders o f coral reef and
coastal management projects which will liase directly with the TR Project govemance structure. The
intemal Working Group will ensure that research results feed into ongoing AAA, rural and environment
sector strategies, and country dialogue (see section C3 below). In Indonesia, the launch o f a $75M
follow-on (Phase 11)Project for Coral ReefRehabilitationandManagement (COREMAP) is expected later
this year, to strengthen govemance o f Indonesia's 2.6 million ha o f coral reefs, which have the potential to
provide hundreds o f millions o f dollars annually through tourism and fishing to the Indonesian economy



                                                      - 3 -

andto directly affect the livelihoods of some 10,000 coastal communities scattered throughout Indonesia.
Links have also been built between COREMAP I1 and the TR Project to support the research and
science-based management capacity o f the former.          On the Caribbean Coast o f Mexico and Belize,
reef-based tourism is a major economic sector, and is being developed with Bank support inHonduras. The
Fisheries Sector is also a key sector in the sub-region, with nearly 300,000 people employed in fisheries
and aquaculture. The productivity of the fisheries sector (shrimp, lobster, conch, and other high valued
species) in Mexico, Belize and Honduras is directly dependent on the health o f the adjacent Barrier Reef,
the longest inthe hemisphere. The CASes inall three countries emphasize the importance o f govemance o f
natural resources to sustain rural economic growth. Here again, the TR Project is designed to link closely
with the ongoing regional project for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of the Mesoamerican Barrier
Reef System (MBRS)        -- by providing crucial information on ecosystem connectivity, larval transport,
disease, andvulnerability to ElNino events. All o f these feed directly into MBRS Project objectives, which
include improving management effectiveness o f marine protected areas, assessingthe health o f the MBRS,
andassessingresilience to climate change.

la. Global Operational strategyprogram objective addressed by the project:
Coral reef ecosystems are open and trans-boundary in nature by virtue o f the o f flow o f nutrients,
pollutants,   larvae, and adults o f migratory species across ecosystem boundaries, and often national
frontiers. Pollutants entering the system are primarily land based, emphasizing connections between
drainage basins and shallow, coastal receiving waters, where most coral reefs are found. Coral reefs are a
major feature o fLarge tropical Marine Ecosystems. They are extraordinarily diverse andgenerate an array
o f environmental goods and services which are dependent on reef integrity and the maintenance o f
ecosystem processes. Effective govemance o f transboundary aquatic resources is a hallmark o f the IW
Focal Area. The Targeted Research Project responds to the strategic priority for the Intemational Waters
Focal Area identified in the GEF FY03-FY06 Business Plan to: "Expand global coverage to other water
bodies o f cross-cutting foundational capacity buildingandinnovative demonstration projects."

Through a series o f highly integrated investigations in four coral reef regions o f the world, the TR Project
seeks to fill the most significant gaps in our global understanding o f the relationship between major
stressors and the structure and function o f coral reefs. The Project will explore the role o f ecosystem
processes such as connectivity, community dynamics and structure, inresponsesto stress, e.g., inthe form
o f differential bleaching, disease incidence and recovery to determine what factors may confer resilience
and sustainability inresponse to major forms of stress. By bridgingknowledge gaps relatedto impacts o f
climate change and localized human stress on the sustainability o f trans-boundary aquatic ecosystems, the
project fits within the Integrated Land and Water Operational Program, OP 9. However, by virtue o f its
cross-cutting investigations, which will shed light on the relationship between the effects o f climate change
on coral reef ecosystem integrity, including biodiversity and connectivity between reefs, as well as
between watersheds and aquatic ecosystems, the project will have benefits in several different focal areas
and operational programs, e.g., GEF OPs 2, 10 and 12. It may also form the basis for a study on inter
linkages and future joint program o f work between the GEF FocalAreas o f Climate Change, Intemational
Waters andBiodiversity withinthe Bank.

As noted above, the Project will support capacity building across GEF Focal Areas by creating a robust
scientific framework within developing countries to investigate the basis for ecosystem vulnerability and
resilience to climate change and localized human pressures.           Impacts on ecosystem        structure and
biodiversity will also be examined as part o f these investigations. The model for establishmg global
networks o f researchers to jointly investigate topics o f highpriority for coral reef ecosystem management,
and to link the results to policy and decision-making, is eminently transferable to other focal areas and



                                                     - 4 -

themes. This cross-cutting outcome for capacity buildingis also identified in the GEF FY03-06 Business
Plan as a priority for the thirdreplenishment phase:

..."Cross-cutting capacity building projects will support capacity building activities outside the scope o f
any one focal area but common to achieving the goals o f all focal areas. Such activities, particularly
focusing on LDCs and SIDS, will include: (i)   foundational capacity building,to establish the basic capacity
o f a country to meet its global environmental andsustainable development goals."

The joint investigations and targeted learning that result from collaborative, applied research, involving
networks o f developed and developing country scientists, will build the foundation for knowledge-based
management and policies. The research findings and cutting edge tools developed will be disseminated
periodically through a series o f management and policy briefs aimed to improve our global capacity to
manage coral reef ecosystems.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Despite their global significance as environmental and economic assets, coral reefs are in decline
worldwide. The main threats to coral ecosystem sustainability stem from localized impacts o f human
pressure and accelerated climate change. Human impacts include (i)     over-fishing and destructive fishing
techniques, which alter trophic levels and destroy the ecological integrity o f reef communities; (ii)
land-based sources o f pollution (e.g., sedimentation from deforestation and other poor land-use practices,
pesticides, eutrophication from agricultural run off andmunicipal waste, and Persistent Organic Pollutants
(POPS); (iii)   habitat loss from land reclamation and construction, (iv) marine-based threats, including
maritime transport and the cruise line industry. Impacts associated with climate change include (i)
increased sea surface temperature, sea-level rise and storm frequency and severity, and (ii)       changes in
ocean chemistry, all o fwhich undermine reef growth and the physical integrity o f coral reefecosystems.

The 1997/98 massive coral bleaching episode tied to an El Nifio event, inwhich an estimated 30% o f the
world's coral reefs were affected, was a wake-up call to coral reef scientists andmanagers alike. Science
magazine devoted an entire issue (August 15, 2003) to the spectre o f coral reef decline. In a lead review
article, entitled Climate Change, Human Impacts and the Resilience of Coral Reefs, the authors identify a
range o f human stressors on reefs whose intensity and frequency have resulted in a global threat to coral
reefs. The cumulative impact o f this threat is exacerbated by historically high rates o f climate change and
climate variability, which together place enormous stress on the ability o f reefs to adapt. The Global
Status o f Coral Reefs 2002 Report, lists two thirds o f the world's reefs as under severe threat from the
cumulative impacts o f economic development and associated impacts o f climate change. Calls for
protection and more sustainable use o f coral reef ecosystems have been a familiar theme in global fora,
from the Intemational Coral Reef Initiative (launched in 1995, inwhich the Bank played a key role), to the
Convention on Biological Diversity (1999, the Intemational Tropical Marine Ecosystems Management
Symposia (ITMEMS Iand 11, 1998 and 2003, respectively), and most recently, the World Summit on
Sustainable Development (2002). The WSSD Plan o f Implementation identifies coral reefs as unique and
vulnerable ecosystems that play a crucial role in the economies o f SIDs and other developing states, and
urgedpartners to: (i)  implementthe Framework for Action ofthe Intemational Coral ReefInitiative(ICRI);
(ii) implementthe JakartaMandate on Marine Biodiversity of the Convention on BiologicalDiversity; and
(iii)strengthen capacity globally to manage these ecosystems through science-basedmanagement and
information sharing.




                                                     - 5 -

3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices:
Addressing these challenges will require a new researchparadigm. Based on agreedpriorities identifiedin
extensive consultations with coral reef scientists andmanagers during the Block A phase, this project seeks
to coordinate and target research for the first time inthis community's history. It will establish a global
network o f eminent coral reef scientists working together across disciplines and regions so that (i)    key
knowledge gaps can be systematically addressedto reduce uncertainty in the context o f management, (ii)
targeted research is multidisciplinary, drawing on a blend o f biophysical and social sciences, (iii)     the
research is integrated across space and time to allow for a synoptic view o f coral reef ecosystem dynamics
in response to stress at local, regional and global scales and (iv) research findings are effectively
communicated to decision-makers. (vi) These findings will be followed up at the policy level by the Bank in
country dialogue with clients with coral reefs, as to appropriate policy actions andinvestments.

Strategic choices involved the design o f a global project for targeted research vs. a series o f regional or
national-level projects to support science based management o f reefs. Other strategic choices involved the
institutional arrangements and flow o f funds for a global project which will be implemented across four
sub-regions. Another key strategic choice has beento focus capacity buildingon creating the investigative
framework and robust methodology to prioritize and test hypotheses in the field that will inform
management, rather than to focus on managementper se. Other initiatives, like the Intemational Coral
Reef Action Network (ICRAN) andNGO supported community-based management efforts are designed to
focus on the latter. This strategic choice has clear implications for the fundamental nature anddesign o f the
Targeted Research Project.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components(see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for adetailed costbreakdown):
Below are summarized the overall components o f the TR project, the structure o f the participating
elements, the key reforms to be sought, the benefits and target population, and the institutional and
implementationarrangements.

 Project compnents are organized around the following major themes:

Component I.Addressing Knowledge and Technology Gaps (US$11.2 M)

Over the past ten years, an increasing awareness o f the importance o f coral reefs has been evident,
especially in light o f their rapid decline in many regions, and their sigmficance to developing countries.
However, what remains fundamentally unknown about these ecosystems is alarming, especially when
management interventions are becoming increasingly important. Significant gaps inunderstanding some o f
the basic forcing functions affecting coral reefs remain. This targeted research framework will
systematically define those information gaps, and prioritize them in an order o f strategic importance to
management, so that the resulting information and tools developed can lead to credible outcomes. The
project is organized around six key themes and research questions, which will be investigated by
interdisciplinary teams o f developing and developed country scientists. These themes were identified
through extensive consultation with the scientific and management communities over the course o f project
preparation to encompass the kinds o f knowledge and management tools that underpin sustainability
science for coral reefs. Five o f these are the focus o f investigations by distinct working groups under
Component I:




                                                      - 6 -

 i. Bleaching and Local Ecological Response: The physiological mechanisms and ecological
     consequences o f large area (or massive) coral reef bleaching, particularly inresponse to sea surface
     temperature anomalies, like the El NiiiolSouthem Oscillation episodes; to nutrient and sediment
     influxes; and the potential consequences o f changes in frequency o f coral taxa in response to such
     stressors on coral reef integrity andfunction;
ii.Disease:Thenature,severityandspreadofcoralreefdiseases,someofwhichmayberesponsiblefor
     major shiRs inthe structure, function, health and sustainability o f coral reefs;
iii.Connectivity:      The importance o f physical and biological connections (or "connectivity") between
     coral reefs, whether within or between different regons o f Intemational Waters. This also has direct
     bearingonthe environmental conditions andkey design factors neededto establish andsustain effective
     Marine Protected Areas (MPAs);
iv. Restoration and Remediation: The tools, technologies and efficacy of restoring coral reefs that have
     been severely degraded or destroyed, and the key organisms and environmental conditions to consider
     when rehabilitating a given coral reef environment, andthe circumstances under which such restoration
     may be cost-effective;
v. Remote Sensing: The application of remote sensing to refine information and enhance the rate and
     scale at which knowledge can be generated and applied. This includes the need to modify remote
     sensing applications and related technologies so that they can be practically deployed and sustained
     within developing countries;

A sixth theme focuses on the development of Decision Support Tools to help managers andpolicymakers
understand the likely pressurehesponsebehavior o f coral reef ecosystems to a range o f local and climate
change related stressors, and the types o f interventions that could mitigate these effects. This theme i s
addressed by the Modeling and Decision Support Working Group and is described in Component 111,
below, on LinkingScience to Management.

Figure 1shows the intent o f a thematic integration and coordinationbetweenthe working groups at a gven
site. Given resource limitations, not all working groups can begin targeted investigations in all 4 regions
initially. However, the intent is to have all working groups engaged in at least two o f the four locations
within the project's first phase. Figure 2 shows the locations andstages inthe project at which the working
groups will engage within each region. Standard operating procedures are being developed to ensure
 statistical rigor and comparability o f results across field sites. Working Groups will work with researchers
from the Centers o f Excellence to set up sampling, permanent plots and experimental work that can be
initiatedjointly and monitored between visits by Working Group members. The Modelling and Decision
 Support Working Group will pull together results from other groups and their own collection o f
 socioeconomic data to create models o f the system at each site that can be disturbedby various stressors.
 Outcomes, including their social andeconomic implications, will help elucidate tradeoffs o fvarious policies
to decisionmakers.




                                                        - 7 -

Working Group Collaboration 8t Integration of Findings
at each study location                                                                  +
         Modeling 81Scenario Building
         for Decision Support
                                                                                       HDSWG

                                                                                     I




   Figure1 Major coral reef research themes and the integration of research across
            -
   working groups. By employing this layering approach, there is greater leverage in
   relating information across themesand within the initially limited numberof studysites.
   Sites may increase in replication as this model evolves over the course of the Targeted
   Researchprogram.




                                             - 8 -

Intitial status of Workina Grow activities within each of the four regions and Centers
                                                     of Excellence

   Year 1            Year2                 Year3               Year           Year 5 Or      Four Targeted Research
                                                                           later Dhases IRegions and the stages
             Puerto Morelos/ Akumal (Mexico)                                                lin which each Working
   BWG                                                                                       Group executes specific
                                                                                             activities. Based on
   DWG                                                                                       fiscal limitations several
   CWG                                                                                       of the WG's will start in
                                                                                             a limited number of
   WWG*                                                                                      sites, and will gradualy
   RRWG*                                                                                     expand to the other
                                                                                             regions. In the
                                                                                             meantime cross-cutting
                      Zanzibar (Tanzania)                                                    meetings of WG
     SP
   RRWG*

    DWG*




   RRWG
    CWG*




    BWG*



   RSWG*



        -
Working GI
*representativesfrom these groups will be visiting & working with the COEs duringthese periods,or holdingsmallermeetings



                   Figure 2 - Study Site locations and thestages at which workinggroups will engage.




                                                              -9-

Component11. PromotingScientificLearningandCapacityBuilding(US $4.2 M*)

Currently, most coral reef research is based inuniversities and research institutes inthe developed world,
while most coral reefs are located in developing countries. Rectifying this global discrepancy is a key
mission o f this project. To accomplish this, the researchthemes outlined above will be exploredindifferent
regions. This will serve both to ensure that the information ultimately used by managers is regionally
appropriate, and to provide collaborative training opportunities with local scientists so that they can
respondto future developments.

The Targeted Researchinvestigations will focus around four "Centers o f Excellence" (COE) infour major
coral reefregions o f the world:

         Western CaribbeadMesoamerica:          Puerto Morelos Laboratory o f the Universidad Aut6noma
         Nacional de Mtxico
   0     Eastern Africa: Institute of Marine Science, o f the University o f Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar,
         Tanzania
   0     SoutheastAsia: Marine Science Institute inBolinao o f the University of the Philippines
         South PacifidAustralasia: Heron IslandMarine Research Laboratory o f University o f Queensland,
         on the Great Barrier Reef, Australia

These sites were selected on the basis o f significant ongoing GEF andother donor investments incoral reef
management, and where considerable baseline data already exist. Although the three developing country
nodes are not yet Centers o f Excellence, they do count on a core o f coral reef scientists andinfrastructure,
essential to carrying out the research. One o f the objectives o f the Project will be to transform these resarch
institutions into real Centers o f Excellence--to serve as regional resources for coral reef scientists and
managers.

Each of these Centerswill play an important functional role within the overall Targeted Researchprogram.
The Centers will host the majority (but not all) o f the research of the Working Groups (as some will be
carried out at satellite sites) andpromote the participation o f local scientists andgraduate students inthis or
similar research. Funds will be made available to each COE to support regionally relevant coral reef
research, identified as a high priority, which links to the Targeted Research carried out by the various
Working Groups, and can benefit from the expertise o f these visiting researchers. This scientific mentoring
will help build capacity for world class research that will eventually be designed and sustained by local
scientists in the region. Such apprenticeship-type managements were piloted at the Centers o f Excellence
during project preparation, in which world renown, seasoned researchers were paired with younger
post-doctoral and graduate students ina supporting environment. This model also presents an opportunity
for the scientific community to learn andbenefit from the knowledge o f local stakeholders, especially with
those who may possess traditional knowledge. Itwill be replicatedinall four Centers o f Excellence over the
course o f the project to promote north-south and intergenerational learning between scientists, as well as a
greater appreciation o f the needto make researchrelevant to local andregional needs.

Second, the Centers o f Excellence will serve as magnets for regional and local scientists to improve their
technical skills, such as:

    0    taxonomic classification to assist visitingregional andinternational researchers
    0    experimental design andimplementation
    0    communication workshops to more accurately convey research results to an array o f audiences


                                                     -10-

   0      writing workshops to improve the quality of papers to be accepted in intemational scientific
          joumals

The Targeted ResearchProject will support a series o f workshops eachyear which will bringresearchersin
the various working groups together to orient field research, brief each other on findings andbased on these
results, modify anddesign the next phase o f investigation.

In addition,        researchers will explore together with other stakeholders (e.g, NGO representatives,
government agency representatives and regional and local businesses) how such research findings can be
applied inpractice (see Component I11below). At least once duringthe life o f project, a symposiumwill be
convened involving all project participants and representatives o f relevant GEF IW and Marine
Biodiveristy Projects to presents findings, demonstrate their application to improving management (e.g.,
through new tools and decision support systems) andpublic awarenessabout cause andeffect relationships
betweenhumanimpacts andcoral reefhealth.

Ifsuccesshl, this modelmaybe easily replicatedinother regions, e.g., the RedSeaandCentralPacific, as
the Project expands into a secondphase.

*Support for this component will bereinforcedby graduatestudent scholarships to developingcountrystudents andresearchbainingconductedat the
CentersofExcellenceinconjunctionwiththe researchundertakenbythe various WorkingGroups, identitifedabove inComponent I.


Component111. LinkingScientificKnowledgeto ManagementandPolicy (US $4.0 M)

A guiding Synthesis Panel has been established to give direction to the targeted research program and
ensure that the whole is greater than the sum o f its parts. In addition to overseeing the quality o f the
research,the Synthesis Panel synthesizes results across Working Groups and Centers o f Excellence to
interpret these findings and make policy recommendations where appropriate. Periodic symposia will be
convened throughout the project to engage key stakeholders, public policy makers, and experts in
economics, social development and law in dialogue about the relevance and implications o f research
outcomes. With input from these groups and from regular independent reviews, the Synthesis Panel will
modify the focus o f investigations as needed to benefit management and policy. The Panel consists o f the
heads o f each o f the six scientific working groups, representatives from each o f the Centers o f Excellence,
The Universityo f Queensland and UNESCO/IOC ,and several outside experts representing the scientific,
managemenet, natural resource economics and environmental policy communities. Efforts are currently
underway to engage a poverty and reefs expert and coral reef manager from South East Asia (possibly
Indonesia). The Synthesis Panel will be aided inits role by a coordinator based in Washington, D.C. who
will serve as an Exectuive Secretary to the Synthesis Panel and interlocutor with the PEA. Terms of
reference for the Coordinator have been drafted andwill be included inthe Project Implementation Manual.


Another important element o f this component will be the work o f a sixth scientific Working Group, on
Modeling and Decision Support. Its task will be to integrate bio-physical data and and other information
about coral reef ecosystem boundaries anddrivers with economic and social data from humancommunities
inand around the Center of Excellence. Modelingthe response of coral reefs to these ecosystem drivers,
incorporating disturbance from both human stressors and climate change, can help decisionmakers
visualize the results o f various policy decisions on coral reef structure and function. Among the types o f
stresshesponse system behavior modeled could be the effects o f eutrophication and sedimentation on
recruitment o f coral reef organisms, effects o f pollution or increased sea surface temperature on the
frequency o f disease outbreaks on coral reefs, effects o f increases in sea surface temperature on coral



                                                                   -11    -

reproduction and calcification rates, and the effects o f overfishing and changes in food web structure on
the abundance and distribution o f reef buildingcorals. Such models will help translate ecosystem response
to changes inthe productivity o f ecosystem goods and services. These changes will be translated, in turn,
into economic and social impacts on local stakeholders as well as on coral reef dependent economies inthe
region.

Inaddition to hosting the research, each Center of Excellence will serve as the conduit of information to
satellite sites in the region, and to various user/stakeholder groups. These user groups include other GEF
projects (including those in OP2 as well as Large Marine Ecosystem Projects), programs such as the
Global Coral Reef Monitoring Network (GCRMN) and the Internatioanl Coral Reef Action Network
(ICRAN) o f the International Coral Reef Initiative (ICRI), and Coral ReefDegradation inthe IndianOcean
(CORDIO), a multi-donor program (see Fig. 3 below). Thus, in addition to strengthening scientific
capacity in the region, the Centers o f Excellence will be responsbile for building management capacity
locally among coastal resource managers (including coastal developers, managers o f watersheds draining
into coral reefs, community-based groups andNGOs promoting conservation and sustainable use o f coral
reefs) by: (1) overseeing training inmonitoring and the appliation o f new management tools developed by
the Working Groups to emerging management initiatives, (2) incorporating traditional knowledge into the
training and data collection methods, and (3) translating research findings into user fr-iendly information
andtools for decisionmakers. This will include demonstrations of the visualization tools developed by the
Modeling andDecision Support Working Group.

The Centers o f Excellence will also serve as conduits o f information to decision-makers at the the national
andregional levels inthe design of national developent plans andpolicies where tourism and fisheries are
concerned, inthe implementation o f international conventions andnegotiating access agreements to coastal
resources.NGOs active inthe region, represent a particularly cost-effective means to communicate findings
to managers and help convert them into low-tech solutions for direct application to developing country
management needs. These include tool kits for managers, such as the one TNC has prepared for building
resilience into MPA design, as well as those involving bio-indicators to assess stress in key reef species.
The Project has also been identified as a source o f new knowledge for an innovative Learning
Partnership--the Tropical Marine Protected Area Network--initiated recently by Conservation International,
The Nature Conservancy, Wildlife Conservation Society and World Wildlife Fund. T h i s learning network
will operate in the same regions where the TR Project Centers o f Excellence are located and will help
disseminate project findings for uptake by MPA managers.




                                                      -12-

L




Highlevel audienceswill bekept abreast of research findings through the work of the Synthesis Panel. In
addition to overseeing the direction andquality o f the Targeted Research, the Synthesis Panel integrates the
research findings and serves as a formal interlocutor with other disciplines, such as development economics
andlaw, to enhance the relevance anduptake ofresults by policymakers and to recommend key policy and
institutional reforms stemming from the targeted research. In addition to publishing findings in the peer
reviewed scientific literature, the Synthesis Panel will periodicaly develop and disseminate a series o f
management and policy briefs, or prdcis, in a form easily internalized by different audiences. These
audiences include Bank Country Directors, GEF project teams, policy-makers, andmember o f regional and
global fora (e.g, the IPCC, CSD, ICRI, SBSTTA, Regional Seas Conventions).

To inform the Bank's country dialogue with strategic clients with coral reef resources, an internal working
group composed o f Bank Task Team Leaders o f relevent coral reef and coastal resource management
projects has been formed. This working group will liaise closely with the Synthesis Panel andrelay project
findings and recommendations to country teams (both SMUs and CMUs).               Country Directors will be
briefedperiodically on the results to inform country dialogue on neededpolicy reforms, as well as feed into
AAA work, preparationofCASes, PRSPsand sector strategies.

Finally, to disseminate and promote the uptake o f Project results, the TR will also make use o f the
1W:Leam Project (a GEFIUNDPIUNEPNB Knowledge Management Project for International Waters) to
help disseminate research findings. Electronic fora and roundtable discussions focusing on key themes
emerging from the targeted investigations may be supported through the 1W:Leam Project and open to the
relevant community o f practice. Over the course o f project implementation, the information and tools
produced will be disseminated as knowledge products to enhance the management o f coral reefs. These
products may range from in-situ diagnostics (for example, disease assessment andbio-indicators o f specific
forms o f stress andmetabolic response incoral reef organisms, to markers for larval recruitment indicating
source and sink reefs) to remote sensing products and applications to assess the state o f coral reef health.
(See Box).




                                                     -13-

   Figure 3  - Illustrationof the institutional linkages involved in designing, implementing and disseminatingthe results of the targeted investigations.
   Institutional Nodes, or Centers of Excellence, will provide the quality control and research rigor required to cany out the experimental design
   formulatedby the working groups andendorsedby the SteeringCommittee. Capacitybuildingis the result ofcollaboration betweenaCOE andother
   researchfacilities in selectedlocationswith coral reef ecosystems, through formal exchanges, targeted learning and collaborative research. Research
   results are channeledto management projects and activities to inform decision making, and to policymakers to introduce needed reforms. Similar
   clusters o f node and satellite institutions are envisioned in each region and some of the working groups may overlap in their use of field sites and
   clustersto carry out investigations.


   ComponentN.ProjectAdministration (US$2.9 M)
   This component involves overall coordination andmanagement o f Project implementation (see section C 4.
   on Institutional Arrangements.)                   A Project Coordination Unit will be set up in the Center for Marine
   Studies o f the University o f Queensland, which will serve as the Project Executing Agency (PEA). The
   PEA will be staffed by an Executive Officer, a Financial Management OfficerProcurement Officer, and a
   Project Coordinator to assist the EO in overseeing activities at the Centers o f Excellence. As part o f its
   in-hndcontribution to the Projectpartnership, UNESCO/Intergovemmental Oceanographic Administration
   (IOC) will second one o f its technical staff from Headquarters to serve as a full time Communications and
   Outreach Officer based inBrisbane at the PEA. His primary role will be to liaise with the COEs, to link the
   targeted research to IOC programs to build capacity for better management o f ocean resources, and to
   facilitate a knowledge network among COEs with support from the PEA.                                              The PEA will also be
   responsible for Data Management and for disseminating and archiving research results in formats and
   channels acceptable to the institutions involved and for the benefit o f target audiences. The Project
   ImplementationManual will document procedures for data ownership, management anddissemination.

Component                    Indicative            % o f        GEF             %GEF          Bank           Yoof             Direct         Parallel
                             costs                 Total        Financin        Financin      Financin       Bank             and            Financing
                             CuS$M)                             g               g             g DGF
                                                                                                -            Financin         In-Kind [l]
                                                                                              OJS$M)         g                Co-Finan
                                                                                                                              cing
1. Knowledge &                      11.2              48             8              72              0              0                0           3.2 (2)
Technology Gaps

2. Promoting
Leamingand
CapacityBuilding
3. Linking
Scientific
Knowledgeto
Management
4. Project
Administration
TOTAL                      22.3                    11                       3                       2.5     I    5.8

[11Administeredoutsii :the PEA
r21 ResearchInstitutions
L ,
[3] Smart State Grantto HeronIsland




    1. Filling Key Knowledge Gaps                           11.20      50.2      3.20       28.3        8.00       72.7
    2. PromotingLeaming and CapacityBuilding                 4.20      18.8      3.00       26.5        1.20       10.9
    3. Linking Scientific Knowledge to Management            4.00      17.9      2.60       23.0        1.40       12.7
    4. ProjectAdministration                                 2.90      13.0      2.50       22.1        0.40        3.6
                                   Total Project Costs      22.30     100.0    11.30        100.0      11.00      100.0
                             Total Financing Required       22.30     100.0    11.30        100.0      11.00      100.0


    2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:
    Key Policy and Institutional Reforms

    The key policy reforms to be sought will be (i) information andknowledge transfer o f those practices
                                                      better
    that can most effectively alleviate local humanstressors, that may render coral reefs more vulnerable to the
    effects o f climate change; (ii)development o f institutional and human resource capacity to support
    coordinated, long-term investigations into the nature o f stresdresponse interactions determining coral reef
    sustainability inthe face o f cumulative stress from natural and human-induced causes; (iii)      facilitating the
    linkages between science and management to visualize future scenarios and support decisions about
    tradeoffs related to coral reefs use, identify appropriate regulatory and incentive-based interventions, and
    buildsupport for sustained conservation ofcoral reefs.

    Although this framework is designed to address targeted research globally, the Project aims to shape policy
    decisions affecting the sustainability o f coral reef ecosystems at national and local levels. It aims to do this
    by developing accurate stresdresponse and ecosystem dynamic models and decision support that will
    significantly improve our understanding o f coral reef ecosystem resilience, vulnerability to difference
    forms o f stress (from local, human-induced stress, to climate change impact), and the steps that can be
    taken to reduce uncertainty indesigning management interventions. Scenario building, which will allow the
    forecasting o f reef ecosystem response to stress under different managemenduse options (including
    upstream or offsite development), will provide decision-makers with the basis for sigmficantly improved
    management interventions and the design or strengthening o f relevant policies that contribute to the
    sustainability o f coral reefecosystems for generations to come.



                                                          - 15-

What is needed is a change inthe way coral reef science is pursued in support o f management and inthe
way development decisions which may affect coral reefs are made. This involves a commitment by the
public sector to sustained, targeted andhgh quality empirical work directed at resolving key unknowns as a
fundamental priority. Once these key, targeted gaps in knowledge are filled, the dissemination o f this
information to policymakers, the scientific community, industry, coastal managers and the general public
will have positive impacts on management interventions and policy. Ultimately, the Targeted Research
should support policies related to mitigating the effects o f climate change, improving those practices and
technologies that effectively reduce land based sources o f pollution to reefs, control over-fishing, regulate
tourism, and support conservation efforts to enhance natural resilience andrecovery o f reefs to stress. This
includes, inter alia, better zoning o f coastal landscapes and seascapes, and terrestrial corridors contiguous
withreefs; adoption of improvedfieldtechniques to assess reefhealth, or factors such as disease, light,heat
and other stressors which may elicit coral bleaching; and application of techniques to enhance natural
recovery o f reefs.

3. Benefitsand target population:
Benefits andTarget Population

The benefits o f this project are primarilyglobal, however, there will also be regional and local benefits as a
result o f many o f the findings. The targeted research is directed at filling critical gaps inour understanding
o f how coral reef ecosystems around the world respond to different types o f threats, how to mitigate these
threats, and how best to enhance natural resilience to and recovery from major disturbances. Only with
systematic investigations designed to identify the nature o f ecosystem response to such threats and to
discriminate significant trends incoral reef ecosystem responsefrom natural variability (background noise),
can science provide the guidance needed to managers and stakeholders who rely on coral reef ecosystem
goods andservices for livelihoods, or value their biological, cultural andintrinsic worth.

The major benefits o f the TR will be:

    0    networks o f developed and developing country scientists collaborating on the testing o f strategic,
         priority hypotheses related to determinants o f coral reef vulnerability and resilience under various
         forms o f stress andcoordinating their research across regions;
    0    capacity andlong-term commitments for targeted learning withinandacross regions strengthened
    0    a rigorous framework inplace for science based management o f coral reef ecosystems in four key
         regions o f the world;
    0    informed decision making backed by solid science that reduces uncertainty, and guidance to GEF
         and other partners on the range of options and most cost-effective investments to improve the
         condition o f coral reefs globally.

Development benefits include a globally coordinated scientific community skilled in developing
investigative W e w o r k s designed to reduce uncertainty regarding key issues related to ecosystem
sustainability within and between regions, and to develop cost-effective tools and knowledge that will
significantly improve coral reefmanagement at the local level. Because o f the global nature o f this research
effort, the opportunity exists to coordinate with a number o f ongoing or planned coral reef initiatives in
various regions o f the world, this includes bilateral agencies (such as US N O M and the US Coral Reef
Task Force, the Agence Francaise de Developpement, which is about to launch a coral reef research
initiative inthe South Pacific), scientific research institutions (like the U.S. National Science Foundation,
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution and the National Science and Engineering Research Council o f
Canada), and the private sector. Project beneficiaries include (i)     the community o f established coral reef



                                                      - 1 6 -

scientists, who will have the opportunity to collaborate on a global scale on agreed priorities essential to
effective, long-term management, and (ii)   anemerging generation ofnew coral reefresearcherswho will be
trained in cutting edge investigative techniques by the best scientists inthe field, to answer these and other
questions relatedto the sustainability o f coral reef ecosystemsas we know them.

Managers (from the public sector, NGOs and CBDOs) and policy-makers will also benefit from this
Targeted Researchas the recipients o f knowledge andkey information that will help them make the case for
better practices and policies aligned with conservation and sustainable use o f coral reef ecosystems. The
Targeted Research preparation has consulted extensively with on-going scientific and management efforts
related to coral reefs. Current coral reefs management initiatives, such as ICRAN, which is now an
operational network o f ICRI, will benefit by strengthening management recommendation and options as a
result o f this project. NGO program, such as the Nature Conservancy's "Transforming Coral Reef
Conservation for the 21st Century" will also use TR results, andis collaborating with this project to further
conservation objectives. Important indirect beneficiaries are the hundreds o f millions o f people who either
rely on coral reefs for environmental security and economic livelihoods; enjoy reefs for their recreational,
cultural and spiritual value; or stand to gain from biodiversity and ecological services that have yet to be
assessed.

The GEF and its implementing agencies, including the World Bank, will also benefit significantly from the
guidance emerging over the course o f this targeted research program, to: (i)      assess the cost-effectiveness
and long-term impact of current interventions; (ii)       re-orient strategic assistance if necessary; and (iii)
promote synergy acrossrelated focal areas (e.g., internationalwaters, biodiversity and climate change),

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
A major study to identify the most appropriate institutional arrangements and flow o f funds for the
implementation o f the project was completed as part o f project preparation. The results o f the study
recommended the establishment o f a global implementing agency (the Project Executing Agency or PEA)
with overall responsibility for project execution and administrative accountability to the Bank.             An
arrangement whereby The University o f Queensland, Australia, serves as recipient o f the Grant funds on
behalf o f project beneficiaries, and as Executing Agency, in partnership with UNESCO-IOC, has been
determined to offer an optimal combination o f financial accountability, technical expertise, capacity
buildingand long-term institutional commitment (including substantial co-financing ), to serve as the global
executing agency. The PEA will have a fully dedicated staff to oversee project implementation, outreach
and communication activities, and fiture planning (including development activities to identify future
co-financing and new partnerships). Such a staff will include, at a minimum, a senior level Executive
Officer, a Project Coordinator, an Outreach and Communications Specialist, and a Financial Manager with
responsibility for sub-project grants andthe limited procurement o f goods and consultant services that will
be undertakenby the PEA. These will be full time positions, working out o f the same centralized project
office. Inaddition, the PEA will hire, as necessary, short term consultants to work with the Synthesis Panel
to: 1) design a communication strategy for the Project 2) produce and disseminate knowledge products
(including periodic publications in peer reviewed journals, policy and management recommendations,
videos and other educational materials to reach a range o f user groups); (3) organize multi-disciplinary
symposia to help interpret research findings for policymakers, and (4) periodically evaluate the
performance o f Working Groups and Centers o f Excellence. A dedicated Executive Secretariat will assist
the Synthesis Panel incarrying out these tasks.

At the fieldsite level, the four Centers ofExcellence will be responsible for hosting the research, helpingto
organize training workshops and information outreach activities. They will work closely with the 6



                                                      - 1 7 -

scientific working groups, who will be directly incharge o f organizing and leading the research program.
The    Working Groups will be responsible for planning detailed work programs around key research
question in their area o f concem and translating these into research proposals that will be reviewed for
funding. The research outlined in these proposals must satisfy criteria of scientific rigor, relevance to
management, feasibility and cost effectiveness Input o f the management community inshaping the resarch
agenda and on interpreation o f research findings will be obtained inter alia, through inclusion o f managers
ineachWorking Group andinthe independent peer review of proposals, through reference groups of end
users associated with each Working Group, through workshops and multi-disciplinary symposia designed
to interpret the application o f results, and, inthe case o f Modeling andDecision Support Working Group,
through ongoing consultations with decisionmakers at the local andhigherlevels.

Chairs o f the Working Groups and representative o f the Centers o f Excellence will be responsible for
developing and submitting annual work plans to the PEA and reports on performance relative to annual
benchmarks. These will be reviewed, in tum, by the Synthesis Panel, and by independent reviewers as
appropriate. A sub-committe o f the Synthesis Panel, the Executive Committe, will be derived fiom the
extemal members o f the Synthesis Panel (e.g., those not affiliated with a Working Group or Center o f
Excellence) and a representative o f the University o f Queensland not directly associated with the PEA
office.   These "financially disinterested'' members will review annual work programs and budgets
submittedby the Working Groups andCenters of Excellenceand make decisions about resource allocations
consistent with performance and research priorities agreed by the group as a whole. The Executive
Committe will also take into account the recommendations o f independent peer reviewers who will be
selected from the coral reefresearch and management communities to provide an arms length review o f the
annual reports andwork plans o f each Working Group andCenter o f Excellence. Procedural details for the
functioning o fthe Synthesis Panel andthe ExecutiveCommittee have been developed, along with guidelines
and criteria for the approval o f sub-project grants, andare included inthe Project Implementation Manual.




    Figure4. Diagram ofrelationshipbetweenthe various administrative and oversightbodiesof the TR Project.



                                                       -18-

The PEA submits semi-annual Projectprogress reports and researchand budget proposalson behalf of the WGs
and COEs to the Synthesis Panel for their review. The Synthesis Panel makes its recommendatios to the
Executive Committee, which reviews these and input from independent peer reviewers to make final decisions on
resource allocations. Policy Briefs and other technicalcommunicationsemergingfrom the Synthesis Panelare also
reviewedbythe ExectuiveCommitteeandindependentreviewersprior to beingreleased.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives consideredandreasonsfor rejection:
Previous studies o f large-scale environmental impacts have shown that organizing response, damage
assessment and restoration programs in a reaction-based mode results in significant financial and societal
costs to both the affected and responsible parties. An altemative approach is to support management with
targeted research that is proactive in its focus and strategic planning. The global knowledge creation and
capacity building that is part o f this program is consistent with the GEF's new strategic emphasis on
targeted learning to build indigenous capacity within its clients for strategic and effective environmental
decision-making. This involves asking the right questions, e. g., to identify major bottlenecks or drivers to
sustain coral reef ecosystem goods and services, or to improve the cost-effectiveness o f applications o f
existing tools, like Marine Protected Areas andcoastal andocean zoning, andthe use o f remote sensing and
modeling. Targeted research may also lead to development and application o f new tools, such as
biotechnology, in the design o f bio-indicators o f reef stress or resistance to bleaching, and in the
identification o f pathogens and their pathways o f transmission. At the macro scale, this might involve the
development o f new tools like genetic markers to reveal connectivity between reef systems or techniques to
enhance natural recovery and restore reefs damaged fiom blast fishing or cyanide. This new knowledge,
disseminated and linkedto decision-making, has the capacity to dramatically increase the effectiveness o f
current and future management interventions.             It also lends credibility and accountability to
decision-making andhas the potential to generate the politicalwill neededto make tough trade-offs between
conservation andintensive use.

An altemative to this approach is the no-project alternative, which would perpetuate the problems o f
uninformedreactive management rather than science basedpro-active management, and isolated, country-
specific research. The latter, while valuable, would not have the spin-off and global learning impact o f the
networked research and integrated problem solving that is the hallmark o f this Targeted Research and
Capacity BuildingProgram. Without a better understanding o f ecosystem processes and how they interact
with the range of stressors facing coral reefs today,       management interventions will continue to be
hampered by inadequate science. The proposed project will, therfore, link the results o f the Targeted
Research to the Bank's portfolio o f ongoing and pipeline coral reef projects, many inpartnership with the
GEF.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies(completed,
ongoing and planned).
 Pleaserefer to the Map annex to see where many o f these Projects are located inrelation to the Centers of

                                                                                   Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                              Project                     (PSR) Ratings
                                                                              (Bank-financedprojectsonly)
                                                                              Implementation    Development
 Bank-financed                                                                 Progress(IP)    Objective(DO)

 Improvingmanagemento fhighly                Coral ReefRehabilitationand           S                 S
                                            I                               I               I



                                                       -19-

heatened, economically important    ManagementProject
mvironmentalgoods and services inthe (COREMAP): Phases 1-11
:picenter of marinebiodiversity.
                                     Conservationand Sustainable      S      S
                                     Use of the Mesoamerican
                                     BarrierReefSystem
                                     GulfofAqabaEnvironmental         S      S
                                     Action Plan
                                     RedSea Strategic Action Plan     S      S
                                     Implementation(Bank, UNEP
                                     and UNDP)
                                     Coral ReefMonitoringNetwork      S      HS
                                     inMemberStatesofthe Indian
                                     Ocean Commission(COI),
                                     withinthe Global Reef
                                     MonitoringNetwork (GCRMN:
                                     CoastalandMarine                 S      U
                                     Biodiversity Management
                                     Project, Mozambique
                                     Coastal andMarine                U      S
                                     Biodiversity Conservationin
                                     Mindanao,Philippines
                                     Marine Biodiversity Protection   S      S
                                     and Management(MSP),
                                     Samoa
                                     HonMunMPA Pilot Project          H S    S
                                     (MSP), Vietnam
                                     CORALINA Project, San            H S    H S
                                     Andres, Colombia
                                     CoastalZone Integrated
                                     ManagementProgram, Benin
                                     (Pipeline)
                                     GuineanCoastalZone
                                     IntegratedManagementand
                                     Preservationof Biodiversity
                                     (Pipeline)
                                     CoastalandBiodiversity
                                     ManagementProgram, Guinea
                                     Bissau(Pipeline)
                                     MarineandCoastal
                                     Biodiversity Conservation,
                                      Senegal (Pipeline)
                                      SustainableCoastal
                                     Livelihoods, Tanzania
                                      (Pipeline)
                                     Mainstreaming Adaptation to
                                      Climate Change inCaribbean
                                      (Pipeline)



                                                -20-

[Other development agencies
 SelectedUNDP Activities      Tanzania: Developmentof
                              Mnazi Bay MarinePark
                              Comoros: Conservationof
                              Biodiversity and Sustainable
                              Developmentinthe Federal
                              Islamic Republicofthe
                              Comoros
                              Mauritius: The Management
                              andProtectionofthe
                              EndangeredMarine
                              Environment ofthe Republic of
                              Mauritius
                              India: Managementof Coral
                              ReefEcosystemof Andaman
                              andNicobar Islands
                              Maldives: Conservationand
                              Sustainable Use of Biodiversity
                              Associatedwith Coral Reefs in
                               the Maldives
                               Vietnam: CoastalandMarine
                               Biodiversity Conservationand
                               Sustainable Use inthe ConDao
                               Islands
                               Philippines: Conservationof
                               the TubbatahaReefNational
                               Park
                               Philippines: Biodiversity
                               ConservationandManagement
                               of the Bohol Islands
                               PapuaNew Guinea: Milne-Ba!
                               Province MarineIntegrated
                                Conservation
                                Belize: Conservationand
                                Sustainableuse of the Barrier
                                ReefComplex
                                Cuba: Priority Actions to
                                Consolidate Biodiversity
                                Protectioninthe
                                Sabana-CamagueyEcosystem
 UNEP Activities                ReversingDegradationTrends
                                inthe SouthChina Seaand
                                GulfofThailand
                                IntegratingWatershedand
                                Coastal Area Managementin
                                Small IslandDeveloping States
                                of the Caribbean
                                DevelopmentandProtectionof



                                         -21  -

                                          the Coastal and Marine
                                          Environment inSub-Saharan
                                          Africa
                                          Reductiono f Environmental
                                          Impact from Tropical Shrimp
                                          Trawling through Introduction
                                          o f By-catch Technologies and
                                          Change o f Management
 Other Donors                              InternationalCoral Reef
                                          Initiative (ICRI)
                                           InternationalCoral Reef Action
                                          Network (ICRAN)
                                                                           J (HighlyUnsati


Inaddition to projects related to conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity (exemplified by
the examples given above), there are a growing number o f Large Marine Ecosystem (IW-LME) Projects
under preparation (Caribbean LME, Gulf of Mexico LME, and Agulhas and Somali Current LME) and
early implementation (Pacific SIDS, South China Sea), which complement and may benefit from the
overall research agenda o f the Targeted Research Project. The UNDP/GEF Caribbean LME project
concept highlightsthe need to fill critical data gaps related to preparation o f the TDNSAPs for the wider
Caribbean. There is also a capacity building component o f the LME Project, focusing on improving
governance and institutional arrangements for management o f shared resources o f the Caribbean LME, as
well as a science component which focuses on transboundary, pelagic fisheries management. The TR
Project can contribute information on stress/response pathways in coral reefs o f the Western Caribbean
associatedwith major landbased threats, as well as from Climate Change. There is broad scope for linking
the Working Groups on Connectivity and Remote Sensing under the TRYwith research groups under the
Caribbean LME Project, especially on the topics o f spawning aggregations and larval and adult phase
dispersal (major axis of connectivity within LMEs), andassessingmarine ecosystem health. The latter will
be crucial to the objectives o f enhancing governance o f transboundary coastal and marine resources.
Discussions with UNEP Regional Seas staff in the Caribbean on how to use results from the TR to
accelerate ratification o f the LandBased Sources o f Marine Pollution(LBS) Protocol inmember countries
have also taken place. Use o f the GIs-based coral reef visualization and decision support tools to be
developed by the Modeling WG, represent the potential application o f TR research outputs to management
andpolicy inthe Wider Caribbean.
Similar opportunities exist for the TR Project to liaise with the UNEP/GEF South China Sea Project,
which has a sub-component and regional working group on Coral Reefs, some o f whose members overlap
with those inthe TR Project. Opportunities for close collaboration betweenthe two projects lie w i t h the
area o f Reef Restoration and Rehabilitation, Connectivity and Decision Support and Modeling. The
International Coral Reef Action Network (ICRAN), a partnership hosted by UNEP and the World
Conservation Monitoring Center, will also be able to use the results from the Targeted Research
investigations to contribute to a suite o f demonstration sites within UNEP's Regional Seas Programmes,
including South East Asia and the Caribbean. Peer-to-peer learning exchanges are also planned, which
could be facilitated through the nodes. As a result o f these information and learning exchanges, feedback
will also be providedto participants inthe Targeted Researchto help ensure that it is client-driven.
Although Agulhas and Somali Current LMEproject is still inthe concept phase, there has been significant
progress in scoping out needs and activities within the Eastern AfricadWestern Indian Ocean Marine
Eco-region o f the LMEthrough a consortium o fNGOs (WWF is taking the lead) andresearch institutions,


                                                     - 22 -

including the Institute o f Marine Sciences in Zanzibar. Focus on coastal resources, such as coral reefs,
fisheries and mangroves, and improving management tools such as spatial planning (MPAs and ICM) and
remote sensing, offer excellent opportunities for collaboration between the TR Project and this effort and
building ownership for an ecosystem based management approach to governance of share living marine
resources o f the LME.

To ensurebroad dissemination o f research results across LMEs, facilitate uptake o f new management tools
andpromote replication o f research activities innew regions during subsequent phases o f the Project (e.g.,
the Pacific SIDS, the Gulf o f Mexico, and the Red Sea LMEs), the Targeted Research Project will
coordinate closely with the 1W:LEARNProject, about to enter its second phase. The Bank led activities
under this jointly implemented UNDP/UNEPPNB IW Full Sized Project, will include hosting leaning
exchanges on coral reefs through the 1W:Learn website (www.IWLeam.net) with links to the TR website at
www.GEFCora1.org       . These  learning exchanges may feature, among other things, techniques to assess
ecosystem boundaries (relevant to classification o f marine ecoregions within the LMEs), and new
diagnostic tools to predict coral bleaching and disease paths incorals, or techniques to enhance recovery o f
damaged reefs, a highpriority for reefs inthe South China Sea. Inaddition to the virtual learning that can
take place through links to the 1W:Learn portal, IW Project Teams andrepresentatives from these projects
will be invited to attend periodic training workshops inthe regions hosted by the Centers o f Excellence.
Resources will be set aside for participation by government counterparts involved in these LMEProjects,
to ensure cross project learning and encourage adoption o f better management policies. Similarly, funds
will be set aside to ensure that TR principals attend the biannual IW Conferences, to report on research
results andapplication to management o f transboundary water resources.

3. Lessonslearned and reflected in the project design:
Historically, research components o f GEF projects dealing with coastal and marine ecosystems have
focused on assessing andmonitoringbaseline conditions. Several have documented declines inthe resource
base, but few, if any, have supported experimental research that would improve our understanding o f
ecosystem function or factors that regulate ecosystem response to various kinds o f threats. A recent
Consultative Group meeting o f the WB/GEF MesoAmerican Barrier Reef System Project held in Belize
(October 2003), flagged the Targeted Reseach Project as a much needed complement to the work the
MBRS Project is undertaking in sustainable fisheries, monitoring o f           ecosystem health and policy
harmonization incoral reef related sectors inthe four participating countries. This includes: (i) managing
 spawning aggregations o f commercially valuable reef fish (and links to the TR Connectivity Working
 Group), (ii)  implementing the first regional Synoptic Monitoring Program o f Reef Health for the MBRS
 (with links to the TR Remote Sensing Working Group and to the the Disease and Bleaching Working
 Groups); and (iii)  technical input to the MBRS Policy Woking Groups on harmonizing policies and good
practice related to shared resources o f the MBRS (with links to the TR Modeling and Decision Support
 Working Groups). Similarly, the COREMAP I1Project Team andNGOs (TNC) working alongside, have
 indicated very strong interest in collaboration with the TR Working Group on Reef Restoration and
 Rehabilitation, to test new tools for restoring dynamited andcyanide damaged reefs inthe region. Giventhe
 emphasis on ecosystem-based management endorsed by the GEF, the WSSD and others for favoring a
 holistic approach to natural resources management, there is a need to understandthe nature andpathways
 o f ecosystem drivers to identify bottlenecks inecosystem function andhow best to address these.

 Lessons learned from past experience with public sector financed-research have been incorporated into the
 design o f the Targeted Research, as follows: (i)target research on strategic priorities which will
 significantly enhance knowledge required for effective management, (ii)       identify near-to-medium term
 products and tools that can be applied in the interim to demonstrate the benefits o f a committed, targeted
 research program; (iii)ensure transparency and full-fledged participation in partnerships between


                                                     -23-

developed and developing countries, and (iv) disseminate knowledge as widely as possible, taking care to
tailor messagesto different target audiences.

Historically, the coral reef scientific community has been fragmented in its approach to conducting
investigations ina coordinated manner, and over both space andtime. The TR framework presentsthe first
opportunity for the coral reef scientific community to pool its intellectual resources and energies-in      a
collaborative mode with developed anddeveloping country scientists-to     design targeted investigations that
will addresskey unknowns andultimately contribute to improvinghumanwelfare. The researchframework
has emphasized the need to prioritize gaps in knowledge, sequence investigations to build on knowledge
obtained by one or more working groups, analyze and synthesize results (with the help o f the Synthesis
Panel), and disseminate these as discrete knowledge products and innovative tools to stakeholder groups.
As the results from these investigations come online, the
Synthesis Panel will be ina position to collectively address how the information may best be used to affect
management options, influence policy, contribute to the accuracy o f economic models involving coral reefs
and dependent humancommunities, and improve the quality o f life through enhancing the sustainability of
strategic resources.

4. Indications of recipient commitmentandownership:
This project is global inscope, and will involve more than 70 intemational scientists anda host o f scientific
institutions from around the world. The proposal has the strong support o f the nodal agencies inthe four
countries involved (Mexico, Tanzania, the Philippines and Australia), as evidenced by the letters o f
endorsement from these institutions. The coral reef community in these and other countries inthe regions
who will benefit from direct involvement inthe research or fiom the management dormation that will be
generated by it are also enthusiastic about this global effort. A strong role for the COEs is envisioned in
terms o f engaging other institutions in the region in the research, building capacity among the next
generation o f coral reef scientists and serving as an information clearing house to a range o f stakeholders
(from local communities to national and regional level policy-makers). These activities are consistent with
the missions o f the COEs, and their roles inproviding technical advice for the formulation o f national and
regional policies. To create localbuy-in, each Center o f Excellence will serve as the conduit o f information
to satellite sites and various user/stakeholder groups andprojects within each region. NGOs active inthe
regon will help to communicate findings to managers and help convert them into low-tech solutions for
direct application to developing country management needs. These include tool kits for managers, such as
the one The Nature Conservancy has prepared for building resilience into M P A design, as well as those
involvingbio-indicators to assess stress inkey reef species.

5. Value addedof Bankand Globalsupport in this project:
O f the 184 member countries o f the World Bank, more than 90 countries rely on coral reefs as natural
economic assets.      However, most o f these reefs and associated resources are components o f larger
transboundary marine ecosystems, which require multi-country approaches to manage and conserve. The
Bank has considerable experience in transboundary water resources management through a growing
portfolio o f Regional Seas and International Waters programs. More recently, experience in promoting
regional cooperation in the conservation and sustainable use o f the world's second longest barrier reef
system-the      Mesoamerican Barrier Reef System-has         provided a model for regional coordination,
involving multinational technical andpolicy working groups, onwhich the TR Project can build.

The Bank is in a unique position to provide global leadership on needed policy reforms that may be
implicated by the TR findings. World Bank Country and Sector Directors will be apprised periodically o f
the research results and their implications for the Bank's clients, by an intemal Project working group o f


                                                     - 24 -

BankTask Team Leaders of coastal and marineresource managementprojects. Resultcan form the basis
for ESW, flagging the value o f goods and services provided by coral reefs and what is at stake, or feed
directly into the Country Dialogue with clients with coral reefs, and the Country Assistance Strategy and
the PRSP process.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 IncrementalCost
0 Other(specify)
The activities and costs subsumed under this Project are entirely incremental, as they support global
learning and capacity building for science-based decision-making.       Baseline research activities in client
counties consist mostly o f coral reef monitoring and localized investigations. Apart from monitoring
activities, these efforts are not systematically networked at the national or regional level, nor are they
designed to shed light on specific stress response relationships, or the variability in response (i.e., in
resilience or vulnerability) that reef ecosystems may display depending on the type, intensity and
cumulative nature o f the stress. Incontrast, the GEF Targeted Research Project i s designed to focus on
strategic questions directly related to the sustainability o f coral reef ecosystems at different sites, under
varylng stress regimes, and to compare these results across regions. The interdisciplinary nature of the
working groups, the geographic and temporal scale o f the researchprogram (across four distinct coral reef
regions, over 15 years), and the networked nature o f the research, will require a degree o f cooperation and
support that cannot be sustained by any one country. The transboundary nature o f coral reef ecosystems,
the threats to their sustainability, and the fhdamental gaps in our understanding o f system behavior and
recovery potential, require a multinational effort that spans a range o f variability within and between
systems. Multinational working groups and cross regional learning and capacity buildingwill ensure that
this is a truly global effort, extending well beyond the boundaries of the research sites and countries
involved.

No other organization is presently undertaking such a coordinated and targeted program o f research to
inform managers and policymakers on cost-effective options for coral reef conservation and management.
This program would simply not be possible without GEF fhding. The GEF serves as an organizing force
around which a significant proportion o f the community o f practice for coral reef research is being united
for the first time. The preparation activities have galvanized partner participation, and have resulted in
resources and efforts to be realigned, but the GEF support will be catalytic in launching this Targeted
Research. The GEF will also serve as a powerful catalyst to leverage funds from an array o f partners and
collaborators who are committed to supporting one or more aspects o f the research. The critical mass o f
investigators and supporting institutions who are being brought together as a result o f this initiative will
have anunprecedentedimpact on the way ecosystemresearch is conducted inthe future.

An incremental cost analysis has been prepared and is attached as Annex 11. The total Project Cost is
estimated at US $22.3 million. GEF i s asked to contribute $11 million, or approximately half the cost o f
implementing this first phase o f the overall Targeted Research Program. Over $11.3 million has been
secured as cash and in-kindco-financing from a number o f sources. These include research institutions in
Australia, the U.S., Canada, the U.K., and Mexico; private foundations and corporations in the U.S.,
Australia and France, the state government o f Queensland and the University o f Queensland; and
intemational organizations includingthe World Bank (DGF Facility) and UNESCOAOC. Inaddition, over
$50 Million in satellite instrumentation, imagery and staff time has been leveraged from US NOAA to


                                                    - 25 -

support the work o f the Remote Sensing Working Group. New pledges o f support are already emerging as
the Project nears its final approval, with several expressions o f interest from the private sector. The
prospects for expanding the partnership, once it gains momentum, thus, are extremely high(see section on
Finance below).

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
The Project Executing Agency shall be the principal recipient o f GEF funds, other donor finds and funds
to be contributed by the participating governments. The PEA shall be filly accountable for all project
funds andshall ensure timely disbursement of finds to participatingproject implementinginstitutions. PEA
shall be responsible for overall project management and coordination including procurement, financial
management and project administration.       Figure 4, below, illustrates the Flow o f Funds model to
accommodate the diverse source o f funds (e.g. from the GEF, the Bank, Bi-laterals, foundations, and the
recipient) and new financing expected to emerge throughout Project implementation.




                      Figure 4 - Diagram of Funds Flow Model for the TargetedResearch.

Fiscal Impact:

N/A (no loans involved)

3. Technical:
The six targeted research working groups will coordinate investigations and results through use o f




                                                    -26-

complementary study designs and locations, and through targeted learningexchanges. By coordinating the
targeted investigations, the working groups are building an information base that can directly relate
findings across space and time (see Figure 1). Such complementary data collection not only strengthens
findings but also enhances correlations at different spatial scales. Investigations within many of the
Working Groups will also contribute to specific model development to support their respective areas o f
inquiry, andto contribute to the decision support. The standardoperating procedures developed under the
Project will contribute to more effective technical exchange by ensuring consistent application o f methods
andprotocols. This has tremendous implications for extending technical capacity and standard approaches
within the client countries. Combined with targeted learning exchanges, this technical approach allows a
broad spectrum o f researchers within both developed and developing countries to present and debate
relevant issues about priority hypotheses, the logistics required to implement targetedresearch, andto share
various experiences. This model is provingto be highly effective inknowledge sharing, andintranscending
previous communication barriers. Upgrades to intemet infrastructure for two o f the four COEs are planned
to increase information through-put and facilitate access to regional knowledge networks through these
nodes.

Inconcert withthe SynthesisPanel, the working groups members andsupporting staffwill design, planand
disseminate policy briefs andguidelines for the application of relevant findings into management andpolicy
operations. These will be made available directly to clients, Bank country teams and sector units, the GEF,
NGO community andto relevant intemational fora.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
Project execution will be carried out through a series o f mutually reinforcing institutional arrangements. A
partnership arrangement between the University o f Queensland, Australia and UNESCO-IOC, has been
determined to offer an optimal combination o f financial accountability, technical expertise, capacity
buildingandlong-term institutional commitment (including substantial co-financing ),to serve as the global
executing agency. At the field site level, four nodal agencies will be responsible for hosting the research,
helping to organize training workshops andinformation outreach activities. They will work closely with the
6 scientific workmg groups, who will be directly incharge o f organizing and leading the researchprogram.
Liaison with local and intemational NGOs with projects inthe region, andwith other projects andresearch
institutions who have expressed interest in collaborating in some aspect o f the TR Program will be
facilitated through this layered structure o f project execution.

As a result of the Block A consultations which engagedboth scientists andmanagers, a conscious decision
was made to limit the research to 3-4 key coral reef regions o f the world duringthe initial five year phase.
These regions were selected on the basis o fwhere there were already significant GEF andother investments
in coral reef management; where there was the beginning of a critical mass of coral reefs scientists and
infrastructure to support establishment o f a regional node (which could evolve into a Center o f Excellence
for coral reefresearch), andwith support fiom the Project could facilitate research and capacity buildingat
a number o f satellite sites.    The research nodes in these regions were carefully selected in coral reef
ecosystems where considerable baseline data was already available and where resident researchers were
engaged inresearchthat could both contribute to andbenefit fiom the targeted research objectives.

Under ideal circumstances and sipficantly larger financial resources, this project would have greater
spatial replication and site representation within each o f the regions identified, andwould reflect some sort


                                                       - 27 -

o f stratified random sampling design. However, there will never be enough financial resourcesto conduct
the kindof spatial replication that wouldberequiredto generaterigor andpower ina statistical context (i.e.
drawing mference over a sampling universe within a given region). As an alternative, this project has
approached the targeted research with a case-study model, whereby a limitednumber o f study sites have
been identified, in which a suite o f investigations around key themes is carried out and the information
integrated at each site.      Results will be compared across sites, where possible, to assess what
impacthesponse relationships may be global in scope as opposed to regional (in terms o f cumulative
impacts) or even local inscope. It is legitimate andnecessary to focus at the outset on a smaller number o f
sites untilthe effectiveness o fthe researchmodel(s) can be demonstrated.

It is the project's intention to expand the number of sites as the Program progresses through successive
phases and the working groups move toward filling critical information gaps through time. This is why the
Targeted Researchhas been conceived as a 15 year program. Sequencing is essential in light o f the human
and financial resources available and to allow consolidation o f results and reformulation o f hypotheses
before expanding into new regions and sites. (See Figures 1and2)

4.2 Project management:
Day to day administration o f the TR Project will be the responsibility o f the Project Executing Agency
(PEA). The PEA will have a fully dedicated staff to oversee project implementation and performance,
outreach and communication activities, and future planning (including development activities to identify
future co-financing and new partnerships).       Such a staff will include, at a minimum, a senior level
Executive Officer, an Administrative Assistant (to help with Sub-grant administration andprocurement), a
Data, Outreach and Capacity Building Officer, a Research and Education Coordinator and a Financial
Manager. These will be full time positions, preferably working out o f the same centralized project office.
Inaddition, the PEA willhire, as necessary, short termconsultants asrequired.

The PEA will receive technical oversight andprogrammatic direction from a Synthesis Panel andExecutive
Committee (see section on institutional arrangements). The PEA will report technical andfinancial progress
o f the Project semi-annually to the Bank with copies to the Synthesis Panel and Executive Committee for
comment. A full briefing on Project progress will be made to the Synthesis Panel during the annual
meetings o f the Synthesis Panel andExecutive Committee. Inaddition to the progress reports, the PEA will
submit a financial audit andannual work plans for the WGs, COEs and Synthesis Panel, approved by the
Executive Committee, to the Bank. TheBank will provide financial and technical oversight through
supervision missions andan intemal Bank Working Group, consisting o f staff with relevant projects.

Proiect Monitoring:andEvaluation
Project monitoring and evaluation will be the sharedresponsibility o f the Project ExecutingAgency andthe
Synthesis Panel. M&E o f progress by the Working Groups and Centers o f Excellence will be an ongoing
task o f the PEA, whose responsibility includes reviewing outputs against agreed workprograms and a
series o f performance indicators that will be included in the subgrant agreements between the PEA and
recipients. These will reflect outputs and outcomes described inAnnex 1o f the PAD and the agreed goals
and objectives of the specific Working Groups or Centers of Excellence. WG Chairs and COE
representatives will also be responsible for developing and submitting work programs for the next year to
the PEA. These will be reviewed initially by the Synthesis Panel andrecommendations for funding made to
the Executive Committee. An independent peer review of proposals will be commissioned periodically by
the Synthesis Panel to provide an arms length assessment o f the merit o f the sub-project proposal. These
recommendations along with those o f the Synthesis Panel will be passedon to the Executive Committee for
reviewandfinal allocation ofresources to the various subproject proposals.




                                                    - 28 -

The full Synthesis Panel will convene physically at least once a year to take stock o f the year's outcomes,
discuss any outstanding issues related to the direction o f the science, agree on publications to be developed
for the coming year, andreview proposals o f the WG andCOEs. Inbetweenmeetings, the SynthesisPanel
will communicate regularly through conference calls and e-mail. Extraordinary meetings of the Synthesis
Panel may be convened if necessary, although efforts will be made to convene these around other
conferences or meetings which Synthesis Panelmembersmay be attending.

Results o f these meetings will be documented in official minutes by the executive secretariat and
communicated to the PEA. The minutes o f the meetings and follow up actions will be included in
semi-annual technical and financial progress reports submittedto the Bank. These semi-annual reports will
also include the results o f supervision missions by PEA staff to research sites. Prior to being submittedto
the Bank, the semi-annual technical and financial progress reports will be reviewed by the Executive
Committee, which will have responsibility for approving the following year's research work program and
budget for each o f the six working groups and the four COEs. The scientific output o f the Project will be
continuously evaluated through publications inpeer reviewed journals and presentations at international
fora. A Mid-Term Review o f the Project at the end o f Year 3 will coincide with an evaluation o f the key
outcomes o f the Development Grant Facility financed components. These evaluations will assess progress
against performance benchmarks inAnnex 1toward meeting the GEF andProject Development Objectives.
4.3 Procurement issues:
No issues were identified during the appraisal mission. The executing agency has been assessed to be at
very low risk by the Bank. The University o f Queensland's procurement procedures mirror those o f the
Bankandthese will be usedfor the limitedprocurement to be carriedout by the PEA. A procurement plan
for these goods and services has been agreed. The majority o f the Grant funds will be disbursed through
subgrantswhich will not require a Bank approved procurement plan.
4.4 Financial management issues:
These are discussedinthe section on Financial Management arrangements inAnnex 6.
5. Environmental:                            EnvironmentalCategory: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertakenfor environmental assessment andEMP preparation(including
consultation anddisclosure) andthe significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Project is designed to enhance environmental sustainability. There are no negative environmental
issuedimpacts associated with this project. It is primarily a technical assistance project to build capacity
for science based management o f coral reef ecosystems. The approach is one o f trying to create the
investigative framework that will help reef scientists and managers understand the basis for ecosystem
vulnerability or resilience in the face o f key environmental stressors, such as climate change, land-based
sources o f pollution, disease, etc., andto develop tools that may be most cost-effective inreducingrisk and
enhancing sustainability. A Category C Environmental Rating has been assigned to the Project by the
Bank'sEnvironmental SafeguardsTeam.
 5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?

d a
 5.3 For Category A and Bprojects, timeline andstatus o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft:
 d a
 5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
 report on the environmentalimpacts andproposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms



                                                      -29-

o f consultation that were used andwhich groups were consulted?
nla
5.5 What mechanisms have beenestablishedto monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
nla
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Buildingcapacity for science-basedmanagement of coral reefs incountries where they occur will increase
the potential for appropriate and cost-effective management interventions, heighten accountability to the
public re: important conservatioddevelopment tradeoffs and create the basis for risk management in the
context o f environmental uncertainty. All o f these outcomes have substantial social benefits, particularly
for those communities dependent on coral reefs. For tourism dependent countries, strengthening the
informationbase to safeguardcoral reefs will have enormous economic benefits as well.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?
Participation o f stakeholders will be via workshops, collaborative research, exchange o f graduate students
and post-docs, publications, symposia and application of research results to policy and management of
coral reefs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOsor other civil society
organizations?
The results o f the researchwill feed directly into a variety o f management activities already inplace. Many
o f these are sponsored by NGOs and CBOs, working with communities to conserve coral reefs and ensure
their continued production of environmental goods and services (see figure 1inC). Among the NGOs with
which the Project will be working are: The Nature Conservancy, Conservation International, WWF, The
Wildlife Conservation Society, Environmental Defense, Centro Ecol6gico Akumal, Western IndianOcean
Marine Science Association (WIOMSA), and Society for the Conservation o f Reef Fish Spawning
Aggregations (SCRFA). The project will also work with NGOs to disseminate information, educate the
general public andprovide material for their advocacy work for marine conservation.
6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Social development outcomes are likely to be realized in the longer term. However, scientific capacity
buildingwill be a continuous feature of the Project and extend over the life of the Program. Inaddition,
access to information and tools by end users to improve management o f coral reefs and their productivity,
will be ensured through regular meetings between Working Groups and stakeholders, with the support o f
the Centers o f Excellence. The COEs will be responsble for ensuring outreach to endusers at the local and
regional levels to facilitate uptake o f new information and tools that will ultimately improve the
management o f coral reefresourcesandhelp sustain the flow o fbenefits from these ecosystems.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
The Project Executing Agency will monitor performance through a series o f performance indicators and
benchmarks that will be included inthe subgrant agreements with the Working Groups and the Centers o f
Excellence. This will be part o f the overall Monitoring andEvaluation System to be set upby the PEA.




                                                      - 30 -

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisionsmade by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N/A - this is a technical assistanceproject focused ontargeted researchandlearning. None of the activities
identified underthis project are likely to trigger any o f the Bank's Safeguard Policies.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project is envisioned as the first phase o f a long -term effort which will be sustained through a
coalition o f partners, built around a common agenda and measurable outcomes. GEF support is being
requested for this initial phase, which will serve as a proving ground for the targeted research model and a
platform for scaling up and replicating the model in subsequent phases. The requested level o f GEF
support in this early phase is critical in that it will serve as the primary catalyst to (i) a broad
                                                                                              build
coalition o f partners (within the scientific, NGO and management communities) committed to this effort
over the long term, (ii) mobilize the necessary humanand financial resources to undertake it, (iii)  re-align
ongoing and potential investments o f partners ina coordinated effort that will bring focus and cutting edge
science to a common research agenda, and (iv) facilitate the uptake o f new knowledge and tools derived
from the targeted research into the design and implementation o f GEF-supported activities related to coral
reefs.

A long-term approach is needed because coral reefs are influenced by processes over a wide range of
temporal and spatial scales. Research in other marine environments has consistently identified the need to
establish long-term studies and management trials (over at least 10 to 15 years) to better understand the
dynamics and drivers o f these systems. This is especially true o f coral reef ecosystems. Existingresearch
indicates that coral reefs fluctuate on several decade-long time scales, hence the need to sustain this effort
over a multiple phases. The results generated have the potential to eliminate much o f the uncertainty
characterizing coral reef management efforts to date and to transform management o f highly threatened
ecosystems from a reactive, empirical mode to a pro-active one.          This has important implications for
resource allocation, with a focus on preventive measuresto manage risks to coral reefs.

Despite the long-term nature o f these investigations, information products will be staged for delivery at
periodic intervals to provide interim benefits andtools for managers. Outreach workshops to communicate
the relevance o f investigations and their outputs to local communities and to those responsible for coastal
 and marine resources management will be organized annually by the Centers o f Excellence. Tools and
 guidance described in a box in Section C2, will be disseminated through knowledge networks within the



                                                      -31   -

coastal resources management community, and policy briefs will be circulated by the Synthesis Panel for
key audiences in the public policy and development communities. This periodic update o f management
relevant results will help sustain the commitment that will be required to reap the benefits o f targeted
investigations over the longer term. As this program o f research develops, the Centers o f Excellence
become stronger, and the working groups generate visible benefits for management andpolicy, it is hoped
that the project's partnerships will expand and that additional financing from research institutions,
governments and private foundations will be forthcoming, eliminating the need for further GEF support.
Linking the TR to Bank investments, as in Phase 2 o f the Indonesia Coral Reef Rehabilitation and
Management Project (COREMAP, which includes GEF support) and to a new blended (GEFADA) project
for Marine and Coastal Ecosystem Management in Tanzania, targeting rural coastal livelihoods and the
coastal andmarine resources which support them, will contribute to the sustainability andimpact o f the TR
Project.

GEF support duringpreparation and the promise of support for this initial phase have been absolutely
essential to securing the buy-inof key partners during Project implementation. Inaddition to direct Project
co-financing, significant investments in related activities have also been leveraged to coincide with this
initial phase o f the Project. While these leveraged investments lie outside the Project, the results will
contribute important knowledge toward filling gaps andstrengthening networking with scientists engagedin
the Targeted Research, thus also contributing to capacity building. Extending the TR effort to subsequent
phases will depend on the success o f this initial phase in achieving measurable outcomes and enlistingthe
necessary financial and institutional support for future investments. As in other examples of regional
Bank/GEF initiatives, these initial investments will serve to attract new resources by a range of partners,
helpingto institutionalize collaboration andsustain the Project through successivephases. It is anticipated
that partnerships will expand and additional financing from research institutions, governments and private
foundations will become the major source o f funding in the subsequent phases o f the program. There is
already substantial evidence that the groundwork has been laid for this to occur.

la. Replicability:
Because the TR Project is structured around discrete research themes andnetworks o f scientists it presents
infinite opportunities for replication and scale up. In this initial phase, the Project investigations will be
centered around four nodes and Centers o f Excellence. Consistent with the availability o f resources, the
research design calls for the 6 Working Groups to focus their investigations at these sites to lendpower to
their research through integration o f information across themes, ina case-study or demonstration project
approach.     The research agendas o f each o f the Working Groups, however, provide broad scope for
replication at satellite sites in the region, expanding collaboration with other scientists and institutions
around the node.     Similarly, the opportunity exists to expand to new nodes and Centers o f Excellence in
subsequent phases, as demand and resources dictate. Successful implementation in Phase 1will set the
stage for scale up and replication in subsequent phases. The focus in subsequent phases or regions may
shift away from filling basic knowledge gaps to strengthening capacity in coral reefcountries and tools and
interventions for better decision-making. Modeling and decision-support are among the tools that may be
refined as knowledge gaps are filled and effort shifts to the application o f knowledge to management. By
the end o f this five year phase, the Project will have documented a model for Targeted Researchwith wide
transferability to other GEF FocalAreas.




                                                      - 32 -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
Note "With respect to project objectives, there are no significant risks o f failure o f critical assumptions".

                    Risk                           Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure

The researchfindings do not leadto                      S          The project is designed to couple the research
demonstrable improvements in                                       with the managementandpolicy communities.
management or policies affecting coral                             The Centers o f Excellence have a role to play in
reefs.                                                             disseminating information locally to coastal
                                                                   resources usedmanagers, andto feed it up to
                                                                   policy makers at the national andregionallevel
                                                                   through periodic symposia andbriefings. The
                                                                    Synthesis Panelhas a similar role to play at the
                                                                    level of internationalpublic policy.
From Componentsto Outputs
Project Components 1-3.                                 M           Centers o f Excellence andassociatedacademic
Continued support for the project by                                institutions withinhost countries will need to be
researchersindeveloping and developed                               well integrated into the project, the benefits o f
country institutions is not sustained due to                        their participationclear andtangible, andthe
lack o fpolitical will or other priorities.                         importance o f their work recognized by
                                                                    management.
                                                                   ~




Project implementation (disbursements)                  M           The Universityo f Queensland has substantial
will be affected by complexity andscope                             experience inexecuting complex projects. Itha:
o f the Project.                                                    sound financial management and follows
                                                                    international standards inprocurement andgran
                                                                    administration. As partners inproject
                                                                    execution, UNESCO/IOC will work closely
                                                                    with the Centerso fExcellence to provide
                                                                    technical support and liaison with the PEA. The
                                                                     Bank Project Teamwill include representation
                                                                     fiom eachcountry team where there is a Center
                                                                     o f Excellence, and field based staff will carry
                                                                     out regular supervisionmissions.
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri:
M

3. PossibleControversial Aspects:
None

G. Main Grantconditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
Approvalby the Bank o f the Project Implementation Manual, which i s currently available indraft.
The PEA hasbeen established and adequately staffed.




                                                       - 33 -

2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]
da.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear's activities arecompleteandreadyforthestart
         ofproject implementation,
[XI 1.b) Not applicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start o f
       project implementation.
[XI 3. The Project Implementation Planhas been appraisedandfound to be realistic ando fsatisfactory
       quality.
   4. The following items are lackingandare discussedunderloan conditions (Section G):



I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
El1.Thisprojectcomplies withallapplicable Bankpolicies.
02.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bankpolicies.




Team Leader, ENV




                                                  - 34 -

                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
        WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Research and Capacity Buildingfor Management



Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:              Sector/ country reports:     rom Goal to Bank Mission)
The strategic goal o f this   1. Conservation o f coral       1. Global Status o f Coral   :ontinued commitment by
?rogrami s to enhance the     Peefsandthe goods and           ieefs Report (produced       ountries anddonors to
sustainability o f coral reef services they provide are       :very two years by           onserve andmanage coral
:cosystems as global          priorities for reef countries,  3CRMN).                      :ef ecosystems for
:ommons, whose goods and 1sreflectedineconomic                ?.National economic          ustainableuse.
services support the          developmentplans and            ievelopment plans, regional
.ivelihoods andsecurity o f   a.~pportfrom the                Aans, integratedcoastal
nillions o fpeople.           lntemational community.         nanagement plans, etc.
                              2. The CASes, PRSPs and 3. Commission on
                              CEAs o fcounties with           SustainableDevelopment
                              significant coral reefs         Reports; progress reports or
                              include discussion of the       follow upto WSSD targets
                              status o freefs, and their      3n coral reefs.
                              contributionto livelihoods      4. Scorecards/performance
                              andenvironmentall               reports o f ICRImembers.
                              economic security inthat
                              country.



GEF Operational Program:      Outcome I Impact
                              Indicators:
Intemational Waters: OP 9, 1.Formerly fragmented              1.Number and                  .Implementationo  fprojec
Multiple Focal Area:          coral reef research efforts     management-relevanceo f      )naglobal scale doesnot
To buildcapacity for          are coordinated andtargetec publications and reports         rove too complex to
science-basedmanagement       for the first time around key arising from national          ichieve objectives.
of transboundary marine       science andtechnology           researchagencies             !.Sustainedco-financing
ecosystemsunder threat        gaps.                           2. Project progress reports. )eyondfirst phase is
from climate change and       --A coalition ofscientists      3. National reports,         'Orthcoming.
multiple human stressors,     andresearchinstitutions         quantitatively improved,
through targeted research     from developed and              withhigher standardsof
andlearningacrossregions. developing countries is builr confidence presentedto
                              to support this effort.         meetings o f the Intemational
                              2. Major partners from          Coral ReefInitiative (ICRI)
                              different sectors are alignec 4. Annual reports from
                              with this initiative, building research institutions and
                              momentum toward a critica management agencies
                              mass o fresources and           associatedwith the
                              sustained commitment to thc management o f coral reefs.
                              targeted researchbeyondthc
                              initial phase.
                              --Increase innumbero f
                              partners contributing
                              -- Increasedinamount      o f


                                                          - 35 -

resourcesleveraged since
start o f Project
3. Results o fresearch are
peerreviewedannually for
quality control andproduct
delivery against agreed
benchmarks; synthesized;
interpretedanddisseminated
to different audiences.
4. Results are linkedto
managementsuch that coral
reefmanagersare
empoweredwith knowledge
andtools to make better
decisions
5. Institutional andhuman
capacity for science-based
management o f coral reef
ecosystemsis builtin
participating countries
where coral reefs are found.
--COEs fully engagedin
hostingresearchand
training by EOP.
6. Policies inparticipating
countries to protect coral
reefs or mitigate impacts
from key stressors are
strengthened as a result o f
new information.
--Atleast 1example of
policy adoption or reform in
favor o f coral reefs
documented by EOP.
7. Researchfindings are
mainstreamed into World
Bankcountry dialogue and
assistance strategies for
countries with coral reefs.
8. Coralreefmanagement
projects under early
implementation or in
preparation -many with
GEF support -incorporate
researchfindings andlinks
to TR inproject design.
9. The GEFuses results to
 guide future resource
allocations to address cross


                          - 36 -

                             uttingissuesinClimate
                             :hange, Intemational
                             Vaters andBiodiversity in
                             he context o f
                             "boundary      water
                             esourcesmgt, andto guide
                             :lients inthe design o f
                             arge-scale targeted
                             esearch.




jlobal Objective:            Iutcome I Impact             'roject reports:            from Objectiveto Goal)
                             ndicators:
To fill critical science and 3vidence o f mainstreaming
echnology gaps that          iew knowledge andtools
:urrentlyimpede effective    e.g., intoNGO toolkits
nanagementandinformed        lroducedfor M P A and
lecision-making onbehalf     :oral reefmanagers, and
)fcoralreefs. Tobuild        nto policy briefings for
iuch capacity incountries    iecision-makers) by EOP.
where coral reefs occur, an(
hereby improve the
irospects for sustainability
Ifreefsandthe goodsand
servicesthey provide to
nillions o fpeople.




3utput from each             3utput Indicators:           Projectreports:              (fromOutputs to Objective)
Zomponent:
1. Addressing knowledge      1. a. Five intemational      1.Projectreports             Coral reefs continue to
mdtechnology gaps:           working groups established 2. Publications                provide a major source o f
--Uncoveringcritical         mdconductingresearch         3. Website content and       protein andincome to
~nknownsthat contribute tc under sub-project              visitation frequency         millions ofpoor people
improvedmanagement.          agreements at at least 1     4. Formal feedback fiom      livinginthe tropical coastal
-Developing new tools and COE by Yr 1.                    workshops                    areas, andthus managemenl
techniques for assessing     --Stateo f knowledge o f     5. Feedback fiom project     o f coral reefresources
;oral reef stress, andfor    each WG focal area           participants (e.g., recorded continues to be a high
rehabilitating damaged       summarized ina TR            on website forum area)       priority indeveloping
reefs.                       publication by end o fYear                                countries with significant
                             1to serve as knowledge                                    coral reefresources.
                             baseline.
                             --Atleast 3 diagnostic tools


                                                      - 37 -

                            mlineby end ofyear 2.
                            .-At least 2 policy briefs
                             Ireparedanddisseminated
                             o environmental policy
                            :omunity by EOP
                             -- At least five major
                             cnowledge products (see
                            Box inPAD C 2)
                            Zenerated and
                            jisseminated by EOP.
2. Promoting scientific      2. Developingcountry           , a. Publications inpeer
learning andcapacity        yaduate students and early      :viewedjournals andStaff
building:                    :areer researchers included    rofile o f TR Project
Scientists andstudents with nthe researchactivities o f
enhancedcapacity to engage 111working groups by Year
intargeted research.         2 (At least 20 graduate or
Institutions with increased  3ost-doctoral fellowships
capacity to engage in        supportedby the Project by
                             EOP);
                             b.Active collaboration         . Project progress reports.
                             Detweendeveloped and
                             developing countryscientists
                             inresearchactivities;
                             improvedresearchand
                             technical capabilities o f
                             developing country
                             institutions;
                             c. Regular exchanges o f       .Project   progress reports.
                             academic staff andstudents     'roject website.
                             betweendeveloping and
                             developed country
                             institutionsby EOP
                             d. Multiple publications o f   ..Peer reviewedjournals
                             researchresults inpeer
                             reviewedjournals by
                             developedanddeveloping
                             country scientists for each
                             WG. Enhancedpublishing
                             by COE staff in
                             peer-reviewedjournals (e.g.
                             rate more thandoubles by
                             EOP).
 3. Linking scientific       3. a. Synthesis Panelmeets     ..Project  progress reports.
 knowledge to management     at least once@ andagrees
                             on agenda andoutputs for
                             year 1(Secretariat
                             established by project
                             effectiveness)
I



                                                       - 38 -

1. Work programs for all
WIGS reviewed and
tpproved for Year 1; andat
east 10 sub-project
igreementsnegotiated and
Iisbursedby endo fYear 1;
sub-project agreementswith
111COEs negotiated and
iisbursedby endofYear 1
:. Workshops with               :. TR Projectpublication
nanagers andother local         ries; Project website;
stakeholders stagedat           her project websites linked
strategic points throughout      TR Project
:he project; Symposia (at
.east2 by end o f year 4)
)ringingtogethermultiple
lisciplines (e.g., 1egaVpolicy
:xperts, social scientist and
natural resource economists
along with marine
scientists) periodically
convenedto discuss and
interpret implications o f
researchfindings;
management information
andpolicybriefs published
periodically; a dynamic
database o fknowledge
generatedby the Project
established and sustained,
andaccessibleto managers
inuser friendly formats by
endofYear 2.
3d. Decision support tools,     d. Management strategies
including scenario building     1 target countries
andother visualization
techniques, to demonstrate
likely outcomeso f
 development decisions and
 economic policies on line at
 3 o f 4 COEs by EOP.
 3e. Tools (e.g., diagnostic     e. Project reports
 kits) andModels being used
 collaboratively by
 researchersandmanagers
 on actual management
 issues by EOP.
 3f, Adaptive management         f.Symposiaproceedings



                           - 39 -

                         process) model developed
                         mdimplemented for Project
                         o guide direction fiom
                         jynthesis Panel.
                         Ig.At least one major
                         ,ymposium hosted at each
                         ZOEto disseminate and
                         nterpret researchfindings
                         'or policymakers and
                         nanagers inthe region.
                         )h.World Bankinternal
                         NorkingGroup is briefed
                         kequently by the SP on key
                         indings andother issues
                           .elevantto policy.
                           3 i . At least one example o f  i.CountryAssistance
                         iolicy dialogue between a         ltrategies
                         World Bank Country
                           Iirector and client on action
                           :oreduce/mitigate stress on
                           :oral reefs documented by
                           EOP.

                           La. PEA fully staffed and       'roject reports
                           Jperational within 6 months
                           3 f effectiveness.              3ank supervision reports
                           b. Sub-project agreement
                           negotiated andfirst year
                           sub-grantsdisbursed to all
                           WG by 1stquarter o f
                           CY05.
                           c. Periodic site visits made
                           to COEs as needed
                           c. Knowledge management
                           system up andrunningby
                           Year 2.



                           Inputs: (budget for each        'roject reports:          :fromComponents to
                           component)                                                3utputs)
1. Addressingkey           1.$11.2M                        Progressreports and       Continued support for the
knowledge andtechnology                                    disbursemend expenditure  project bypartners andby
gaps.                                                      reports                   researchersindeveloping
                           i                                                         anddeveloped country
                                                                                     institutions.
2. Promoting scientific    2. $4.20M                       Project Reports onno. of
learningandcapacity                                        graduate andpostdoctoral
building.                                                  studentstrained between
                                                           WG institutions and COEs;                       -1

                                                       - 40 -

--                         _ _ _ _ _ ~
                                            mdWG institutional
                                            reports.
I.Linkingscientific       I. $4.OM          Project Reports and number
mowledge to management.                     a fpolicy briefs produced,
                                            participatingNGO annual
                                            reports; refereed
                                            publications creditedto the
                                            TR.
I. Project Administration  f . $2.9M        Semi-annualtechnical and
                                            financial progress reports




                                          -41 -

                               Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
      WORLD: Coral ReefTargeted Research and Capacity Buildingfor Management

Coral reefs play a key role for the functioning o f tropical coastal ecosystems and for the large coastal
populations that depend on reef resources for their daily livelihoods. Complex and productive, coral reefs
include an overall biodiversity that is critical for the ecosystem's natural ability to respond to environmental
change. Coral reefs also provide critical resources (e.g. fish, tourism, coastal protection, etc) for some 500
million people that depended either totally or partially on reefs (Wilkinson, 2002). Coral reefs are under
pressure from a wide m a y o f humaninfluences. Recent evidence also reveals that coral reefs are sensitive
to environmental changes like climate change (Hoegh-Guldberg 1999; IPCC 2001). As a result o f such
pressures, coral reefs are in decline in almost every region o f the world. Recent estimates put the rate of
decline at somewhere between 40 and 60% of the world's coral reefs over the next 50 years unless
appropriate steps are taken (GCRMN 2000). This has huge ramifications for a large number o f human
societies andendeavors as well as the inherent aesthetics o f our coastal ecosystems.

Understanding how these changes will manifest themselves and how the impact on human and reef
communities can be eliminated or minimizedis an urgent priority. Despite significant progress over the last
two decades, there are many key gaps inour basic understanding o f coral reef function and dynamics. The
Coral Reef Targeted Research and Capacity Building program has been established to address these
fundamental information gaps in our understanding o f coral reef ecosystems, so that management options
andpolicy interventions canbe strengthenedglobally. For the first time inhistory, this project willjointhe
collective effort o f many o f the World's leading coral reef scientists to coordinate research efforts and
address key outstanding questions about the health o f coral reefs. The program is being developed inphases
over 15 years, andthrough focused and systematic research, is working to effectively support management
and policy and to better integrate resulting information with other disciplines, such as economics and law.
The program will also enhance the capacity of researchers, students and managers within developing
countries, so that a global network can effectively share the most up-to-date research to benefit regional,
national andlocal management actions andpolicy.

The Program is coordinated across four geographic nodes, representing key coral reef regions o f the world,
and focused around six key themes which will address essential science and technology gaps in our
understanding of what drives coral reef ecosystem sustainability.            The Targeted Research Program
framework consists o fthree strategic elements:
                                                                      ,

     1. Addressing knowledge andtechnology gaps
     2.  Promoting Learning andCapacity Building
     3,   Linkingscientific knowledge to management
     4.  Project Administration and Coordination

 By Component:

 ProjectComponent I US$11.20million
                       -
 I.KeyKnowledgeGaps(GEF=US$8.0)(OtherCofinancing=US$3.2)
 A. Targeted Investigations andWorking Groups
 To address these science and technology gaps, six Working Groups, comprised o f developed and
 developing country scientists who are internationally regarded intheir fields, have beenformed to focus and
 coordinate researcharoundkey themes. A guidingSynthesis Panelhas been formed to play a crucial role in
 overseeing the quality anddirection o f the research, andto integrate research findings such that the whole is



                                                        -42-

greater thanthe sum o f its parts.

Under Component 1, targeted investigations o f five o f the six Working Groups will be supported. The
research o f the sixth Working Group, "Modeling and Decision Support," will be supported under
Component 3 (Linking Science to Management) as the main objective o f this WG is to link science to
management by helpingto integrate the results o f the other five Working Groups into a descriptive model of
the coral reef ecosystem that i s being investigated. The model is intended to serve as a scenario building
tool for managers and policymakers to help them visualize the ecological and socio-economic impacts o f
their decisions on coral reefs.

(1) Coral Bleaching and Local Ecological ResponsesWorking Group (BWG): Ove Hoegh-Guldberg,
Chair, University o f Queensland, Australia Members: Yossi Loya, Co-Chair, University o f Tel Aviv,
Israel, Bill Fitt, (Cellular responses, USA); Helen T. Yap (Local ecological responses, Philippines); John
Bythel (Local ecological responses, UK); Rob van Woesik (Local ecological responses, Japan/USA);
Roberto Iglesias-Prieto (Molecular mechanisdmarkers, Mexico); Ruth Gates (Cellular responses, USA);
Barbara Brown (Cellular responses, UK); Michael Lesser (Cellular responses, USA); Ron Johnstone
(Local ecological responses, Australia); Tim McClannahan (Local ecological responses, Kenya) Nyawira
Muthiga (Local ecological responses Kenya) David Obura (Local ecological responses, Kenya); Ole
Vestergaard, Coordination (IOCAJNESCO, France)

The Bleaching Working Group was founded by the UNESCO/Intergovemmental                       Oceanographic
Commission (IOC) in April o f 2001. The group's initial terms o f reference included the development o f
indicators specifically for coral bleaching. Subsequently, it expanded its mandate to examine specific
physiological mechanisms for coral bleaching as well as the local ecological factors that precipitate
bleaching and its after-effects, and differences between direct humanstresses with those related to climate
change.

The Working Group has prioritized hypotheses at various levels of interaction related to stress tolerance
andthe basis for vulnerability andresilience corals reefs to bleaching. Examples include the following:
    0    Molecular-level Hypotheses: i)The basis o f heat stress tolerance in corals rests inthe molecular
         mechanisms that reduce photoinhibition. ii)Failure of the primary steps o f photosynthesis leads to
         a build-up o f oxygen radicals, which then cause cellular damage. iii)Both coral host and
         zooxanthellae have a series o f coral bleaching specific markersthat may be useful as bio-markers.
    0    Cellular and Physiological Hypotheses: i)Coral bleachingandmortality is drivenby the primary
         variable elevated temperature but is influenced by light, flow and other factors. ii)Thermal stress
         will reduce growth rates, coral metabolism, and regenerative capacity iii)Seasonal fluctuations in
         the density and quality o f zooxanthellae are important to understandingcoral bleaching.
    0    Within-Reef Ecological-level Hypotheses: i)Climate change will reduce reef resilience by:
         increasing whole colony mortality on coral reefs, changing differential mortality patterns (species,
         size) reducing recruitment (loss during larvalphase failure o f settlement), having a greater effect
         on larval survival compared to the adult phase, causing a change in relative abundance o f
         populations, size frequency distributions, andcausing a functional shift. ii)Other stressors (natural
         andor anthropogenic) will have a compounding effect on the tolerance o f corals andzooxanthellae
         to thermal stress.

(2) Connectivity and Large-Scale Ecological Processes Working Group (CWG): Peter F. Sale, Chair
University o f Windsor, Canada (fish ecology, recruitment)
Members: Menchie Ablan (fisheries genetics, Malaysiflhilippines); Emesto Arias (fish and coral ecology,
Mexico); Mark Butler (lobster biology, recruitment, USA); Bob Cowen (fisheries oceanography, larval


                                                     - 43 -

biology, USA); Geoff Jones (fish ecology, recruitment, Australia); Serge Planes (fish genetics, France);
Barry Ruddick (physical oceanography, Canada); Bob Steneck (coral reef ecology, coral recruitment,
USA); A h a Szmant (coral biology, recruitment, USA); Simon Thorrold (fish otolith microchemistry,
USA); Yvonne Sadovy (fisheries ecology, China); Bret Danilowicz (fishrecruitment, stock discrimination,
IrelandAJSA); Ken Lindeman (fish ecology, USA); Enric Sala (grouper biology, USA); Mary Alice
Coffroth (coral genetics, USA)

Coral reefs are patchily distributed in an ocean that provides the possibility o f transport among them.
Presently, the design of Marine Protected Areas (MPA) containing coral reefs and their implementation
uses educated guesses to decide appropriate spatial scales and pattems o f placement, and there is little
information to determine whether these guesses are even approximately correct. As levels o f direct
exploitation o f coral reef resources rise, and as other pressures on reefs and increased use o f coastal
environments intensify, it becomes increasingly important that the establishment o f spatially explicit
management is done at correct spatial scales - ones compatible with known pattems o f "connectivity" o f
target populations.

Connectivity can be defined as the flux o f items between locations. It exists for nutrients, sediments, and
pollutants, but inthe context o f coral reef management, connectivity inthe form of the effective transfer of
individuals (usually pelagic larvae) between local populations is the most important, and also the most
difficult to measure. While the transfers o f non-living materials are likely to be determined primarily by
local and regional hydrodynamics, we know that the transfer o f organisms (demographic connectivity) is
more complex since passive transport due to hydrodynamics is modified by the sensory and behavioral
capabilities o f marine larvae. Effective transfer also involves successful establishment as a part o f a
breeding population, so connectivity among populations is not simply measured by focusing on dispersal
pattems, but must include successfulrecruitment to the receiving population.

At present we lack quantitative data on demographic connectivity, yet these data are essential ifwe are to
improve our ability to design and implement networks o f MPAs and other spatially explicit management
systems. The use o f MPAs presupposes connectivity. Either MPAs are established at a size believedlarge
enough to encompassall phases o f the life cycle o f species beingsustained, or they are established at a size,
and in spatial arrangements with respect to un-protected sites, that will foster enhanced recruitment o f
species to these surrounding sites due to dispersal beyondMPA boundaries.

The Connectivity Working Group is targetingthese fundamental gaps inour knowledge. It is beghung its
work inselected areas within the various regions o f the program with the aim to develop specific tools and
techniques necessary to address these critical questions. The Group's initial focus involves the following
research:

 Larvalbiologyand behavior.By studyingseveral organisms simultaneously          -- rangingfrom spiny lobster
 with very lengthy larval phases, to corals with much shorted larval durations, to fishes with active larval
 swimming behavior     -- the CWG will provide critical knowledge o f the potential o f connectivity in
 furtheringmanagementandconservation.

 Hydrodynamic and biophysical models to predict dispersal. The spatial and temporal pattems in
 abundance o f new recruits must be driven initially by pattems o f dispersal from source locations in a
 region. Using biophysical models to track dispersal through larval life fiom selected source locations, it
 shouldbe possible to generatemaps o f `settlement intensity' to compare with observed recruitment pattems.
 Congruence will suggest that models are sufficiently precise to describe pattems o f connectivity among
 locations. Deviations will drive further work to improve hydrodynamic models, and to explore capabilities


                                                     - 44 -

for active movement. The nature of the deviations will provide cues to factors that may be important in
determining connectivitypattems for various species.

Genetics. Flux experiments on corals and fish will use genetic data to reliably identify progeny fiom
particular mass spawnings and dispersals. Coral studies will also use genetic pattems expressed incohorts
o f differing age to determine if there have been measurable changes in pattems of connectivity in recent
decades (during a time when Caribbean coral populations have suffered serious declines).

Otolith chemistry (inner ear bones within fishes). Work with fish will take advantage o f the possibility
that otoliths o f larvae can be given a unique tag by administering a chemical to the females immediately
prior to spawning. A second 'marking' methodwill rely on collection o f sufficient genetic information from
the spawning aggregation that a 'paternity analysis' can be usedto screen collected recruits. The fish flux
experiments will also tag the aggregating adults extemally so that the 'catchment area' o f the aggregation
can be establishedusingtag returns to locate animals after they have dispersed.

Recruitment monitoring. Studies o f recruitment will be substantially extended by targeted research on
early post-settlement survivorship and growth of selected species. The underlying hypothesis driving this
work is that there are major bottlenecks to successful recruitment o f corals that occur after completion o f
the larval phase. Understanding the causes o f these bottlenecks, and therefore the conditions under which
connectivity may or may not be achieved is clearly fundamental to a full description o f coral reef
connectivity.

Built into this targeted research, the CWG will be working with local managers and scientists in
undertakingthese experiments, so that genuine transfer of tools andtechniques will take place, and so that
ajoint understandingo f the findings will have direct application towards improved management.

(3) Coral Disease Working Group (DWG): C. Drew Harvell, Chair, Come11 University, Ithaca, NY,
USA
Members: Garriet Smith, Co-Chair, (USA); Farooq h a m (USA), Eric Jordan (Mexico), Esther Koh
(Singapore), Eugene Rosenberg (Israel), Emesto Weil (Puerto Rico), Bette Willis (Australia), Laurie
Raymundo, (Philippines/Guam).

Over the last 20 years, unprecedented increases in disease on coral reefs have contributed significantly to
coral reef degradation. Disease-related damage o f coral reefs has been well documented inthe Caribbean,
but recent observations of coral disease in other regions of the world are just beginning, and disease
occurrence in these other regions may be a potential harbinger for increasing outbreaks and impacts
associatedwith increasedclimate warming. What has promptedthis rapid emergence o f coral disease?

The Disease Working Group is targeting investigations to address this question, to understand this
emergent problem and to develop tools and responses that can be used for management. The Disease
Worlung Group is basing its work program around the following major tasks andhypotheses:

    0     Identify major coral diseases. What diseases are global intheir distribution?
    0     Infectious disease significantly reducescoral reefbiodiversity. Can some diseases enhance
    0     biodiversity?
    0     Coraldisease (and pathogenic organisms) are higher during bleaching eventsand inmore
          bleachedlocales. Are bleached corals more sensitive to super-infection with other pathogens?
    0     CoralDiseaseprevalence and severity are higher in high nitrogen eutrophic situations. Does



                                                    - 4 5 -

         chronic stress (such as eutrophication) result inhigher incidences o f disease?
    0    What is the hostrangeof knowncoralpathogens?
    0    Remediationfor coraldisease.Canantimicrobial agents limitinfections?

(4) CoralRestorationandRemediationWorkingGroup(RRWG): Alasdair Edwards, Chair,
University o fNewcastle, U.K.
Members: Edgardo D. Gomez, Co-Chair (Philippines), Loke Ming Chou (Singapore), Andrew Hayward
(Australia), Richard E. Dodge (Caribbean), Johann Bell (Malaysia), Baruch Rinkevich (Israel), Aileen
Morse (USA), Tadashi Kimura (Japan), Abdul Azeez Abdul Hakeem (Maldives).

The world-wide degradation of coral reefs, particularly in the last two decades, has prompted greater
attention to remediationandrestoration. This has resulted ina wide rangeo f initiatives broadly classified as
improvingthe existing condition o f impacted coral reefs (mainly through humaninfluence). Early initiatives
have focused more on artificial reefs where "reefs", or more accurately "fish-aggregating devices" are
created on non-coral reef platforms, mainly to enhance fisheries production. While this approach is still
beingexpandedmore recent activities havebeendirected specifically at restoringdegradedcoralreefs.

The diversity and scale o f remediatiodrestoration activities vary tremendously. They cover habitat
modification, coral transplantation, species re-introduction, and recruitment potential enhancement. Some
o f these interventions involve large-scale sub-tidal structures designed to facilitate natural colonization of
reef-related species, while others use simpler and less costly approaches that are more readily replicated.

Reef remediation andrestoration will continue to have an increasingly important role and efforts are likely
to expand in the future. However, viable approaches and technologies are in relatively early stages o f
development, and inmost cases are currently difficult to implement on large spatial scales.

Reef remediatiodrestoration should not replace reef protection as the first management option. However,
large areas of degradedreefs make it unavoidable to ignore remediationandrestoration action. The loss of
biological and economic services from degraded reefs continually emphasize the need for maintaining the
ecosystem, andwhere degraded, to restore it to a level where significance can once again be realized.

The Restoration and Remediation Working Group is examining the state o f restoration and remediation
techniques and is targeting investigations to test the efficacy o f a range o f potential applications. The
researchincludes the following considerations:
     0   the scientific protocols necessaryto design andimplement restoration strategies
     0   baseline data for developing effective criteria
     0   the efficacy and feasibility o frestoration andremediationtechniques
     0   prospects for enhancing natural recovery
     0   opportunities to combine reefremediation with small andmicro-enterprise at the local level.

The Restoration and Remediation Working Group will coordinate its investigations with other Targeted
ResearchWorking Groups to consider implementingjoint research into remediation or restoration options,
especially with the Bleaching, Disease andConnectivity Working Groups.

(5) RemoteSensingWorking Group (RSWG): Peter J. Mumby, Chair, Universityo fExeter, U.K.

Members: Laura David, Co-chair (Philippines), Ian Gillett (Caribbean, Belize), Jack Hardy (Caribbean,
Indo-Pacific, USA); Eric Hochberg (Caribbean, Indo-Pacific, USA), Ellsworth LaDrew (Caribbean,
Indo-Pacific, Canada), William Slurving (Indo-Pacific, Australia); A1 Strong (Caribbean, Indo-Pacific,


                                                      - 46 -

USA); Mary Vasquez (Caribbean, Belize).

The Remote Sensing Working Group will be developing and testing a wide range o f remote sensing tools,
including satellite, airbome, acoustic and insitu methods. Prior to this Targeted Researcheffort, the remote
sensing o f coral reefs has been conducted on an ad-hoc basis with little consistency or general insight into
its limitations. For example, we know that some aspects of reef health can be resolved on shallow reefs in
FrenchPolynesia but we cannot predict whether this would be a realistic expectation insay Jamaica, where
reefs have a different flora and fauna, are located in deeper water, and where light penetration is slightly
reduced because o f higher suspended sediment concentrations in the water column. Without a generic
understanding o f the limitations o f reef remote sensing, the technology may continue to be oversold or
deployed for unrealistic managementobjectives, resultinginan inappropriate use o f financial resources.

The RSWG will quantify the limitations o f coral reef remote sensing by combining radiative transfer
modeling and field experiments. Models predict the ability o f a given remote sensing instrument to detect
the subtleties of bottom reflectance that distinguish reef habitats or the cover of corals and macroalgae
within habitats. While the passage of light through the water column is relatively well understood, the
interaction o f light between reef organisms, many o f which have complex structures, presents a research
challenge. We address this problemusingmethods which were originally developed inthe computer graphic
industry. Coral structures are divided into thousands of individual patches, each of which behaves as a
specialized reflecting surface. On reaching the reef, sunlight is reflected and scattered in predictable
directions, from which we can calculate the net light recordedby the sensor once it haspassedback through
the water and atmosphere. Computer models will be refinedandtested inthe laboratory andthentested
under fieldconditions inaunique, large-scaleremote sensingexperiment.

The RSWGwill also provide tools to identify various coral reefhabitat types andpossibly predict the cover
o f corals andalgae on a reef. These tools require highresolutionimagery anddirect field survey at the time
o f image acquisition and therefore have limited application to archived or lower-resolution imagery. A
wealth o f satellite and photographic data are often available for reefs, sometimes archived as far back as
World War 11. We will conduct a number o f activities to improve the way in which changes in reef
condition can be predicted indirectly usingremote sensing. These methods will highlightwhich areas o f the
coast have undergone the greatest change and help managers quantify the rate o f change in coral reef
habitats.

Recent remote sensing researchhas improved the detail o f reefhabitat maps but the interpretation and uses
 o f these products for management and measuring and evaluating biodiversity has received relatively little
 attention. Specifically, what do habitat maps mean in terms o f biodiversity and reef function and how
 should they be used for conservation planning? For example, many reserve selection algorithms require an
 extensive database o f species' distributions which are costly and logistically difficult to establish. Remote
 sensing could largely replace intensive site-specific biodiversity surveys if the value o f habitats as a
 surrogate for species (or functional) diversitywere established ina variety o f environments. The Targeted
 Research framework provides an unrivalled opportunity for taxonomic capacity within its Centers o f
 Excellence and to quantify the ecological basis o fhabitat maps.

 Inadditionto improvingthe capability ofremote sensing to help assess coralreefs, this working group will
 also provide technical assistance to the other working groups that might benefit from the use o f remote
 sensing products to complete their investigations. Finally, the RSWG will organize a wide variety o f
 oceanographic andatmospheric remote sensingproducts into an International Oceanographic Atlas andwill
 makethemavailable for reef andcoastalmanagementwithina single website.




                                                     -47-

B. ResearchWorkshopsandAcademic MentoringbyWorkingGroup Members
As part of the research to be led by each Working Group, workshops will be organized by the Working
Group chairs at each Center o f Excellence to host the research. This will serve to bringtogether the various
members of the Working Group(s) to launch the researchand to orient local scientists and researchersin
the region about the targeted investigations to be carried out at the Center of Excellence. The workshops
will be a combination of knowledge sharing and field work, demonstrating the techniques to be used and
introducing graduate students, post docs and resident scientists to the research that will be carried out.
Support for collaborative research on local research priorities that will benefit from the expertise and
guidance o f Working Group Members will be provided under Component 2, Promoting Scientific Learning
andCapacity Building.

Research scholarships for developing country graduate and post-doctoral students will be a major
component o f all the Working Group research. Wherever possible, developing country students will be
recruited into the research laboratories of Working Group members to carry out investigations as part o f
the TR Program and to complete degreeprograms under Working Group member supervision. The level of
involvement will be fully defined during the startup of each research component and will depend on the
availability o f suitable students. This could range from full scholarships to undertake work in the
institute(s) of developed country Working Group members, to joint supervision between developed and
developing country W G members. This would involve a proportion o f the time spent intraining within the
developed country institute(s), or simply the incorporation o f a component o f a local student's research
project into the local activities o f the group, with the student benefiting from the advice and interactions o f
working group members during field visits. A definitive list o f developing country student involvement is
not yet available, but initial plans envisage up to 23 masters and PhD students, and 8 Postdocs being
supported under the project. The sharing o f at least four o f the postdoctoral fellowships may be supported
inpartnership withthe IntemationalSociety ofReefStudies.

The senior scientists involvedineach working group all have excellent publication records and a concerted
effort will be made to publish results with developing country counterparts inpeer-reviewed journals. The
chance to publish with some o f the most senior figures in each field will constitute an important capacity
buildingcomponent for both students and early career scientists in all groups. The publications will be
supplementedby other reports andinformationbriefs written for more general audiences.

ProjectComponent2 US$4.20 million
                       -
11. ScientificLearningandCapacityBuilding(GEF=US$1.2 M;DGF=US$1.7 M;other
 Co-finance=US$1.3 M)

Each of the Targeted Research Working Groups will carry out the majority o f their field work in
 developing countries. Four regional nodes have been selected that reflect the biological diversity o f coral
 reefs throughout the world, andhave the capacity to serve as Centers o f Excellence (COE).




                                                        - 48 -

The four nodes occur within three major coral reef regions -- the westem Pacific, including SoutheastAsia
(which is the center o f coral reef biodiversity), the Indian Ocean (which has suffered extensively from
recent episodes o f coral bleaching associatedwith climate change), and the westem Atlantic (whose reefs
are substantially different from Pacific and IndianOcean reefs). The locations have been selected on the
basis o f significant ongoing investments in coral reef management, and where considerable baseline data
already exist, along with a critical mass o f coral reef scientists and infrastructure -- essential to carrying
out coordinated research. Ineach o f these four areas, a Center o f Excellence (COE) has been identified

    0    Westem Caribbean: UniversidadNacional Authoma de MCxico
    0    Eastem Africa: University o f Dar Es Salaam, Marine Science Institute, Zanzibar, Tanzania
    0     SoutheastAsia: Marine Science Institute, University o f the Philippines
    0     South PacifdAustralasia: University o f Queensland, Australia

During the first years Mexico, Heron Islandand the Philippines will be the most active sites. Palau' and
Belize will also be involved to a lesser extent at this time. The SynthesisPanel will hold its Year 1meeting
inZanzibar, withthe intent to beginworking group collaborationthere inyears 2 or 3. Otherpotential sites
will be brought into the program in a progressive manner, possibly toward the end of phase 1, depending
upon the success o f working group integrationat the core sites andthe need for spatial replication.
I
 The Governmentof Palau, throughthe InternationalCoralReefCenter, is exploring partnershiparrangements with the TR Projectto host someof
the WG research as asatellitesite


Activities:
A. Institutional Strengthening of Centers ofExcellence (US $2.9 M)
Four regional nodes with the capacity to develop into Centers o f Excellence for Coral Reef Researchwill
host the research o f the Working Groups. They will serve as a convening location for the Working Groups
to meet and discuss the research priorities with regional and local scientists in a collaborative spirit.
Furthermore, they will also serve as convening locations at specific periods to work with regional and local
managers to consider how the findings can be applied within management contexts. Research plans,
standard methods and development of capacity are being coordinated to maximize the level of effort


                                                               - 49 -

between as many of the sites andworking groups as possible. Eachof the working groups will conduct core
elements o f their investigations inat least two o f the four locations duringthe first phaseo f the Program.

As hosts for the investigations, the COEs also serve as the focal points for scientific learning exchanges,
led by the various Working Groups under Component 1. The project will support a series o f workshops
each year which will bring researchers from the various working groups together to orient field research,
brief one another on findings and, based on these results, modify and design the subsequent phases o f
targeted research. Through the Centers o f Excellence, working group members will engage with other
researchers fkom within the region, as well as other working groups, andwill jointly conduct investigations,
share knowledge and engage in training opportunities with doctoral and post-doctoral students from
participating developing countries. Based on experiences during the project development phase,
apprenticeship-type models proved to be highly successfulby combining world-class, seasoned researchers
with younger post-doctoral and graduate students in a supportive working environment. This brings
Intemational expertise in the development and use o f various techniques and investigative strategies that
will provide opportunities for regional and local researchersto benefit. The involvement of post-graduates
is supported through stipends andresearch scholarships. Each Center will identify a representative to serve
on the Synthesis Panel (see Component I11below), who will be responsible for coordinating the researchto
be carried out by the various Working Groups and oversee training in research techniques and the
application o f new management technologies for participants in the region. Support for equipment (e.g.
microscopes, instruments,boats, etc.) and other upgrades (such as high speed intemet communication and
reference materials) will be provided to each COE, along with support for a technical assistant to the COE
Representative

Co-financing support for graduate scholarships will also occur for developing country students enrolled at
Universities (Le. affiliated with the COEs), to collaborate on coral reef research at the four Centers of
Excellence. This will support research and training in state-of-the-art techniques incoral reef research for
developing country scientists affiliated with networks o f marine laboratories and research institutions
within the regions.

B. Support for participationbyregionalscientists inTargeted ResearchActivities. (US $0.150 M)
A major role of the COEs is to facilitate access to the research training and management tools developed
under the Project, by other scientists or managers in the region, not formally affiliated with the COEO.
These opportunities for developing country scientists from the region, outside the COE, to participate
(These would include personnel involved in other GEF-financed Coral Reef Management activities (e.g.,
Indonesia     COREMAP, the MBRS Project in Mesoamerica, the Marine and Coastal Ecosystem
Management Project (MACEMP) inTanzania), andother donor financed initiatives.

C. Support for LocalResearch Priorities (US $1.0 Mfor 3 COEs),which can be informed by
Working Group expertise. Participation of other local scientists as researchers/collaborators in
specificexperiments.

Resources will also be set aside to support coral reef research that addresses local and regional priorities
 (e.g., Bolinao connectivity work). Thus, researchers at the COEs and at participating satellite sites (e.g.
other research facilities which are part of a regional network o f marine laboratories) will have the
opportunity to engage inrelated research that is tailored to the specific needs o f that region, while at the
 same time, benefiting from the expertise and mentoring by WG members and opportunities to reinforce
 institutional collaboration among scientists. Such collaboration will also access local knowledge and
 expertise and help ensure the near-term application o f findingsto local/regional management issues.



                                                       - 50 -

D.OngoingOutreachActivities (US $0.12 M)

Connecting with local stakeholders; developing communication and educational materials, e.g., for schools,
andother knowledge products that can inform regional coral reefmanagement activities. Inaddition to the
major workshops involving all working groups mentioned above, the Centers o f Excellence, incooperation
with the WGs, will hold additional meetings and small workshops to familiarize local participants and
stakeholders with the proposed work. This will also involve training o f local personnel to carry out
ecological surveys and certain experiments/measurements which require regular attention. Among those
expected to participate would be technical staff and graduate students from local supporting institutions.
For example, inyears 1& 2 the DiseaseWorking Group will be traininglocal Philippine personnel to carry
out surveys for disease andto take samples for isolationand identification o f pathogens.

Project Component 3 US$4.00 million
                       -
111.LinkingScientificKnowledgeto Management(GEF=US$1.4 M),DGF=US$1.3 M)Other
Co-finance=US$1.3 M

A. SynthesisPanel($1.6M)

A guiding Synthesis Panel helps gives direction to the Targeted Research program and interprets and
disseminates its findings. This experts Panel consists o f the heads o f each o f the six thematic working
groups, representatives from each of the Centers of Excellence, the Executive Officer from the Project
ExecutingAgency, andseveral outside experts representingcoral reef scientists, economists, andmanagers.

In order to maximize the impacts of the project on managers, scientists, environmental NGOs and
government agencies incoral reef countries, the results o f the program will be disseminated ina variety o f
formats and using a range o f media. Peer reviewed papers will represent the hghest level o f scientific
output and will ensure a high level o f quality control on the results and conclusions. Non-technical
summaries o f the major findings will also be createdby a contract science writer with experience working
indeveloping countries. These will be further distilled into short briefs outlining the major results, setting
out the policy implications, andlistingpossible managementactions andpolicy options for consideration by
relevant government agencies. The World Bank, as implementing agency, will use these policy briefs to
inform its Country Dialogue with client countries and the preparation o f country assistance and other
strategies to guide its lending andnon-lending operations. Such information will be used to promote reform
inthose economic sectorsas well as macroeconomic policieswhich are responsible for local stress oncoral
reefs.

During the first year the Synthesis Panel will finalize policies on intellectual property and information
access that will provide maximum flow o f data and information while giving reasonable protection to
researcherswho needto publishtheir work before it enters the public domain.

The activities o f the Synthesis Panel includethe following:
(1) PeriodicMeetings to Review, synthesize andinterpret researchresults andprovide direction re: scope
and budget for proposed follow on investigations. This will be part o f an annual review process that
evaluates research findings and approves proposals for continuing research. An Executive Committee will
approve funding allocations for renewal o f research subgrantson an annual basis.

(2) Occasional Symposia to bring interdisciplinary perspectives to bear on research findings and to
discuss implications for policy (to be held periodically in Washington for benefit o f Bank staff and other
public policy makers, e.g. U.S. Coral Reef Task Force, GEF STAP, National Academy o f Sciences,


                                                      -51-

Bilateral andMultilateral officials, NGO community.)

(3) Publications and Communications in the form of peer reviewedjoumal articles, Policy Briefs, and
Occasional Technical Papers (These will be part o f a TR series4utput o f the project), andperiodic press
releases. As part o f the latter, one or two international workshops for journalists will be supported (with
Australian and DGF funds) Work with Journalism and Public Policy Department o f the University o f
Queensland to develop this. (Science writer hired to work with Synthesis Panel to draft briefs andjournal
articles, and to work with Working Groups and COEs to distill findings re: new tools or insights to be
publishedina variety o fmedia (NGO newsletters, magazines,popular press, etc.)

(4) Special Studies (including DGFEvaluation at end of Year 3)
(5) Short Term Consultancies to support the work of the SynthesisPanel
(a) Washington-based Coordinator to serve as Executive Secretariat
(b) Honoraria for extemal SynthesisPanelmembers
(c) Independent Peer Reviewers (upto 4 reviewerdyr)

B.Modeling andDecision Support Working Group ($1.5M)
Roger Bradbury (Chair), Australian NationalUniversity, Canberra, Australia
Members: John McManus, (USA) Porfirio Aliiio (Philippines); Emesto Arias (Mexico,Team Leader for
MBRS); Antonio Badan (Mexico); Herminia Carnigal (Philippines); Robert Cowen (USA); Laura David
(Philippines, Team Leader for Philippines), Bohdan Dumota (Australia); Felimon C. Gavanilo, Jr.
(PhilippinesLJSA); Craig Johnson (Tasmania); Richard Pollnac (USA); Ramon Sampang (Philippines);
Rob Seymour (U.K), Rodrigo Garza (Mexico);                 Eloy Sosa (Mexico);     Liana Talaue-Mcmanus
(USARhilippines); Cesar Villanoy (Philippines); Scott Woolridge (Australia).

The Modeling andDecision Support Working Group (MDSWG) is focused on the development o f a set o f
novel, state-of-the-art tools to improve coral reef management and education. It integrates the work o f the
other five working groups, and combines this with a broad range o f social, economic, ecological and
physical information in a land-to-sea, watershed-based framework. The research is centered on the
development o f Dynamic Decision Support Systems (DDSS), which will augment Geographic Information
Systems with best-practice guides, expert systems, and scenario-testing models. The set o f spatially-explicit
models will serve as layers in the GIS designed to provide analyses o f the potential impacts of various
management interventions on the coral reef and associated local economic and social systems. The layers
will be interlinked in flexible ways, to provide for interdisciplinary analyses of potential cause and effect
relationships. The models will not be aimed at simple deterministic prediction, but rather at identifying
ranges o fpotential outcomes o fmanagementactions classified as high,medium andlow probability.

The Modeling and Decision Support Working Group has been designed to focus on the development o f
advanced, highly innovative decision support tools for management, which will include scenario-testing,
agent-based interdisciplinary modeling capabilities integrated with Geographic Information Systems (GIs).
Somemajor project design goals include:

 1. Long-term field efforts to parameterize the models based on studies of the targeted research working
groups andassociatedhumansocieties (inat least two o f the COEs) can be carried out cost-effectively.
2. The decision support systems are basedon needsthat are o fhighpriority indeveloping nations.
 3. There is a strong local capacity to maintain andimprove the systems after initial development.
4. Current expertise inAustralia andthe US on agent-basedmodeling, supplementedby partners inEurope,
i s built upon and combined with the considerable body o f knowledge o f reef ecology and hydrodynamics
 accumulated by scientists inMexico and the Philippines.


                                                      - 52 -

C. Meetingsfor Decision-makersat COEs ($0.9M)

Participationo f local NGO's and coral reef managersinplanningand awarenessworkshops to disseminate
results and to discuss their management and policy implications. Based on preliminary discussions during
the Block B phase, and further discussions during the early part o f year 1 a number o f active NGOs and
management agencies will be invitedto participate inworkshops at those active stations which will present
the objectives and management relevance o f the proposed research and seek input on site locations,
participation in some o f the survey work, and plans for interpreting and disseminating the results o f the
research interms relevant to managers and local NGO staff. This will be followed in year 4 with a major
symposium, coinciding with the 11th International Coral Reef Symposium to discuss the results and
consider their incorporation into managementplans andpolicy recommendations globally for coral reefs. In
the interveningyears, smaller meetings will be heldbetween selectedworking groups andmanagers/NGO
staff.

ProjectComponent4 US$2.90 million
                       -
ComponentIV. ProjectAdministration(GEF =US$0.4 M;Co-financing=US$2.5 M)
A.     PEACoordinationandOversight(FinancialManagementandReporting)

B.     Liaisingwith other partners
        0    Networkingwith UNESCOLOCto linkTR activities to IOC Programs for science-based
             management of Ocean resources. As part of its in-kind contribution to the Project
             partnership, UNESCOAntergovemmental Oceanographic Administration (IOC) will second
             one of its technical staff from Headquarters to serve as a full time Data, Outreach and
             Capacity BuildingOfficer based inBrisbane at the PEA. His primary role will be to liaise with
             the COEs, to link the targeted research to IOC programs to build capacity for better
             management o f ocean resources, and to facilitate a knowledge network among COEs with
             support from the PEA.
        0    ProgramSustainability& Fundraising

C.     CommunicationandOutreach
       In collaborationwith the Synthesis Panel and Centers of Excellence. In order to maximize the
       impacts o f the project on managers, scientists, environmental NGOs and government agencies in
       coral reef countries, the results o f the program will be output in a variety o f formats and using a
       range o f media. Peer reviewed papers will represent the highest level o f scientific output and will
       ensure a highlevel o f quality control on the results and conclusions. Non-technical summaries o f the
       major findings will also be created by a contract science writer with experience working in
       developing countries. These will be further distilled into short briefs outlining the major results,
       setting out the policy implications, and listing possible management actions and policy options for
       consideration by relevant government agencies. The World Bank, as implementing agency, will use
       these policy briefs to inform its Country Dialogue with client countries and the preparation of
       country assistance and other strategies to guide its lending and non-lending operations. Such
       information will be used to promote reform in those economic sectors as well as macroeconomic
       policies which are responsible for local stress on coral reefs. IOC will, similarly, use policy briefs
       and recommendations to inform its programs with member states to improve ocean governance and
       sustainable use o f coral reefecosystems.

       The Project Executing Agency staff will maintain communication with key contacts in each
       participating country during the course o f the research. Formal and informal dialogues between


                                                      - 53 -

   stakeholders and working group members will take place on an ongoing basis. Inassociation with
   each working group, the PEA will produce an annual non-technical report on the results and
   managementrelevance o f the group's progress and achievements.

D. InformationManagement(PEA)
   The PEA will also be responsible for Data Management andfor disseminating andarchivingresearch
   results in formats and channels acceptable to the institutions involved and for the benefit of target
   audiences. To the extent possible, data and information arising from the project will be enteredinto a
   central database together with a meta-databaseof all raw data holdings. (It is recognized that insome
   cases data andresults may be more appropriately linkedto rather than stored at PEA.) This will form
   the core o f a specialized online information system. In addition a comprehensive bibliography o f
   papers relating to all aspects o f the researchprogram will be compiled and made available inprint
   and electronic form to a all members and interested stakeholders. A selection of these will be made
   available as online documents for downloading and sharing among members. Information will be
   cross referenced and searchable to the extent possible using keywords. Photographs and remote
   sensing images obtained as part o f the project will be stored inthe database and made available for
   download using similar query and search interfaces. The Project Implementation Manual will
   document procedures for data ownership, managementanddissemination.




                                                  -54-

                                          Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
    WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Research and Capacity Building for Management

                                                                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                         US !$million
I. KnowledgeandTechnologyGaps
 Filling                                                                                                               11.20                   11.20
11. Promoting Scientific LearningandCapacity Building                                            0.00                   4.20                    4.20
LinkingScientific Knowledgeto Management                                                         0.00                   4.00                    4.00
Project Administration                                                                           0.00                   2.90                    2.90
Total Baseline Cost                                                                              0.00                  22.30                   22.30
 PhysicalContingencies                                                                           0.00                    0.00                   0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                                             0.00                    0.00                   0.00
                                        Total Project Costs1                                     0.00                  22.30                   22.30
                                Total Financing Required                                         0.00                  22.30                   22.30

   1
    Identifiable taxes anddutiesare 0 (US$m)andthe total projectcost, net of taxes, is 22.3 (US$m). Therefore, the project costsharingratio is 62.78% oftotal
   projectcostnet oftaxes.




                                                                   - 55 -

                                 Annex 4: Cost Analysis
  WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Research and Capacity Buildingfor Management


See Annex 11 IncrementalCost Analysis
            -




                                          - 56 -

                              Annex 5: FinancialSummary
        WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Researchand Capacity Buildingfor Management


In US$    Source of Component1 Component2 Component 3.               Component4. TOTAL
Millions  Finance    Knowledge &    Promoting      Linking Scientific Project
                     Tech. Gaps     Scientific     Knowledge to      Administration
                                    Learning &     Management
                                    Capacity
                                    Building
Year 1    GEF               2              0             0.15              0.1        2.25
          Bank              0             0.6             0.4                0           1
          Other             0             0.2             0.2              0.5         0.7
Year 2    GEF              2.2             0              0.1             0.075        2.4




                                                                      I             I      I




                I .




                                            - 57 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
     WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Researchand Capacity Buildingfor Management

Procurement
TechnicalAnnex: ProcurementArrangements

ProjectComponents

The Targeted Research Project is part o f a longer term effort to support the establishment o f an applied
research framework and build capacity for science-based management o f coral reefs in areas with
significant coral reef resources and Bank/GEF investments. The project will provide grants to research
institutions designed to: (i)
                            define knowledge and technology gaps on the importance o f coral reefs through
key themes and researchquestions which will be investigated by interdisciplinary teams o f developing and
developed country scientists; (ii) scientific learning and capacity building;and (iii) scientific
                                  promote                                                     link
knowledge to managementpolicy.

 Procurement

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordancewith the World Bank :Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in
the LegalAgreement.

A procurement capacity assessmentwas carried out for the University of Queensland whch inthis case is
the project executing agency. The University has long established procedures for its own procurement
which mirror the Bank's shopping procedures for goods valued at $100,000 or less and for the hiring o f
individual consultants. Given that the U Q procurement procedures are acceptable to the Bank and that the
majority o f the project consists o f grants to research institutions who will handle the very small
procurements inaccordance with their establishedcommercial procedures, the procurement risk is assessed
as low.

Procurement under the grants will be done by the institutions themselves following standard commercial
practices which are acceptable to the Bank. The grants will be used mainly to fund approved research
activities, provide scholarships, organize seminars to disseminate research results, procure small amounts
o f laboratory equipment andsupplies and find travel costs o f scientists andresearchers to participate inthe
working groups involvedinthe research. As recipients o f the grants, the researchinstitutions are expected
to follow standard commercial practices and to seek the best evaluated prices as it is in their own best
interest andwill maximize the utilization o f scarce resources.

The University o f Queensland, acting as Project Executing Agency (PEA) will be responsible for the
management and administration o f the project. Funds will be used by the PEA for the hiringo f individual
 consultants, organize seminars and meetings, provide for the travel o f participants, communications costs
 and arrange for the publication and dissemination of the researchmaterial. Individual consultants will be
 selectedby comparing CVs of qualifiedcandidates. Other incidental costs will be procured on the basis o f
 statements o f expenditures following UQ's ownprocedures.

 Because o f the above, the preparation o f a normal procurement plan is not meaningful. Grants will be
 provided on an annual tranche by the PEA which will prepare an annual program based on


                                                     - 58 -

 recommendations of a synthesis panel which will receive grant proposals.
 Procurementmethods(TableA)

 Apart from the grants to the Working Groups and the Centers of Excellence, however, some goods and services wi'
 Synthesis Panel andfor Project administration.
                          Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                               (US$ million equivalent)



                                                                                                                           t
                                               0.00                   0.00      I    0.00        I     0.00          0.00
                                             (0.00)                  (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                                       0.00                   0.00           0.00              0.00          0.00
                                             (0.00)                  (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                                    0.00                   0.00           0.30              0.60          0.90
Consultant Services                           (0.00)                 (0.00)         (0.30)            (0.00)        (0.30)
4. Miscellaneous ((including,                  0.00                   0.00           15.60             5.80         21.40
subgrants, services,
incrementaloperating costs,
and travel relatedto meetings
and project administration)
I                                             (0.001                 (0.00)         (15.60)           (0.00)        (15.60)
                                               0.00                                  15.90                           22.30
    Total                                     (0.00)                 (0.00)         (15.90)           (0.00)        (15.90)

  I'Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.

  2/"Other" category includes services o f contracted staff o f the project management office, goods purchased through
    national shopping under subgrants, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
    to (i)
         managing the project, and (ii)administration o f sub-grants.




                                                           - 59 -

                     Table AI: Consultant SelectionArrangements (optional)
                                      (US$ million equivalent)




 Includingcontingencies

         Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
               QBS = Quality-basedSelection
               SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
               LCS = Least-Cost Selection
               CQ = Selection Basedon Consultants' Qualifications
               Other = Selectionof individual consultants (per Section V of ConsultantsGuidelines),
               Commercial Practices, etc.
               N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
               Figuresin parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
Noprior review for procurement of consultants or other procurement categorieswill be required under the
project.




                                                 - 60 -

             Annex 6(B):FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
       WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Research and Capacity Buildingfor Management

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
SummarvProiectDescription
The Coral ReefTargetedResearchProject (The TR Project) will fund global researchactivities for science
based coral reef management and capacity building. The project implementation is undertaken by six
technical working groups organized around key research themes and four centers o f excellence, three of
which are based inbeneficiary developing countries. A Synthesis Panel composed o f the chairpersons o f
the six working groups plus additional outside experts and representatives o f the regional centers o f
excellence will provide overall guidance and directionto project implementation.
A major study was carried out to identify the most appropriate institutional arrangementsandflow of funds
for the project. The study recommended establishment o f a global implementing agency with overall
responsibility for project execution andfinancial accountability to the Bank. The Universityo f Queensland
(UQ), a leader inthe field of coral reef research andmanagement, was selectedas the host organization for
the Project Executing Agency (PEA). The scientific Working Groups (WG) and Centers o f Excellence
(COE) established under the overall direction o f the Global Synthesis Panel will cany out the field level
implementation o f the project. The PEA will operate independently under the guidance o f the Synthesis
Panel who will meet annually to review Project progress, performance o f the PEA andthe host organization
and approve the annual budget. U Q shall be responsible for oversight andprovidingmanagement support
to the Project ExecutingAgency. The PEA shall be the principal recipient o f GEF funds, other donor funds
and funds to be contributed by the participating govemments. The PEA shall be fully accountable for all
project funds and shall ensure timely disbursement o f funds to participating project implementing
institutions. PEA shall be responsible for overall project management and coordination including
procurement, financial management andproject administration.

ImplementingEntitv-FinancialManapementAssessment
 A financial management assessment of the host organization was carried out in accordance with the
Guidelines for Assessment o f Financial Management Arrangements o f Bank financed Projects. The results
o f the assessmentare summarized below.
The University o f Queensland was established in 1909 and i s a leader among the Australian universities
andrecognized intemationally. The UQ is govemed by the University of QueenslandAct o f 1998. The Act
provides for the establishment o f the governing body (the Senate) and defines its financial and corporate
powers andresponsibilities.

The Finance Administration and Audit Act o f the Queensland state govemment prescribes the accounting
and audit requirements o f UQ. U Q financial policies, systems andprocedures are described ina Financial
Management Practice Manual that is prepared in accordance with the requirements o f the Act. The
Financial Management Practice Manual is based on a Financial Management Standard that was issued in
July 1997 pursuant to Section 46L o f the Financial Administration and Audit Act. This standard specifies
the financial administrative requirements for statutory authorities (which includes the University) and also
outlines the basic accountability and intemal control procedures the QueenslandGovemment requires to be
adopted. The prescribed accounting standards are consistent with generally accepted accounting principles
and Australian Accounting Standards.
The U Q finance function i s organized under a Chief Financial Officer with a decentralized finance staff
providingfinancial services to the various faculties and schools o f the UQ. U Q operates on the principle o f
delegated authority with heads o f faculties and schools responsible for operation, control and financial



                                                    -61 -

accountability o f their respective sections. A Business Manager (Head o f Financial Services) supports the
heads o f faculties and schools and is responsible for all decentralized financial management functions. The
ChiefFinancial Officer provides centralized financial services andoversight.
The PEA for the project will be located within the Centre for Marine Studies (CMS) of UQ. The CMS is
an independent financial accountability unit within the Faculty of Biological and Chemical Sciences. PEA
will be headed by an Executive Officer and will be supported by financial and technical staff. UQ has
already appointed a project accountant who will be responsible for the project financial management. The
project accountant will follow the U Q accounting polices and practices in maintaining project accounts,
financial reporting and audit. The CMS financial staffwill provide support, as required, inthe discharge o f
the PEA finance services. The CMS financial staff and the central finance staff will provide guidance and
oversight o f the project accountant.

The proposed financial structure and the accounting and financial polices and practices are
acceptable to the Bank

 RiskAssessment
Overall financial management risks are considered minimal given strong financial management and control
environment inthe host organization. The host organization will take responsibility for establishment o f the
financial managementunit o f the PEA and ensure that competent staff is appointed to the unit.
Inherent Risks are considered minimal due good financial management environment, qualified staff,
training and continuous oversight by well organized finance department o f the host organization.
Control risks are also considered minimal due establishment of sound financial management policies and
procedures, clear lines o f authority and reporting andavailability o fwell-qualified staff.

2. Audit Arrangements
IndependentAudit
The Auditor-General (Queensland Audit Office) of the Queensland Government, in accordance with the
Finance Administration and Audit Act, currently audits U Q financial statements. PEA shall have the
project financial statements audited by an independent external auditor acceptable to the Bank The
Queensland Audit Office is an acceptable independent auditor. The audit report together with the annual
financial statements shall be submitted to the Bankwithin 6 months aRer the close o f the financial year. U Q
has an intemal audit function and it is expected that the internal auditors will include the PEA, as a unit
within CMS, in their annual internal audit program. In addition, consideration could be given for field
intemal audits if sigmficant risks are revealed in administration o f research grants during project
 implementation.

3. DisbursementArrangements
 FundsFlow andDisbursementArranpements
Fund Flowfrom Bank to PEA. All project funds, GEF, donors and participating governments, shall be
 deposited with the PEA. GEF funds shall be deposited inaccordancewith the disbursement arrangements
 described below. The deposit o f funds from parallel co-financiers shall be in accordance with separate
 bi-lateral agreements with each o f the parallel co-financiers. PEA shall establish a separate bank account
 (Project Special Account) denominated in U S dollars for deposit o f GEF and World Bank funds. Project
 Special Bank Account (SA) shall be established with a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The
 initial deposit inthe amount not exceeding US$ 1million will be deposited to the SA on receipt o f the first
 withdrawal application. The replenishment o f the Special Account shall be based on Statement o f
 Expenditures(SOE) to be submitted monthly or whenever the SA is drawn below halfof its initial deposit.




                                                      - 62 -

All GEF portions of project eligible expenditures shall be paid out of the Special Account in accordance
with agreed accounting policies and procedures. PEA shall maintain separate accounts and supporting
documents to report on the operation of the Special Account.
Fund Flow from PEA toproject executingagencies. A major portion o f project funds will be disbursed
as grants (herein after called sub-grants) to project participating institutes and Centers o f Excellence to
fund approved research and capacity building activities. Disbursement o f funds from the SA to
sub-grantees would be based upon signed sub-grant agreements following UQpolicies and procedures for
administration o f research grants.
U Q has considerable experience in managing research grants and has a separate organizational unit that
provides administrative and legal support to the administration and management of grants. Sub-grant
applications will be in a standard form and will be initially reviewed and approved by the scientific
Working Groups and submitted to the PEA for funding. The PEA with the support o f appropriate U Q units
will review applications for completeness and enter into a sub-grant agreement with the recipients. The
sub-grant agreement shall specify, inter alia, purpose of the grant, objects of expenditure, disbursement
schedule and reporting and monitoring arrangements. U Q accounting policies for management o f research
grants are given inthe Financial Management Practices Manual. Based on theses policies, PEA will prepa
re guidance describing the preparation, administration andmanagement of Project sub-grantsto be included
inthe Project ImplementationManual.
All other project related expenditures would be disbursed following U Q financial practices by the PEA.
PEA shall maintain all documentation supporting disbursementfrom the Special Account.

To accommodate any eligible expenditures leading up to Project start up between July land Project
Effectiveness, retroactive financing o f up to US$1Million (or 10% o f the GEF Grant funds), shall be
allowed. Such eligible expenditures include preparation and publication o f manuals by the Working
Groups, field work, meetings and travel that have been approved by the Synthesis Panel for the operation
o f the Working Groups.

Financial Manapement Svstem
Organization and stafing.       PEA shall establish a project accounting unit staffed with qualified and
experienced personnel. A Project Accountant (PA) with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Bank has already been appointed as head o f the unit. The Project Accountant shall be under the direct
supervision o f CMS Head o f Financial Services and report functionally to the Head of the PEA and shall
be supported by an adequate number of assistant and support staff. The number of staff and their
responsibilities shall be decided based on the volume o f work with due regard to segregation o f duties and
internal control processes.

Internal Control. U Q has well defined administrative, accounting and operational procedures for various
level o f authority. Internal control processes o f U Q are assessed as satisfactory and the PEA finance unit
will operate in this environment. A sound organization and staffing, clear accounting and control
procedures, independent oversight o f the finance unitby the finance managers o f U Q andtraining o f project
staff by the Bank should contribute to a good internal control environment.

Accounting Policies and Procedures. PEA shall follow accounting policies o f U Q in recording and
reporting project transactions. It is agreedthat separateproject accounts shall be maintained within the U Q
accounting system. PEA shall design a chart o f accounts that would facilitate reporting o f project
expenditures in the format agreed for Financial Monitoring Reports. The chart o f account shall facilitate
recording o f financial transactions for GEF and other donors, the project components and geographic
locations. A Sub-grant Administration manual (to be included inthe Project ImplementationManual)shall
include policies andprocedures for accounting andreporting at the level o f field entities such as Technical


                                                      - 63 -

Working Groups and Centers of Excellence for researchgrants received from the Project.

Planning and budgeting. UQcurrently has a sound budgetingprocessandit is agreedthat similar budget
policy be established for project activities. PEA shall require that all field project entities prepare annual
work plans and budgets within the overall PAD expenditure estimates. The work plans and budgets,
covering GEF and other donor funded activities, shall include both financial and physical targets. The
annual budget shall also include a procurement plan. The annual plan, following review by the PEA, shall
be submittedto the Synthesis Panel for approval. The approvedbudget shall be submitted for Bank review
no less than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year. Following Bank's no objection, the budget
shall be the basis for project financial management.

Reporting and Monitoring.        PEA shall prepare half-yearly and annual financial statements to report on
project activities to the Bank and other stakeholders. The semester financial statements shall be based on
agreed Financial Monitoring Reports and shall include (i) financial statements compared with
                                                               project
budgets and (ii)  physical progress report compared with targets. The quarterly FMRs shall be agreed at
negotiations. PEA shall also prepare annual project financial statements in accordance with agreed
accounting principles andpolicies.



  Allocationof grant proceeds(Table C)

                                   Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

           ExpenditureCategory                IAmount   in US$million  I         Financing Percentage
IIConsultant
  Sub-mants                                            10.30                                 93.7
             Services                         II        0.30           II                    2.7               II
  IncrementalOperating Costs                            0.40                                 3.6
  Goods                                                 0.00                                  0

  Total Project Costs with Bank                         11.00
  Financing
  Total                                                 11.00


  Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): nla



  Special account: nla




                                                    - 64 -

                            Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
    WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Researchand Capacity Building for Management

 Project Schedule                                         Planned                      Actual
ITime taken to preparethe project(months)              24                             60
IFirstBank mission(identification)           1I        11/23/1998           II        11/23/1998   II
 Appraisal mission departure                           04/01/2004                     0411312004
 Negotiations                                          0710112004                     07/19/2004
/PlannedDate of Effectiveness                I         12/01/2004           I                      I

Prepared by:



Preparation assistance:


Bank staff who worked on the projeci included:
         Name                                          Speciality
 Marea E. Hatziolos                    Task Team Leader / Sr. Environmental Specialist
 Anthony J. Hooten                     Consultant / Coral Reef Ecologist
 Hanneke van Tilburg                   Senior Counsel / Legal
 Maurice L e Blanc                     Consultant / Procurement Specialist
 Wijaya Wickrema                       Consultant / Financial Management Specialist
 Tundy Agardy                          Consultant / MarineResource andM P A Specialist
 Agustinus SamsonKaber                 Program Assistant / Bank andGEF Project Processing
 RobinBroadfield                       GEFRegional Coordinator




                                               -65-

                               Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
    WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Researchand Capacity Buildingfor Management


A. Project Implementation Plan
Project ImplementationManual (inDraft>

B. Bank Staff Assessments



C. Other
ListofProject-relatedPublicationsof authorsinthe Working Groupsor CentersofExcellence(in
print,in press or inpreparation)
BleachingWorkingGroup
         T.P. Hughes,A.H. Baird,D.R. Bellwood,M.Card, S.R. Connolly, C. Folke,R.Grosberg, 0.
         Hoegh-Guldberg,J.B.C. Jackson, J. Keypas,J.M. Lough,P. Marshall,M.Nystrom, S.R.
         Palumbi,J.M. Pandolfi, B. Rosen, andJ. Roughgarden.2003. Climate Change, Hman
         Impacts, andthe Resilience of Coral Reefs. ScienceVol. 301 (August 15):929-933.
        Nature, Vol45,28 Feb 2002: "Reef underthreat from 'bleaching' outbreak"
         R.P. Cooney, 0.Pantos,M.D.Le-Tissier andJ.C. Bythell:'Comparison ofthe molecular
         microbiology o fblack banddisease incorals betweenthe Great BarrierReef and Caribbean'
         (Submitted).
         LaJeunesse, Todd C., William K.W. Loh, Robertvan Woesik, OveHoegh-Guldberg,
         GregoryW. Schmidt, andWilliamK.Fitt: Low symbiont diversityinsouthern Great Barrier
         Reef corals relative to those o f the Caribbean (Limnology & Oceanography, Vol. 48(5),
         September 2003, inpress)
         OveHoegh-Guldberg,RossJ. Jones, Selina Ward & WilliamK.Loh: Is coralbleachingreally
         adaptive? Nature 415,601 - 602, Feb 2002
         B.E. Brown,R.P Dunne,M.S. Goodson,A.E. Douglas:Experience shapesthe susceptibility of
         a reef coral to bleaching. Coral Reefs (inpress).
         Gian-Reto Walther, EricPost,Peter Convey, Annette Menzel, CamilleParmesan,Trevor J.
         C. Beebee,Jean-Marc Fromentin,OveHoegh-Guldberg,FranzBairlein:Ecologicalresponses
         to recent climate change. Nature416, 389 - 395, Mar 2002.

RemoteSensingWorking Group

         Tiit Kutser, Arnold G. Dekker, William Skirving:Modelingspectral discriminationof Great
         Bamer Reefbenthic communities by remote sensing instruments. Limnology & Oceanography,
         48,497-510, AUg 2003.
         P.J. Mumby andeight co-authors. A Review o fRemote Sensingfor Coral Reefs. Submitted
         Marine Pollution Bulletin
         Hedley JD, Mumby PJ, Joyce KE, Phinn SR (2003) Spectral unmixing o f coral reef benthos
         under ideal conditions. Coral Reefs (inpress)
         Hedley JD, Mumby PJ (2003) Spectral unmixing and the resolution of depth from remotely
         sensed data o f aquatic systems. Limnology & Oceanography 48: 480-488
         Mumby PJ, Edwards AJ (2002) Mapping marine environments with IKONOS imagery:


                                                      - 66 -

        enhanced spatial resolution does deliver greater thematic accuracy. Remote Sensing o f
        Environment 82: 248-257

Disease WorkingGroup

        Drew Harvell,CharlesE. Mitchell, Jessica R.Ward, Sonia Altizer, Andrew P. Dobson$
        RichardS. Ostfeld, MichaelD. Samuel: Climate Warming andDiseaseRisks for Terrestrial and
        MarineBiota, Science,296,2158-2162, June 2002.
        C. D.Harvellandseven co-authors.Inprep. New PerspectivesonInternationalImpacts of
        Coral Disease.
        Mullen, Harvell, Jordan,Ward, Alker, Smith,Petes.submitted. Hostrange andanti-fungal
        resistanceo f aspergillosis inthree seafan species o fthe Yucatan. Marine Biology.
        Ward, Lafferty,Harvell. inprep. Proxies Reveal IncreasingImpacts of Diseaseinthe Ocean.
        Ward, Harvell, Smith, Bruno,Rypien,Jordan. inprep. A Test o fthe Diseaseas a Driver of
        coral Biodiversity Hypothesis.
        Harvell,Pates andPeters.inprep. Mechanisms of Coral Resistanceto Disease. (Chapter
        contributions for a book editedby Eugene Rosenberg, inprep. Global Coral Health and Disease.)
        Weil andSmith. inprep.Localandgeographic variability indisease prevalence at the species
        level inthe Wider Caribbean.
        Willis, Smith, RitchieandPaige. Prevalence of Coral DiseaseinAustralia.
        RaymunodoandKacsmarsky. PrevalenceofnewlydescribedPhilippine Coral Diseases.

RestorationandRemediationWorking Group

        L.M.Chouandtenco-authors. Apreliminaryguideto coralreefrestoration andremediation
        options for managers. Planned for December, 2003.

*Includingelectronicfiles




                                                    - 67 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
            WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Researchand Capacity Building for Management
                                                               19-Jul-2004
                                                                                                                         Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                                  and actual
                                                                    OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
ProjectlD    FY  Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO73195     2001 Critical Ecosystem PartnershipFund                0.00      0.00                 25.00     0.00     20.90      69.04       0.00

                                                       Total:     0.00       0.00               25.00       0.00     20.90       69.04      0.00




                                                                  WORLD
                                                            STATEMENT OF JFC's
                                                        HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                               Ma 2004
                                                                     -
                                                           InMillionsUSDollars

                                                                               Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                                                                                      IFC
     FY Approval                Company                              Loan     Equity      Quasi       Partic    Loan     Equity       Quasi     Partic
     2002                       AIG GEMI1                             0.00     45.00       0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00
     2003                       AIM-ACCION                            0.00      3.00       0.00        0.00     0.00        0.64       0.00      0.00
     2004                       BTC Pipeline                       125.00       0.00       0.00      125.00     84.50       0.00       0.00     84.50
     2002                       CIPEF IV                              0.00     30.00        0.00       0.00     0.00        0.67       0.00      0.00
     2000/02/03                 IMI                                   0.00      4.58        0.00       0.00     0.00        4.58       0.00      0.00
     1994                       IndexFund                             0.00      9.02        0.00       0.00     0.00        9.02       0.00      0.00
     2003                       Novica                                0.00       1.50       0.00       0.00      0.00       1.25       0.00      0.00
     2004                       Olam                                  0.00      15.00       0.00       0.00      0.00     15.00        0.00      0.00
     2003                       ShoreCapIntl                          0.00       2.50       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.42       0.00      0.00
     1999                       Solar Dev. Cap.                       0.00       4.80       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
     1997                       TCW (GEM) Fund                        0.00       5.44       0.00       0.00      0.00       5.44        0.00     0.00
                                         Total Portfolio:          125.00     120.84         0.00     125.00    84.50       37.02        0.00    84.50



                                                                          ApprovalsPendingCommitment
     FY Approval               Company                                   Loan       Equity         Quasi       Partic
     2003                      AscentFund                                 0.00        0.00         10.00        0.00
     2002                      GWRF                                       0.00        0.00         10.00        0.00
     2003                      GlobalMEF                                  0.00        4.00          0.05        0.00
     2004                      Schwarz Group                           151.73         0.00          0.00        0.00
     2004                      TCW GEMVI1                                 0.00        0.00         30.00        0.00

                               Total PendingCommitment:                151.73         4.00         50.05        0.00




                                                                    - 68 -

                                                 Annex 10: Country at a Glance
       WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Researchand Capacity Buildingfor Management
                                          Mexico at a glance                                                                                       9/3/03


                                                                           L a t h    Uooer-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                     America       mlddle-
                                                             Mexlco     8 Carib.      Income
ZOO2
Population, mid-year (millions)                                100.9         527          331
GNt per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             5,920       3,260        5,040                    Life expectancy

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                               597 0       1,727        1,668
Averaae annual arowth, 1996-02
Population (%)                                                    1.4        1.5          1 2
Labor force 1%)                                                   2.4        2.2          1 6      GNI                                            Gross
                                                                                                   per                                          primary
Most recent estlmate (latest year avallable, 1996-02)                                              capita                                   nrollment

Urban population 1% of total population)                                                          I
Poverty (% of Dopulation below national Dovertv line)
                                                                   75         76           75     l -
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                   74         71           73                           1
infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                           25         27           19
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                          8            9                        Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source 1% of population)               68         66           90
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+J                                6          11           7
Gross primary enrollment I%of school-age population)              113        130          105                 Mexico
    Male                                                          114        131          106           -_.I_ UPDer-middla-incomewouD
    Female                                                        113        128          105

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                     1982       1992       2001         2002
GDP (US%billions)                                    173 7     3636        623 9        637 2       Economlc ratlos'

Gross domestic investment/GDP                        22 9        23 3       20 9         20 3
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                     15 3       15 2       27 4         27 2                          Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            27 9       16 3        16 6         16 3
Gross national savings/GDP                            21 5       16 6        17 9         16 0                           T
Current account balanceiGDP                           -3.4        -6 7       -2 9         -2 2
Interest paymentsiGDP                                  4.5         1 6        1 9          1 7      Domestic                              Investment
Total debt/GDP                                        49.6       30 9        25 4        24 2       savings
Total debt serviceiexports                            52.3       33 6        26 3         16 6
Present value of debt/GDP                                                                                                1
Present value of debtiexports

                                         1982-92  1992-02       2001        zoo2      2002 06
                                                                                           -                        Indebtedness
                                                                                                                                                         I
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          1.9       3.2        -0 3        0 9          3 6           -Mexico
GDP per capita                              -0.1       1.6        -1 8       -0 6          2 1           __Upper-middle-incomegroup
 Exports of goods and services               5.1      13.4        -3 6        1 4          5 6


                                                                                                                                                         I
 STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

 1% of GDP)                                          1982        1992       2001

 Agriculture                                           6.1         6.7        4.1                                                                        II
 Industry                                             33 A
                                                      .. _.       28 1       27 i
    Manufacturing                                     21 7        202        19 6         16 9       10
 Services                                             56 4        65 2       68 7         69 4         0
 Private consumption                                  61 6        71 8       69 6         70 0  , .IO        97      9p   99      00
 General government consumption                       10.5         9.9       11.6         11.6
 Imports of goods and services                        10.3        20.3       29.7         29.2                 -001             - O - G D P




 (average annual growth)
 Agriculture                                           0.7         1.7         3.3        -0.4      30
 Industry                                              2.5         3.7       -3.5          0.0      20
    Manufacturing                                      3.0         4.3       -3.7         -0.6
 Services                                              2.0         3.1         0.7          1.4     'O

 Private consumption                                   2.7         2.9         2.7          1.2        O

 General government consumption                        2.1         1.5        -1.2         -1.3    - t o
 Gross domestic investment                             2.5         4.7        -5.2          0.5              -Exports           - O ' l m p o r t s
 Imports of goods and services                        11.2        11.8        -1.5          1.6                                                          I
 Note: 2002 data are preliminary estimates.
 * The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing. ihe diamond will
     be incomplete.




                                                                        - 69 -

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1982    1992     2001    2002
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                             58.9    15.5       6.4     5.0
Implicit GOP deflator                       60.9    14.4       6.5     4.6
Government finance
(?Aof GDP, includes current granfsj
Current revenue                             27.4    23.7     21.8    22.6             87     88      88     00       01      02
Current budget balance                       -6.0     5.0      1.9     0.2 I
Overall surplus/deficit                     -14.1     1.4     -0.7    -1.2            -GDP       deflator   +CPI


TRADE
                                            1982    1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                               I Export and Import levels (USSmlll.)
Total exports (fob)                       24,055  46,196  158,443  160.813   ~200.000                                          II
 Oil                                      16,477   8.307   12,799   14,475
 Agriculture                                1,233  2,112    3,903   3,998
  Manufactures                              5,843 35,420  141,353  141,951
Total imports (cif)                       17,011  62,129  168.396  168,949
  Consumer Roods                            1.517  7,144   19,752  21,178
  Intermediate goods                      10,991  42.830  128.149  126.778
                                                                             I
  Capital aoods                             4,502 11.556   22,496   20,992
Export price index (1995=100J                 127      91      103     106            88   87     88    88   00      01

Import price index (1995=100)                  74      91      103     104                   EExports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     171     100      101     102

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                            I982    1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                Current account balance to GDP (%)               1
Exports of goods and services             28,169   55,387 171,103  173,374
Imports of aoods and services             22,841  73,617  184.614  185.419
Resource balance                            5.328 -18.230  -13,511 -12,045
Net income                                -12,261  -9,595  -13,835 -12,282
Net current transfers                       1,043   3,386    9,338  10,268
Current account balance                    -5,890 -24,438  -18,008 -14,058
Financing items (net)                       2,316  26.184   25.347  19,851
Changes in net reserves                     3,574  -1,745   -7,339  -5,193
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        914  18.975   44.814  50,607
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$j          5.64E-2     3.1      9.3      9.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            I982    1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                 :ompoaltlon of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       86,081 112,315 158.291  153,923
   IBRD                                     2,692  11,966   10.883  10,596
   IDA                                          0                                       G 18,000     A 10S88
                                                        0        0        0
Total debt service                         15.684  20,751   48,729  35,254                                            ,803
   IBRD                                       328   1.874    2.178   2,093
   IDA                                          0       0        0        0
Composition of net resource flows
   Official arants                             76      14
   Official creditors                       1,517     615     -669    -432
   Private creditors                        6,391    -531    3,198  -3,932
   Foreign direct investment                1,655   4,393   25,334  13,627
   Portfolio eauity                             0   4.783      151    -104                        F: 118,503
World Bank program
   Commitments                                540   1,313      860   1,322     \- IBRD                          E Bilateral
   Disbursements                              408   1,352      749   1,247     I. IDA    D Other multilateral
                                                                                           -                    F Private
                                                                                                                 .-
   Principal repayments                       133     981    1,314   1,356     ;-IMF                            G Short-term
                                                                                                                    ~

   Net flows                                  215     371     -565     -108
   Interest payments                          195     892      864     137
   Net transfers                               80    -522   -1,429     -845

 Development Economics                                                                                                    9/3/03




                                                          - 70 -

                                      Philippines at a glance                                                                              9/2/03

                                                                           East       Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                      Asia 8       middle-
                                                        PhilipDines     Pacific      Income       Developmmt diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                                 79.9      1,838        2.411
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$)                                                                               Life expectancy
                                                               1,020        950         1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US0 billions)                                81.5      1,740         3,352
Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                                          T
PoDulation(%)                                                     2.2        1.o           I.o
Labor force (%j                                                   2.3        1.2           1.2    GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                                  per                                   primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                             capita                               nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below national poverty line) l/            28
Urban population (% of total population)                           60         38           49
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                   70         69           69                           I
infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                           29         33           30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                         32         15            11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)               86         76           81
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                5         13            13
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)            113         106          111        -Philippinas
    Male                                                         114         105          111            -. Lower-middle-income group
    Female                                                        113        106          110

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                    1982        1992       2001          2002
GDP (US$ billions)                                   37.3        53.0       71.4          77.1
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                         27.9        21.3       17.6          16.6
Exports of goods and services/GDP                    20.3        29.1       48.5          48.9                        Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                           22.1        16.4       19.0          17.7
Gross national SavingslGDP                                       19.7       25.5          24.8
Current account balance/GDP                           -8.6        -1.6        1.9          5.4
Interest payments/GDP                                  2.5         2.5       4.0           6.4     Domestic                           Investment
Total debUGDP                                        65.4        62.3       80.9          77.7     savings

Total debt service/axDorts                           42.6        24.5       21.6          24.8
Present value of debUGDP                                                    77.4                                        I

Present value of debtkxports                                               132.7
                                                                                                                   lndabtedness
                                         1982-92 1992-02        2001       2002       2002 -06
(average annual growth)
GDP                                          1.6       3.7         3.2        4.6                      -Philippines
GDP per capita                              -0.8       1.4         1.o        2.4                 I    -       Lower-middle-income wouD
 Exports of goods and services               5 5       5.9        -5.2        3.3


 STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                     1982        1992       2001          2002     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
 (% of GDP)
 AQriCUltUre                                         23.3         21.8       15.1         14.9     20

 lndustrv                                            38.8         32.8       31.6         31.6     10
    Manufacturina                                    25.1         24.2       22.8         22.9      0
 Services                                            37.8         45.3       53.3         53.5     10
 Private consumption                                 68.8         73.9       68.2         69.5     20
 General government consumption                        9.1         9.7       12.8         12.8                -GDI              +GDP
 Imports of goods and services                        26.1        34.0       47.0         47.8

                                                  1982-92    1992-02        2001          2002
 (average annual growth)                                                                           Growth of exports and Imports (%)

 Agriculture                                           1.5         2.0        3.7           3.5
 Industry                                              0.1         3.5        2.3           4.1
    Manufacturing                                      1.3         3.5        2.9           3.3
 Servicas                                              3.1         4.6         3.7          5.4

 Private consumDtion 21                                2.8         3.9         1.9          7.1
 General aovernment consumption                        1.9         3.9         0.3          1.8
 Gross domestic investment                             0.4         2.4         1.3         -0.6
 Imports of goods and services                         7.0         5.1        -0.8          4.9

 Note: 2002 data are preliminary estimates.
 * The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing. the diamond will
     be incomplete.
  1/ Government povertv estimate is 34 percent for CY 2000.    2/ Includes statistical discrepancv




                                                                      -71    -

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1982                  1992     2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                                            Inflation (%)
( X change)                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                         I'   T
Consumer prices                                ..                  8.9      6.1     3.1
Implicit GDP deflator                                                                      10
                                             8.7                   7.9      6.6      4.5
Government finance                                                                         5

(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                                                      I
Current revenue                                                  18.0      15.5    14.3              87    88      88      00     01     02
Current budaet balance                                             2.1     -2.3    -5.3
Overall surplus/deficit                        ......             -1.2                                         deflator   +CPI
                                                                           -4.0    -5.3            -GDP


TRADE                                                                                                                                      I
                                           1982                  1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                             Export and Import IeveIa (US$ mlll.)
Total exports (fob)                                             9.824    31,243  34.383    40.000I
  Electronics/Telecom                                           2.753    16,699  18.583
  Garments                                                      2,140     2,403   2.391
  Manufactures                                                  7.293    28.340  31.181
Total imports (cif)                                             14.519   31.986  33,975
  Food                                                            599     1.348   1.384
  Fuel and enerw                                                2,050     3,372   3.273
  Capital goods                                ................ 4,023    11,438  13,532          ..    .     .     .      .    .     .
Export price index (1995=1001                                                                      88    87    88     88    00    01

Import price index /1995=1001                                                                            0 Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=.100)

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                           1982                  1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                              Current account balance to GDP (Oh)
Exports of goods and services             6.825                 14.566   34,391  37,439
Imports of goods and services              9.467                16.834   37.184  38.295     '' T
Resource balance                          -2.642                -2,268   -2,793    -856
Net income                                -1,044                   593    3,669   4,550
Net current transfers                        486                   817      447      503
Current account balance                   -3,200                  -858    1,323   4,197
Financina items (net)                      2.471                 2.350   -1,131   -4.857
Chanaes in net reserves                      729                -1,492     -192      660
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..                4,338   15,658  16,180
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             8.5                  25.5      51.O    51.6

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                           1982                  1992      2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                              Composltlonof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      24,413                33,005   57.758  59,919
   IBRD                                    1,519                 4.179    3,250    3,324                       A: 3.324

    IDA                                       49                   166      204      208                G 5.558         B 208

Total debt service                         3,513                 4.302    9,004   11,271
   IBRD                                      174                   640      491      479
    IDA                                         0                    2         6       7
Composition of net resource flows
   Official grants                            70                   208       112      74
   Official creditors                        469                 1.457      -258     -39
    Private creditors                      1.138                -1,330    2.883    1,057
    Foreign direct investment                 16                   228    1,142    1,026
    Portfolio eauitv                            0                  360     1,050   1,912
 World Bank proaram
    Commitments                              541                   630        90     200    A . IBRD                          E Bilateral
    Disbursements                            259                   578       120     177    B IDA       D Other multilateral
                                                                                                         -                    F Private
                                                                                                                               --
    Principal repavments                      61                   325       312     327    C IMF
                                                                                               --                             G Short-term
                                                                                                                                -
    Net flows                                197                   254      -192    -150
    Interest Davments                        113                   317       185     158
    Net transfers                             84                    -63     -377    -308

 Development Economics                                                                                                                9/2/03




                                                                       - 72 -

                                       Tanzania at a dance                                                                             8/20/03

                                                                         Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                    Saharan         LOW-
                                                          Tanzanla      Africa      income       Development diamond'
2002
Population. mid-year (millions1                                35.2       688         2.495
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                                                             Life expectancy
                                                                280       450           430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                 9.9        306        1,072
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population f%J                                                  2.4         2.4         1.9
Labor force (%J                                                 2.5         2.5         2.3      GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                                 per                                  primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-02)                                            capita                             nrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationalpoverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                         34         33           30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                 43         46           59
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                         107        105           81
Child malnutrition(% of children under 5)                        29
Access to an improved water source (% of population)             68         58           76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                             23         37           37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)            63         86           95
    Male                                                         63         92          103                      Low-income group
    Female                                                       63         80           87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                    I982      1992       2001         2002        Economlc ratios.
GDP (US$ billionsl                                               4.6        9.3         9.4
Gross domestic InvestmentIGDP                                  27.2       17.0         17.4
Exports of goods and services1GDP                               12.4      15.3          16.7                        Trade
Gross domestic savingsIGDP                                       0.3        8.4         10.5
Gross national savingsIGDP                                       6.2        7.3         10.1
Current account balanceIGDP                                   -15.5        -7.9
Interest pavments/GDP                                            1.2        0.4         0.6
Total debt1GDP                                                145.1       71.5         77.2
Total debt servicelexports                           23.6       42.2      10.3          7.8
Present value of debtIGDP                                                 14.4
Present value of debtlexports                                             89.9
                                                                                                                  Indebtedness
                                        1982-92  1992-02      2001       2002       2002-06
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                   4.0        6.1        6.3                            -Tanzania
GDP per capita                                        1.3        3.8        4.1                            -Low-incomeorouo
Exports of goods and services                         6.6       -2.7        1.o


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                    1982                                        IGrowth of Investment and GDP (%)             I
(% of GDP)                                                     1992      2001          2002

Agriculture                                                     48.0      44.8          44.4     '5

Industry                                                        16.2       16.0         16.3     'O
    Manufacturing                                                8.2        7.4          7.6      5
Services                                                        35.8       39.2         39.3
Private consumption                                             80.0       79.9         77.1     -5
General government consumption                    .I    ..      19.6       11.7         12.5
Imports of goods and services                                                                               -GDI            +GDP


                                                 1982-92
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                                      3.6        5.4          5.0     " T                                          I
Industry                                                         5.3        6.9          9.3     40
    Manufacturing                                                4.3        5.0          7.8     20
Services                                                         3.7        5.5          6.2      0
Private consumption                                              3.9       24.0          2.3    -20
General government consumption                                   1.9      -32.6         13.6    -40
Gross domestic investment                                        0.7        5.8          6.7             -Exports           -Imports
Imports of goods and services                                    2.3       19.5         -3.3                                                  I
Note: 2002 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
     be incomplete.




                                                                      - 73 -

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                                 I
                                                 1982     1992         2001     2002
Domestic prices                                                                          Inflation (%)                                        I
(% change)                                                                              30

Consumer prices                                  28.9      21.8          5.2      4.6   25

Implicit GDP deflator                                                                   20
                                                           25.4          6.2      4.2   15

Government finance                                                                      10

(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                                                         HI1
                                                                                         5
                                                                                         0
Current revenue                                            12.7         11.4    11.5              87      98
                                                                                                          98     88       00       01       02
Current budget balance                                      0.8          -0.7    -1.4     O       e7             98       00       0:

                                                           -1.6          -5.0                      -GDPdeflator           b C P I
                                                                                 -5.7  II '
Overall surplus/deficit

TRADE                                                                                                                                         I
                                                 1982     1992         2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                           Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                               411       414          772     737    2,000  T
 Coffee                                            134       60           57      70
 conon                                              56       98           33      41
 Manufactures                                       43       64           56      38
Total imports (ci0                               1,128    1.357        1,726    1,889
 Food                                              106       25          169
 Fuel and energy                                  256       142          106
 Capital goods                                     527      639          755     813
Export price index (1995=100)                       86       75          151      156            w     87     88    88      00    01

Import price index (1995=100)                       77      101          102      110               la Exports        BImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          112       74          148      141

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                                 1982      1992        2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                            Current account balance to GDP (X)                   I
Exports of goods and services                      645      548        1,430    1,569      0
Imports of goods and services                    1,201    1,885        2,232    2,224      1
Resource balance                                  -556   .1,337         -802     -656      2
                                                                                           3
Net income                                          -85    -187           -85     -45     -4
Net current transfers                                24     456           -19      10      5
                                                                                          4
Current account balance                           -523     -714         -738               7

Financing items (net)                              524      817          909               8

Changes in net reserves                               0    -102         -171               8
                                                                                 -347    -10

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                    9.3   297.7        876.4    966.6

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                 1982      1992         2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                             :omposition of 2002 debt (US$mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             6,202    6,675        6,879    7.238
  IBRD                                             211       171            6       6
  IDA                                              414     1.618       2.588    2,869                    G: 606 A'

Total debt service                                  152     235           154     128
   IBRD                                              25       45            4       3
   IDA                                                4       19           35      22
Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                   309     697           927
  Official creditors                                231     263            93     179
  Private creditors                                  31      -45          -21     -21
   Foreign direct investment                         17       12          224
   Portfolio equity                                   0        0            0

 World Bank program
   Commitments                                       71       60          355      57      i IBRD                             E Bilateral
   Disbursements                                                                              ~                                   ~
                                                    107      235          119     148      I IDA       D. Other multilateral  F. Private
   Principal repayments                              10       39           23        8     2-- IMF                             G   - Short-terr
   Net flows                                         97      196           96     140
   Interest payments                                 18       25            17      17
   Net transfers                                     79      171           80     123

 Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                                       8/20/03




                                                                   - 74 -

                                Annex 11: IncrementalCost Analysis
    WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Research and Capacity Building for Management


Context andBroadDevelopmentGoals

1.       Context. Although they occupy only 0.1% o f the ocean's surface, coral reefs are the world's
richest repositories o f marine biodiversity, and are the largest living structures on earth. Like their
terrestrial counterparts, the rainforests, coral reefs support an array o f environmental goods and services,
whose ecological, cultural and economic value exceed our current capacity to quantify. Yet, despite their
global significance, coral reefs are indecline worldwide.

2.       The Global Status o f Coral Reefs 2002 Report, lists two thirds o f the world's reefs as under severe
threat from the cumulative impacts o f economic development and associated impacts o f climate change.
Evenmore recent reporting from the Scientific community (Science VOL 301 15AUGUST 2003) stresses
the now-global extent o f coralreef decline.

3.       The root causes of the deterioration o f coral reefs have historically been attributed to direct human
impacts, such as over fishing and destructive fishingpractices, and chronic forms o f near shore pollution;
including sewage and sedimentation from poor land use practices. However, over the last several decades
trends inclimate-related episodes have begunto have significant impacts on coral reef ecosystems, andthe
combination o f such events, combined with chronic forms o f stress, are likely acting synergistically inthe
deterioration o f coral reefs. The cumulative impact o f threats to coral reef ecosystems is exacerbated by
these historically rapid rates o f changes inclimate globally, which places enormous stress on the ability o f
coral reefs to adapt. That the negative trends appear to be observed in all coral reef regions o f the world
clearly indicate the global scope o f the problem.

4.       Calls for more effective conservation and more sustainable use o f coral reef ecosystems have been
a familiar theme in global forums, from the Intemational Coral Reef Initiative, to the Convention on
Biological Diversity (1995), the Intemational Tropical Marine Ecosystems Management Symposia
(ITMEMS Iand 11, 1998 and 2003, respectively), and most recently, the World Summit on Sustainable
Development (2002). The WSSD Plan o f Implementation identifies coral reefs as unique and vulnerable
ecosystems that play a crucial role in the economies o f Small Island Developing States (SIDs) and other
developing states, and urges partners to: (i)  implement the Framework for Action of the Intemational Coral
Reef Initiative (ICIU); (ii)  implement the Jakarta Mandate on Marine Biodiversity o f the Convention on
Biological Diversity; and (iii)strengthen capacity globally to manage these ecosystems through
science-basedmanagement andinformation sharing.

5.       Many coral reefconservation andmanagement initiatives have been launched inresponseto these
challenges. As examples, the World Bank, inpartnership with the GEF and others currently has over $270
Million in active or pipeline projects in which coral reefs are a significant focus                          o f
conservatiodsustainable use management effort.           The United Nations Foundation, through UNEP, has
catalyzed the launch o f the Intemational Coral Reef Action Network, and several Intemational
Non-Governmental Organizations (e.g. the World Wildlife Fund, The Nature Conservancy, Conservation
Intemational) have launched programs in an attempt to reverse coral reef decline.                 However, the
effectiveness of these interventions is undermined by a paucity of information about what determines
ecosystem sustainability and resilience to major disturbance events in an environment o f increasing and
variable stress.   This information can only come from robust empirical observation and research on
 stresshesponse interactions, analysis o f ecosystem drivers and threshold points. From such research it is


                                                       - 75 -

possible to produce knowledge and to help national and local coral ref managers apply this knowledge by
developing the tools and approachesneededto manage with credibility and effectiveness. Such systematic
research must be targeted to management needs and of sufficient temporal and geographic scale to
discriminate long-term trends from background noise and local ecosystem response from larger scale,
potentially global effects.

6.      Project Scope. Without the understanding o f key ecosystemprocessesand how they interact with
the range o f stressors facing coral reefs today, management interventions, short o f complete removal o f the
sources o f stress, will continue to be largely guesswork. The precautionary principle i s currently our best
tool to counteract threats from economic development and climate change whose impacts we do not fully
understand. T h ~ sis, however, a blunt instrument which is both economically and socially costly, andhence
rarely applied.

7.      The alternative approach, which this project embodies, i s to support coral reef management with
World-class targeted research. This involves scientists asking the right questions whose answers can benefit
management and then providing managers with the best available science-based answers to them, e. g., to
identify major drivers or bottlenecks in sustaining coral reef ecosystem goods and services, or to improve
the cost-effectiveness of applications of existing tools, like Marine Protected Areas and coastal and ocean
zoning, and the use remote sensing and modeling to support decisions. Such targeted research may also
lead to development and application o f new tools, such as biotechnology, inthe design o f bio-indicators o f
reef stress or resistance to bleaching, and in the identification o f pathogens and their pathways o f
transmission. At the macro scale, this might involve the development o f new tools like genetic markers to
reveal connectivity between reef systems or techniques to enhance natural recovery and restore reefs
damaged from blast fishing or cyanide. This new knowledge, when disseminated and linked to
decision-making, has the capacity to dramatically increase the effectiveness o f current and future
management interventions as well as improvements to policies at the national level. It also lends credibility
and accountability to decision-making and has the potential to generate the political will neededto make
tough trade-offs between conservation and intensive use. These are the development objectives o f this
project.

8.       This Coral Reef Targeted Research Project will be the first phase o f a long term coral reef
targeted research program. The program will be implemented in phases; this Project's first five-year
phase will initiate research in areas o f the world with significant coral reefs and Bank/GEF investments.
These include sites in Mesoamerica, East Afiica, Southeast Asia, and the Southwestern Pacific. Research
nodes will be establishedat existinginstitutions that have the capacity to develop into Centers o f Excellence
inthe region, andthat may serve as resources andinformationclearing housesto satellite sites (involved in
collaborative researchor management), withinandbetween regions.

9.       The Project has the following four main objectives andcomponents:

a. Addressing:Knowledge andTechnolow Gam
10.      Over the past ten years, awareness o f the importance o f coral reefs has increased sharply,
especially in light o f their rapid decline in many regions, and their significance to developing countries.
However, significant gaps remaininour understanding o f some o fthe basic forcing functions andprocesses
affecting coral reefs-to   the extent that current management options are severely limited.The Project will
systematically define information gaps, and prioritize them in an order o f strategic importance to
management, so that the resulting information and tools developed can lead to credlble outcomes.
Furthermore, policies developed at regional and national levels will also be strengthened to improve
legislation to sustain the products andservices provided to SIDS andcoastal communities by coral reefs.


                                                     - 76 -

11.     This component o f the Project is organized around six key themes and major researchcategories,
which will be investigated by interdisciplinary teams o f developing and developed country scientists. These
themes were identified through extensive consultation over the course o f project preparation to encompass
the kinds o f knowledge and management tools that underpin sustainability science for coral reefs. They
include:

        The physiological mechanisms and ecological consequences o f large area (or massive) coral reef
        bleaching, particularly inresponseto sea surface temperature anomalies, like the ElNZolSouthern
        Oscillation episodes, and the potential consequences o f their changes infiequency;
        The nature, severity and spreado f coral reef diseases, some o f which may be responsible for major
        shifts inthe structure, function, healthand sustainability o f coral reefs;
        The importance o f larger-scale ecological processes, and the physical and biological connections
        (or "connectivity") between coral reefs, whether within or between different regions. This also has
        direct bearing on the environmental conditions and key design factors needed to establish and
        sustain effective Marine Protected Areas (MPAs);
        The tools, technologies and efficacy o f restoring coral reefs that have been severely degraded or
        destroyed, and the key organisms and environmental conditions to consider when rehabilitating a
        givencoralreefenvironment;
        The application o f advanced technology, particularly remote sensing, to refine information and
        enhance the rate and scale at which knowledge can be generated and applied. This includes the
        need to modify technology so that it can be practically deployed and sustained within developing
        countries;
        The need to develop decision support tools and scenario building which integrate economic
        development with bio-physical and other forcing functions to determine coral reef ecosystem
        response to (different kind and rates oQ change or stress. Included inthis type of analysis may be
        the impact o f human stress on altering trophic relationships on coral reefs, particularly the
        relationship between nutrients, overfishing, and the overgrowth o f corals by seaweeds and the
        reversibility o f transitions between coral dominated and algal-dominated states. The development
        o f models will incorporate the economic value o f coral reefs, the socio-economic factors that affect
        the sustainable use o f coral reefs, and the factors that inhibit translation of science into
        management.

b. Promoting Scientific LearningandCapacitv Building
 12.    Currently, most coral reef research is based in universities and research institutions in the
developed countries, while most coral reefs are located in developing countries. Rectifying this global
discrepancy is the key mission o f this project component.

 13.     In order to achieve this objective, the Targeted Research investigations will focus around four
"Centers o f Excellence" (COE) infour major coral reef regions (WesternCaribbean (Universidad Nacional
Authoma de MCxico), Eastern Africa (Marine Science Institute, University o f Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar,
Tanzania), Southeast Asia (Marine Science Institute, University of the Philippines), and the central south
Pacific (University o f Queensland, Australia).

 14.     These COEs will serve as nodes for targeted leaming andcapacity buildingbetween developed and
 developing country scientists -- to ensure that the information ultimately used by managers is regionally
 appropriate, and to train local scientists so that they can respond to hture developments. Through twinning
 arrangementsbetween various universities andresearch institutions, coral reef scientists will exchange with
partner institutions to share cutting edge techniques e.g., the identification o f coral pathogens,


                                                       - 77 -

measurements o f metabolic stress linkedto specific environmental stressors, the use of genetic markers to
track larval dispersal and connectivity, and application of agent-based modeling techniques to simulate
coral reef ecosystem response to various forms o f stress. The Targeted Research Project will support a
series o f workshops eachyear which will bringresearchersinthe various working groups together to orient
field research, briefeach other on findings andbased on these results, modify anddesign the next phase of
research.

c. Linking Scientific Knowledge to Management andPolicy
15.      A thirdmajor objective and outcome of this Targeted ResearchProject will be to improve global
predictive capability in assessing impacts to coral reef ecosystems, in the face of cumulative stress from
increasing coastal populations, changes in climate and other uncertainty. The targeted investigations are
designed to feed into decision support systems for managers, policy makers, andother stakeholders.

16.      The results generated from the targeted investigations will be formulated for application into
management and policy contexts. Over the course o f project implementation, the information and tools
produced will be disseminated as knowledge products to enhance the management approaches and
interventions. These products may range from in-situ diagnostics (for example, disease assessment and
bio-indicators o f specific forms o f stress and metabolic response in coral reef organisms, to markers for
larval recruitment indicating source and sink reefs) to remote sensing products and applications to assess
the state o f coral reef health. In addition to these tools, a series o f management and policy briefs will be
developed periodically by the Synthesis Panel and releasedto targeted audiences. These audiences include
the World Bank Country Directors and Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and Poverty Reduction
Strategy (PRS) teams, GEF project teams, policy-makers, andmember of regional and global fora (e.g, the
IPCC, CSD, ICRI, SBSTTA, Regional Seas Conventions).

 17.      Links will be made between research results and management efforts in the four regions. Each
Center o f Excellence will serve as the conduit o f information to satellite sites and various user/stakeholder
groups (including NGOs and others involved in MPA management, coastal zone management and marine
regulation, national and community-based coral reef management activities, and ecosystem monitoring
efforts. NGOs active in the region, represent a particularly cost-effective means to communicate findings
to managers and help convert them into low-tech solutions for direct application to developing country
management needs. These include tool kits for managers, as well as those involvingbio-indicators to assess
 stress in key reef species. At the other end o f the spectrum, high level audiences will be kept abreast o f
 research findings through publications o f each o f the working groups; through Synthesis Panel briefings,
 andinthe form ofperiodicmanagementandpolicy briefs.

 18.      The project component's main stakeholder and beneficiary groups will be both developing and
 developed country scientists who-for     the first time inhistory for this scientific community-will    have an
 opportunity to collaborate on address problems at a regional and global perspective that would not have
 been possible up until this point in time. It i s anticipated that this project will result in a considerably
 strengthened institutional and human resource capacity, awareness and an improved, global information
 base from which the Centers o f Excellence, visiting country scientists, managers, andacademic institutions
 andagencieswill benefit.

 19.      Additional target beneficiaries are members o f the global community who also benefit from the
 biodiversity of coral reef ecosystems and services. It i s anticipated that the project will result insignificant
 gains inbiodiversity conservation and sustainabledevelopment knowledge, information, awareness, income
 andnon-monetary economic benefits. Finally, the GEF will also be a beneficiary of this project by gaining
 new insights into the best application o f future GEF funding as applied to specific management and


                                                       - 78 -

conservation options for coral reefs andrelated marine resourceswithin its member countries.

d. Proiect ExecutionandAdministration
20.      Given the global extent and the multidisciplinary nature of this undertaking, a carefully designed
project execution and administration component is a critical part o f the overall framework. The project
involves renowned researchers from over 50 institutions who will carry out integrated, coral reef targeted
researchprojects infour regions around the world. Inaddition, these scientists will work together to ensure
that local capacity inthe regions in which they work will be built over time, so that local scientists can
benefit.

21.      The successful execution o f the project will be contingent on an implementing arrangement with
committed individuals and institutions, a good govemance structure, fiscal andmanagerial responsiveness,
and sound financial management. This involves the coordination between the various working groups, and
the related field work, the SynthesisPanel, the Centers ofExcellence, the distillationofrelevant information
andits appropriate communicationinthe contexts of scientific peer review, management application, policy
and sustainabledevelopment. As part of the project's preparation a range o f institutional models have been
considered and evaluated. A model has been chosen that balances the need for speed and efficiency in
supporting the on-the-ground targeted research, with the need for technical and fiscal accountability in
reaching the project objectives andgoals.

22.      The project will be managed by a Project Executing Agency (PEA), which will liaise with all of the
Technical Working Groups, regional Centers o f Excellence, and individual project staff when necessary.
The PEA will have a fully dehcated staff to oversee project implementation, outreach and communication
activities, and future planning (including development activities to identify future co-financing and new
partnerships).    Such a staff will include, at a minimum, a senior level Executive Officer, a Project
Coordinator, an Outreach and Communications Specialist, and a Financial Manager. These will be full
time positions, preferably working out o f the same centralizedproject office. Inaddition, the PEA will hire,
as necessary, short term consultants to 1) design workshops to integrate the research efforts o fthe scientific
Working Groups, 2) oversee capacity-building efforts within the regions, and 3) disseminate synthesized
results of targeted research to recipients involved in coral reef management, such as decision-makers,
non-governmental organizations, anddonor oganizations.

23.      Inadditionto the core management group that works together out of a centralized location, one or
more data managerswill be necessary. Such staff will not only manage the databases, but also develop and
implementmechanismsfor accessingsuch data-- for the scientists involved inthe project andfor the public
at large. The needfor such a position will o f course increase through the life o f the project.

24.      The scientific Working Groups will be responsible for planning detailed research activities ineach
specialty, including choices regarding individual projects and institutions, as well as budgetary decisions
involvingresource allocations andprocurements. Chairs of the scientific Working Groups will develop and
submit annual work plansto the PEA, to bereviewed and approvedby the Synthesis Panel. Eachchair will
also be responsible for evaluating progress made towards the stated goals o f the scientific Working Group
which helshe heads.




                                                    - 79 -

 Baseline Scenario

 25.       Current Situation. Inthe absence of GEF assistance for this project, the scientific community will
 pursue various coral reef targeted research investigations within limited and uncoordinated subject areas
 and geographic scope and using a variety of methodologies. There will be some collaboration between
 developed and developing country scientists, and a poor to modest amount o f additional scientific capacity
 will be developed in the countries and regions where most coral reefs are located. Some of this baseline
 work may receive other forms o f support from public and private foundations and academic institutions,
 and some would be undertaken (inthe case of developing countries) through government institutions' own
 limited financial resources. Ineffect, the baseline work is largely compartmentalized within a country or
 sub-region and will focus on disparate scientific aspects of this global problem, using a variety o f
 methodologies. While some scientific progress will continue to be made, little coordination o f the research
 and little systematic dissemination of the information it produces, within a multi-disciplinary context,
 would occur.

 26.       Given the uncoordinated aspects of current research among investigators, their institutions and
 countries, and the inadequacy o f resources to address problems with a multidisciplinary approach, it is
 almost certain that coral reefs within each of the target regions will continue to be degraded and global
 biodiversity values will continue to be lost unless significant, targeted actions are taken within a
 coordinated operational framework to supplement the current baseline.

 27.       Scope of the Project's Baseline Scenario. Based on an analysis o f current plans for investigative
 activities under the baseline scenario, the following table illustrates where specific resources and activities
 are most likely to take place.                   Baseline expenditures on conservation-related activities are largely
 regionally focused, and so the baseline expenditures primarily generate limited local benefits, not global
 ones.

                    TABLEA 4.1 -SUMMARYOFBASELINECORALREEFRESEARCHACTIVITIES
                                                    I
 No.   I NATUREOFINVESTMENT                          GEOGRAPHICFOCUS                        Budgetamounts over 1-5 years
                                                                                                  (US%Millions)           I
   a.    Regional EnvironmentalMonitoring            Mesoamerican Barrier ReefSystem                                   4.4
         and InformationSystem                       (Mexico, Belize, Guatemala, Honduras)


I  b.                                                                                                                      1
         NOAA Coral Reef Watch Program               Caribbean, Northwest Pacific -US                                  8.0
         Ecology o f Infectious Diseasewithin        Caribbean                                                       0.25
   c.  I Coral Reefs (NSF Grant)

   d.    University o f Queensland.Coral Reef        South Pacific, Mexico                                             1.2
         Climate Change-related investigations.
         Development o f specific indicators related
         to coral bleaching.

   e.    Remote Sensing-methods testing for          Caribbean, Palau                                               0.175
         field sampling and riskmapping

         Total                                                                                                        14.0



 28.       Costs. Over a five year project period, the total expenditures under the Baseline Scenario would be
 approximately USD$14Million. These are constituted as follows:




                                                                 - 80 -

-
a.      RegionalEnvironmental Monitoringand information managementsvstem inthe Mesoamerican
Barrier Reef System.

        Through a project hded by the GEF and World Bank the Mesoamerican region is developing a
        long term program for protection and sustainable use o f the barrier reef system bordering Mexico,
        Belize, Guatemala and Honduras. As part o f the project a sub- regionally focused monitoring and
        information management systemis being developed to ensure that:
                   monitoring techniques are appropriate, cost-effective and responsive to the information
                 needs and monitoring capacity o f each country, andthat
                    monitoring protocols are compatible within the region to allow for cross-country
                 comparisons and integration o f data into a regional assessment o f ecosystem health over
                 time.
                    only a small proportion o f resources are allocated to targeted research and field
                 investigations, with the bulko f effort going toward monitoring and reporting.

L       N O A A Coral ReefWatch Promam

        The US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has developed a program that focuses
        on technological applications for coral reef management. NOAA Scientists have developed
        experimental algorithms using satellite sea surface temperature imagery to identify regons o f
        concern for coral bleaching events. With the experimental algorithms, NOAA provides a rendering
        o f sea surface temperaturesinterpreted experimentally for the study o f coral bleaching. Inaddition
        to this work, N O M provides a number o f websites and information products focusing on coral
        reef database management, integrating biological data fiom the reefs with interrelated chemical,
        biological, and physical data o f surrounding marine areas. These data include measurements o f
        coral reef taxa occurrences, numbers, life stages, pathology, productivity, sea water chemistry,
        turbidity, temperature, salinity, currents, bio-optical data, and substratum features.      NOAA
        provides significant support to the United States Coral Reef Task Force and its domestic agenda
        for the protection o f state and territorial coral reefs, but a significant amount o f its work and
        resources also focus on the Caribbean basin and the Pacific Ocean, with an increasing interest in
        supporting international efforts.

-
C.      Ecology o f Infectious Diseases

        Based on a five year grant fiom the (US) National Science Foundation, a number o f investigators,
        some o f whom are working group members, have received grant hndingto further study the nature
        andextent of diseases affecting hardcorals, and particularly sea fans, within the Caribbean Basin.
        The results from this work will contribute to more specific knowledge on the cause and effect o f
        specific diseases or syndromes within this region.

-
d.      Coral Bleaching. Climate Change andDevelopment o f Indicators

        The University o f Queensland has received grant finding fiom a number of sources to conduct a
        range o f studies related to coral reef bleaching and the consequences o f thermal stress on coral
        reefs within the Pacific and to a lesser extent, the western Caribbean (Yucatan Peninsula in
        Mexico). Results fiom this work will lead to the development o f some indicators, but this work
        would be geographically limited in research and application o f results. It would not have the
        potentialto influence policy decisions which may impact on coral reefs



                                                     -81  -

-
e.      Remote Sensingmethods for field samding andrisk maDping

        Academic institutions, such as the University o f Waterloo (Canada), University o f Exeter (U.K.)
        the Australian Institute o f Marine Science and others have committed resources to field test a
        numberof approachesfor coralreefs usingremote sensingtechnology. Inparticular, the prospects
         o f developing maps for areas that may be at higher risk to coral bleaching is being developed using
         Landsat imagery to proxy local bathymetry is being examined. Also, field testing o f the potential
        plot sizes for longterm monitoringusingremote sensing is beingdeveloped.

29.     Benefits. The benefits o f the Baseline Scenario can be characterized as modest. At least some
ongoing research and progress will be made with respect to various scientific investigations. However,
these will be uncoordinated within any adaptive science fiamework (such as this project), and will be o f
limitedbenefit, especially if results remain within the confines of only one or two regions. Furthermore,
results will be o f limited global benefit within any management or policy context given the isolated nature
and lack o f information coordination o f results. O f the activities defined, work within the Mesoamerican
Barrier Reef System) would likelyhave the greatest spatial impact with respect to management application.

GlobalEnvironmentalObjective

30.      The Project's Development Objective andthe Global Environment objective are to fill critical gaps
in our understandingof what determines coral reef ecosystem vulnerability and resilience to a range of
stressors-from climate change to chronic and acute forms o f localized human impacts-- and to use this
knowledge to strengthenmanagement andpolicy globally for the benefit of coral reefs andthe communities
that dependon them. This will be achieved through targeted investigations involving networks o f scientists,
inconsultation with managers, andthe dissemination ofknowledge within andacross regions. The use of
four major coral reef regions is an important aspect o f this work, as it provides the opportunity to
examineandpotentially replicate the findings-whether          the factors affecting coral reefs are more local in
nature or are global in extent, and how results can be usedto strengthen future management options. The
results generated over the life o f this project will also significantly contribute to the GEF's ability to apply
the best use of its limited resources in future conservation efforts where coral reefs and associated
ecosystems are involved. A related objective is to build capacity for science-based management o f coral
reefs indeveloping countries where the majority o freefs are found.

GEFAlternative

31.      Scope. The proposed GEF Altemative aims to develop a global adaptive science framework to
allow scientists to investigate key unknowns regarding ecosystem drivers and how they interact with
various forms o f anthropogenic stress and climate change to determine vulnerability or resilience o f coral
reef ecosystems to these major forms o f environmental "disturbance." The targeted research has been
carefully designed inspecific areas o f study by the various working groups, to test hypothesesrelevant to
management decision-making and to inform end-users o f the implications o f the results so that they can
be readily applied. The project scope o f the GEF Altemative includes the project components summarized
above.. The GEF alternative will mark the first time in history within this scientific discipline that a
strategic and coordinated set o f investigations-designed within an adaptive framework-         will be organized
 and executed on a global scale. The four major coral reef regions were selectedbased on the prospects of
 establishing Centers o f Excellence within important areas where investigations can be successfully staged,
 and where there are significant opportunities for sharingknowledge and extending scientific capacity and
 learning.

 32.     Costs. The total additional expenditures associated with the GEF Altemative are estimated to be


                                                       - 82 -

 about US$20.00 million; these are summarized in Table A4.2              The GEF Altemative would involve
 expanded and new activities as described in the project components section above, and are summarized
 below:

 Component        indicative      %of        Co-financing      % of          GEF             %of
                  costs           Total      (USSM)            Co-financing  financing       GEF
                  (USSM)                                                     (USSM)          Financing
 1.Knowledge&     11.20             50.0     3.20              28.0          8.00             72.5
 TechnologyGaps
 2. Linking       4.20              19.0     3.00               27.0         1.20             11.0
 Scientific
 Knowledgeto
 Management
 3. Promoting     4.00              18.0     2.60               23.0         1.40             12.5
1Leamingand
 CapacityBuilding
 4. Project       2.90              13.0     2.50               22.0         0.40             4.0
 Administration
,Total Project 22.30               100.0     11.30             100.0         11.oo           100.0
 costs




 33,       Benefits. The GEF Altemative will achieve all the benefits from the Baseline Scenario, but will
 enable further global benefits to be achieved, which can then be applied regionally and locally within
 appropriate management contexts to achieve additional regionavlocal benefits. Inaddition to the Baseline
 benefits, incremental benefits to the global community include the ability to conserve and sustain globally
 sigmficant and representative biodiversity within each o f the four regions, and to understand globally
 important drivers and trends in coral reef ecosystem health and to test and apply management options that
 may be broadly applied to mitigate impacts at the local andbroader scales.

 34.        The GEF Altemative also provides institutional benefits that remove a number o f the barriers to
 long term biodiversity conservation inthese ecosystems.These institutionalbenefits include the following:

      0     Strengthened links between science and policy for substantive and sustained change in
            behaviorkublic sector, corporate and local governance) in favor of coral reef ecosystemsf
            Coral Reef Ecosystems. The involvement o f the Bank in promoting policy reforms based on
            reliable science, through country dialogue with clients and through its convening power in
            international for a will advancethis outcome.
      0     Development of protocols for the design of more effective MPA networks and other decision
            support tools. Under the Baseline, "on-the-ground" experimental work, field testing of tools and
            interventions to enhance management in light o f research findings, and decision support tools to
            help policymakers visualize the results o f various development options is unlikely to occur. Under
            the GEF Altemative, by contrast, the communication and outreach activities designed to directly
            linkscience to managementwill educate stakeholdersandhelp ensurethat decisions are informed,
            andtradeoffs clearly spelled out. This will discourage short-term decision-making andincreasethe
            prospect for consistency inpolicies across sectors which have potential impacts on coral reefs.

 35.        Domestic Benefits. It is estimated that incremental domestic benefits o f about US$4.00 million will
 be realized in the GEF Altemative case. These benefits are associated largely with the Centers o f
 Excellence, and with direct interventions supported through the targeted initiatives inthe GEF Altemative.
 Other indirect benefits may also be realized through improved project review and determination o f future
 components, based on the knowledge gained from the findings. Also, ecosystem management (e.g.,


                                                        - 83 -

           improved watershed management, enhanced local existence values) but any incremental economic benefits
           from these improvements have not beenestimated or includedhere; they are acknowledged to be one of the
          justifications for some level o f Baseline support as a whole and for some hrther contributions towards the
           incremental costs identifiedunder the GEF Altemative.

           IncrementalCosts

           36.       The total expenditure under the Baseline Scenario is estimated to be US$14.0 million while the
           total expenditure under the GEF Alternative is estimated to be approximately US$36.0 million. The
           incremental expenditures (costs) under the GEF Alternative are therefore US$22.0 million for the first
           phaseproject.

           37.       O f the incremental expenditures (costs) o f US$22.0 million, the GEF is requestedto hndUS$11.0
           million; the balance will be fundedby other donors andstakeholders.
                                       Table A4.3 - coral reef targeted research and capacity building
                                                     IncrementalCost Determination
                                                            (US $ million) [2003$]
Component                 Category          cost        Regional/ Local Benefit                                  GlobalBenefit
A. Knowledge &            Baseline        1IUS$10.75  1ISpecific areasofinquiry(not necessarilytiedto          1ISomebenefitsbasedon informationproductsor
Technology Gaps                                         adaptiveor appliedscience) will continue. Some         I toolsthat mightbe appliedinmorethan one
                                                        regions andlocalitieswill benefitfrom the findings.      region(e.g. NOAA SST dataproducts,
                                                                                                                 indicatorsfrom DiseaseResearch, UQ)
                          With GEF        I US21.95   I Improved coordinationofpriority unknowns (using        IIStrategicuncoveringofpriority unknowns
                          Alternative                   similar methods) targetedwithin-fourregions  Ad-         throughanadaptivescientific approachrelated
                                                        cross-referencedwhere possible. Sharing ofmethods,       to the sustainabilityofcoralreefecosystems
                                                        investigativetechniques and informationproducts.         throughimprovedmanagementandpolicy
                                                                                                                 options.
                          ncremental        USS11.20  -                                                          -
B. Linking Scientific     Baseline          US2.3       Improvementofmonitoring and informationacrossa           -
Knowledgeto                                             specificregion (Le. the MBRSregion inthe
Management                                              Caribbean)
                          With GEF        I US6.5     IIImproved communicationoftargetedinformation
                          Alternative                   acrossmultipleregions anddisciplines. Working            regionally threatenedecosystems.Translationof
                                                        Groupsto specificallywork with management                targetedresearchto managementandpolicy.
                                                        intereststo improvemanagementoptionsand                  Enhancedopportunitiesto engageinmeaningful
                                                        approaches.                                              discussionwith other disciplines(economics,
                                                                                                                 law, sustainable development).
                          ncremental        USS4.20     US.SO.00                                               Ipotestimated.
C. Promoting Learning      Baseline         US$l.OO     -
and Capacity Building                                                                                          I -
                           With GEF         US$5.00     Enhancedmonitoring and informationexchange               Enhancedinformation exchangebetween
                           Alternative                  permittingadaptivemanagement. Efficient delivery         developedanddevelopingcountryscientists.
                                                        ofproject funds, andevaluationofprogress.                Efficientcoordinationofimplementing
                                                        Demonstrationoffinancingmodelsthatpotentially             institutions,andmonitoring ofprogress.
                                                        will betransferableto other protectedareas, with
                                                        concomitantefficiency gains.
                          :ncremental       USS4.00     US$                                                     -
D. Project                 Baseline         US$O.OO     -                                                        -
Administration
                           With GEF         US$2.90     EstablishmentofCentersofExcellencewithin four             Coordinationofglobal efforts, adaptive science
                           Alternative                  regionsto serve as learningcenters andmagnetsfor          to benefitmanagementandpolicy. Efficient
                                                        eachRegion.                                               delivery ofproject funds, andevaluationof

                          [ncremental       USS2.90     US$                                                      -progress.
                           Baseline         US$14.0
Totals                     With GEF         US36.3
                           Alternative
                          [ncremental       USS22.30    USSO.00                                                  -




                                                                       - 84 -

                              Annex 12: STAP Roster Technical Review
    WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Researchand Capacity Building for Management


  "World investigationof localised stress and compoundingeffects on climate change on sustainability
             of coral reef systems" a targetedresearchproject submitted by the WorldBank
                                     Sent to GEF on September 9,2003
The STAF' and the GEF Targeted Research Committee is very pleased to have had the opportunity to
review the World Bank's Coral Reef Targeted Research Proposal scheduled for submission to the GEF
Council in November 2003'. The Research Committee realizes that this project should have been at the
time o f pipeline-entryiPDF-B stage and appreciates the opportunity o f being able to review it at this stage.
Inthe future, the ResearchCommittee very muchhopesthe processis successfully inplace to supporttheir
capacity as committed scientists andreviewers o f GEF targeted researchproposals at the appropriate stage.
The Research Committee trusts that its concerns on this coral reef targeted proposal will be addressedin
the final documentation Some members o f the ResearchCommittee would like to reserve the right to send
inmore details comments at alater stage, whilst othershaveincorporated themhere..

Overall, this is a well-conceived targeted research(TR) that i s addressing the stresses that are affecting the
coral reefs o f the world. Its basic approach is well stated andthe outcomes it i s seeking have the potential
to advance our understanding o f the various stresses andtheir impacts on coral reefs. However, as written,
we have a few concerns that make us uncertain as to whether the TR will deliver what is beingpromised.
We have summarised our concerns below and they cover aspects of choice o f the sites, institutions and
individual scietists, scientific management and leadership, the transfer o f the scientific information into
management actions and comments on the proposed work by each of the Working Groups. Where
possible, we have made suggestions that could be implemented to overcome these. We very much hope
they canhelp strengthenthe proposal andachievethe neededoutcomes o fthis TR.

1.       The choice of the specific sites is not clear and should be clarified. It is not clear as to why the
         specific sites mentioned were chosen for the research (and neither is the choice o f
         individuals/institutions- see below). In an ideal world, the project would be carried out in sites
         that were representative of different coral reef systems, types o f sediments, eutrophic impacts,
         stresses, spatial characteristics (eg. region and current systems) and biodiversity. Why are some
         regions excluded, eg. the insular Caribbean?

2.       The synergies between the Working Groups, and the way stresses are being addressed at any
         of the selected site, need to be clarified. From the documentation presented, the synergies
         between the Working Groups are not clear. It appears that the multiple stresses that the project
         emphasises are not being addressed at all the sites. We would have assumed that this would have
         been one o f the priorities and strengths o f the project. From Appendix 6 it is hardto see what is
         going to be researched at what site. It would be extremely useful to present a site/activity table.
         This would really bring out if many o f the stresses are indeed going to be addressed at the various
         sites. We realise that the technical appendices do provide more details for much o f the work, but
         essentially address the issues inthat working group andnot across the working group.

3.       Plans should be developed to expose the project to a wider scientific scrutiny and seek their
         collaboration where needed. Inaddition to the selection o f sites, how and why certain individuals
         (especially team leaders) were chosen is not clear. The project should ideally have involved a wide
         range o f scientists and institutions from developing and developed countries and at least attempted



                                                      -85-

    to involve the best experts inthose regions. We appreciate that this is not an easy task (both due to
    difficulties in identifying the best experts and the possibility o f not being able to attract their
    interest and time). Given the stage o f the project, we would like to encourage the proposed
    activities be reviewedmore extensively by intemationally recognised experts involved incoral reef
    researchandseek their collaboratiodinvolvement when necessary. A possible mechanism mightbe
    through a workshop inconjunction with a web-based discussion or a large intemational coral reef
    conference, so there is a wider exposure o f the proposed activities and an extensive review. The
    STAP can also suggest experts from the developing anddeveloped world.

4.  The different working groups work needs to be brought together under strong scientific
    leadership. From the present draft, it is not clear that the Synthesis Panel and its chair would be
    able to bringthe multiplestresses and the work at the various sites together even with an extemal
    chair. The Working Groups state that the other working groups would provide the information,
    data or expertise, but again, from the description given, it i s not clear how this is going to be done
    -what are the questionsthat would be addressedandhow would the informationbebrought
    together. Thus, the role andthe value addedo f the Synthesis Panel needsto be clarified, inaddition
    to the synergiesbetweenthe Panel andthe Working Groups.

5.  The project should state how it is building on existing information. It is not clear from the
    proposal on how the Project will interact and benefit from the existing GEF interventions which
    includes a coral reef management component. This should be further elaborated inthe proposal. It
     i s even more intriguing that there is little or no mention of how the project will build on what has
     already been done by institutions such as, ICRAN, ICRI, ICN, N O M , others involved in the
     insular Caribbean and the Cooperative Research Centre for Reefs in Australia. These institutions
     and others can also become potential collaborators and their existing resources and networks can
    become part o f information dissemination, e.g., as part o f the learningexchanges process, the data
     generated can also be distributed via nodes such as SIDSNET, which already has nodes in the
     Caribbean andthe Pacific.

6.   There appears to be lack of consultation, needs analysis and engagement of the potential
     managers. We do not see evidence that the management action will result from the scientific
     findings. Is there evidence that the managers are lookingfor `science-based' solutions? Have they
     been consulted @e. user needs assessment done) and if so what were the outcomes? Have the
     managers had informationpresentedto themby individuals or institutions involvedbefore andhave
     the managers taken action?         There is no clear mechanism presented on how the scientific
     dormationwill result inmanagement actions.

7.   Management implications/outcomes are weak in all the working groups and need to be
     strengthened. Linkages to other working groups are weak, including datdinformation and
     methodology transfer.        Further information has to be presented to really demonstrate the
     mechanism for the transfer o f the information to the mangers and its subsequent use. Section D,
     project rationale, does not mention the underlying causes. The management options should surely
     have to consider these before any "new" management strateges are put into place.

8.   We encourage the projectto incorporatethe active involvementoflocalcommunities fromthe
      beginning. The approach taken at each of the sites appears to be very top down. We have seen
      little or no mention o f the local communities that do manage andrely on many of the coral reefs of
      the world. Insome cases, we hope that they have people who have already been doing work on the



                                                    - 86 -

        ground as otherwise it is going to be very hardfor the scientists andmanagersto walk inanddo the
        work (e.g. in Papua New Guinea). Therefore, an initial stakeholder analysis would help in
        identifyingandengagingthe local communities.

9.      We are concerned about the participationof developingcountry scientists and the funds that
        will be allocated to them. It would be helpful to indicate what is the ratio of experts from
        developing countries participating in the research, and what is the proportion o f funds being
        allocated to developing countries.

10.     There appears to be a lack of post-interventionfollow-up and needs to be stated clearly. In
        terms o f GEF global environment impacts, it is important to identify follow-up strategies. It seems
        to be missingentirely inthe documentation. Further clarification is needed on what entities would
        follow up after the interventions? How would the follow-up occur?

11.     Some of the assumptions being made need clarification and testing, (e.g. disease and the
        interaction with water quality is too simplified and generalised) and the appropriate Working
        Groups need to add that this will be tested. We feel that the project should point out the challenges
         andalso the assumptionsthat apply to the replicability andtransferability ofthe results.

12.      The summary of the proposedwork by some of the Working Groups(see below) is excellent,
         but some others need to be strengthenedboth in terms of the methodology and perhaps the
         experts involved. In particular we would like to highlight our concerns about Modelling and
         Decision Support Working Group andwithinthat "Field validation". Fieldvalidation is a a critical
         aspect and needs to be considered in more detail than in the cursory manner presented here with
         (both within the main project proposal and inthe Technical Annex 1). There is no indication as to
         how field validation will be undertaken, and no consideration o ftemporal andspatial scales etc.


More specific comments on theWorking Groups
Our comments are based on the Annexes in the main document but we have also checked in the six
Scientific Annexes provided.        The quality o f the documentations in these annexes seems to vary
considerably. Again a strong scientific leadership for the whole project couldhelp overcome this.

Some comments across the working groups are:

   a)    Scaling issues: Some o f the information (e.g. IPCC scenarios) are available mostly at the global
         level, andyet the coral abundance, reef biodiversity etc is a t local andat best regional level. How
         would these be incorporated into the models?
  b)     Some of the modelling work mentioned in various work in the appendix is hardto do on land let
         alone an "open" system as that o f coral reefs. We are not convinced that enough thought has been
         given to this ciritical section inall the working groups.
   c)    Only $3.0 million are allocated to "linking scientific knowledge to management", the same amount
         that is allocated to project administration. Ifthe former is an important goal o f the project, is this
         level o f fimding proportionately adequate? Perhaps the team might wish to revisit this fimding
         allocation.
Specificcomments on each ofthe workinggroupsproposedwork
1.       Bleaching Working Group: has some weaknesses. Some parts o f the summary o f the proposed
         work are excellent, however, other portions o f the summary are less thorough, and give the
         impression that little or no work has been done inthe three activities listed in the first paragraph.


                                                      - 87 -

    We can only assume that since some o f the processes involved, eg. changes in physiology to
    individuals reef systems, globe, are long-term that data needed on this would be somehow (through
    individuals andinstitutions involved?) be incorporated inthe project.

2.  DiseasesWorking Group: overall good.

3.  Connectivity -various issuesneed to be improved, such as:
    a.   There is not enough evidence to indicate that what is proposed is achievable in the defined
         time fiame.
    b.   It is not clear as to what techniques will have to be developed andwhich ones will be M e r
         expanded.
    c.   How long would it take to do develop the tools to identify andmonitor stress and would these
         techniques be easily andquickly transferable to the other regions?
    d.   I s any o f the information transferable to other regions and coral reefs with different history,
         biodiversity andset o f stresses?
    e.   Are the researchers concentrating on "keystone species" so they may obtain a good
         understanding of the critical processes?
    f. Isthere a logic for choosingto concentrateonlobsters, groupers andsnappers?

4.  Restoration Working Group: well presented summary o f the intended work, although again it
    would have been useful to say if pilot or other work suggests that the experimental work being
    suggestedcan be done over the spatio-temporal scale o f the project.

5.  Remote sensing Working Group: this seems to promise a great deal and we are not sure if it can
    deliver. Some o f the techniques are a challenge in land-based system and we are not convinced
    that these can be done inthe coral reef systems. Further information on how the project team plans
    to address this would be useful.

6.  Modelling and Decision support Working Group: this is the weakest WG in terms o f the
    information presented. We are not sure if there is sufficient data available to develop an expert
    system. What are some of the challenges and can they be overcome? How will field validation be
    done? This is not trivial and should be clarified (see point 13 above). 12 major sets o f models are
    being proposed and it is not clear how they will be integrated; there will be challenges interms o f
    information available and their spatio-temporal scales and yet this does not come across in the
    summary presented. We are not convinced that the research will lead to definite management
    implications


Someminorpointson the mainprojectproposal
    Section B, page 2 onwards. It would be worth mentioning climate variability as well as climate
    change is being considered; is "unprecedented" bleaching and not "unprecedented mortality" on
    page 3. The section does need to mention the temporal aspects and the potential time lags that
    mightbe ofrelevance to the coralreefsystems
    Would the TR really leadto a "new generation o ftrained scientists" (page 20) in5 years?




                                                 - 88 -

                         Response to STAP Roster technical reviewer's comments
                                                 (in italics)

1.       The choice of the specific sites is not clear and should be clarified. It is not clear as to why the
specific sites mentioned were chosen for the research(and neither is the choice o f individuals/institutions -
see below). Inan ideal world, the project would be canied out insites that were representative of different
coral reef systems, types o f sediments, eutrophic impacts, stresses, spatial characteristics (eg. region and
current systems) andbiodiversity. Why are some regions excluded, eg. the insular Caribbean?
As a result of the Block A consultations which engaged both scientists and managers, a conscious
decision was made to limit the research to 3-4 key coral reef regions of the world during the initialfive
year phase. These regions were selected on the basis of where there were already signijkant GEF and
other investments in coral reef management: where there was the beginning of a critical mass of coral
reefs scientists and infrastructure to support establishment of a regional node (Mihich could evolve into a
Center of Excellencefor coral reef research), and with support.from the Project couldfacilitate research
and capacity building at a number of satellite sites. The research nodes in these regions were carefully
selected in coral reef ecosystems where considerable baseline data was already available and where
resident researchers were engaged in research that could both contribute to and benefit from the
targeted research objectives. (See Brief Section E.4.1)

Under ideal circumstances and significantly larger,financial resources, this project would have greater
spatial replication and site representation within each of the regions ident$ed, and would reflect some
sort of stratiJed random sampling design. However, there will never be enoughfinancial resources to
conduct the kind of spatial replication that would be required to generate rigor and power in a statistical
context (i.e. drawing inference over a sampling universe within a given region). As an alternative, this
project has approached the targeted research with a case-study model, whereby a limited number of
study sites have been identijled, in which a suite of investigations around key themes is carried out and
the information integrated at each site. Results will be compared across sites, wherepossible, to assess
what impact/response relationships may be global in scope as opposed to regional (in terms of
cumulative impacts) or even local in scope. I t is legitimate and necessay tofocus at the outset on a
smaller number of sites until the effectiveness of the reseurch model(s) can be demonstrated.

I t is the project's intention to expand the number of sites as the Project progresses through successive
phases and the working groups move towardfilling critical information gaps through time. This is why
the TargetedResearch has been conceived as a 15 year program. Sequencing is essential in light of the
human and financial resources uvailable and to allow consolidation of results and reformulation of
hypotheses before expanding into new regions and sites.

2.        The synergies between the Working Groups, and the way stresses are being addressed at any
of the selected site, need to be clarified. From the documentation presented, the synergies between the
Working Groups are not clear. It appears that the multiple stresses that the project emphasises are not
beingaddressedat all the sites. We would have assumedthat this would have been one o fthe priorities and
strengths of the project. From Appendix 6 it is hard to see what is going to be researchedat what site. It
would be extremely usefbl to present a site/activity table. This would really bring out if many o f the
stresses are indeed going to be addressedat the various sites. We realise that the technical appendices do
provide more details for much o f the work, but essentially address the issues inthat working group andnot
across the working group.
The suggestion of a site/activity table to lay out what investigations will occur at each site and where
potential synergies between WGs lie is an excellent idea and will be incorporated into the Project Brief
prior to,final submission in November (see Section Cl addressing knowledge and technology gaps). As


                                                     - 89 -

noted above, however, the need to concentrate investigations in a limited number of sites and to sequence
the work in line with proof of concept, resources and logistics, has determined the initial scope and
geographicfocus of the research in phase one. As a result, not all Working Groups will be working at
all sites simultaneously in the initial phases until demonstrations can be completed and then scaled to
other locations. Nevertheless, there is signijkant scope,for synergy between the various working groups,
and maximizing these opportunities and integrating information (especially at diferent scales) is a
foundation of the model, and will be one of the main responsibilities of the Synthesis Panel to see that
this occurs. This is a major strength of the proposed investigations and an example of the high value
added of this approach to targeted research.

 The Synthesis Panel has only been able to meet twice thus far during the Block B phase, but a third
meeting is being planned in December 2003 to coordinatefield work and to confirm procedures for the
sharing of results in real time. In the meantime, there have been many working group meetings in which
representatives ,tom other working groups have attended. This has led to a more coordinated approach
to the development of the WG research agendas and the sequencing offieldwork, as reflected in the draft
technical annexes. The construction of a table to clearly indicate who is doing what where, will help
define this more clearly in the Brief and in the Project ImplementationPlan.

3.        Plans should be developed to expose the project to a wider scientific scrutiny and seek their
collaboration where needed. In addition to the selection o f sites, how and why certain individuals
 (especially team leaders) were chosen is not clear. The project should ideally have involveda wide range o f
 scientists and institutions fiom developing and developed countries and at least attempted to involve the
best experts in those regions. We appreciate that this is not an easy task (both due to difficulties in
 identifyingthe best experts andthe possibility ofnot being able to attract their interest andtime). Giventhe
 stage of the project, we would like to encourage the proposed activities be reviewedmore extensively by
 internationally recognised experts involved in coral reef researchand seek their collaboratiodinvolvement
 when necessary. A possible mechanism might be through a workshop in conjunction with a web-based
 discussion or a large international coral reef conference, so there is a wider exposure o f the proposed
 activities and an extensive review. The STAP can also suggest experts from the developing and developed
 world.
 This comment suggests that the STAP was not aware of the considerable consultation and vetting within
 the scientijk communi@ that went on prior to and during the Block A Phase. The needfor a Targeted
 Research programfor coral ree$ wasfirst conceived in response to the 1997-98 El Nino-mass bleaching
 event, andpresented at the-firstInter-tropical Marine EcosystemsManagement Symposium (ITMEMS) in
 November of 1998. Afer positive initial feedback and, .following a favourable concept review by the
 STAP Research Committee in place at that time, a PDF Block A grant was obtained. ThePDF A was to
 support systematic consultations with the scientijk and management communities in conjunction with
 major coral reef fora, such as the International Conference on Scientific Aspects of Coral Reef
 Assessment, Monitoring and Restoration, 1999 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, USA; the International
 Workshop on Coral Reef Bleaching in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 1999; the 9th International Coral Reef
 Symposium in Bali in 2000 and the ICRI meetings in New Caledonia in 2000, and the Philippines in
 2001. These consultations resulted in the prioritisation of research themes, identijkation of the best
 scientists in the field to undertake this research, and the narrowing down offield sites in line with
 existing knowledge, research infrastructure, GEF investments and anticipated budget.

 The Working Group Chairs, selected to lead the effort in the key thematic areas, arepre-eminent in their
fields. They are highly respected scientists with international reputations. Thesechairs were then invited
 by the WorldBank's team toform working groups based on thefollowing criteria:

  1. Thatdemonstrated scientiJic excellence and rigor be a defining quality of workinggroup composition



                                                     - 90 -

2. That wherepossible, the working group include developing country scientists who clearly meet the
    Jirst criterion in thefield of investigation
3.   That size of the working group not exceed a critical threshold beyond which it is difficult to act
     efficiently and with consensus
4. That the workinggroup members be individuals who are willing to commit to an atmosphere of team
     work and coordinated investigations, and who are willing to share knowledge and approaches with
     others in developing capacity at every opportunity.

Further communication of the concept and of the emerging working groups was made to the external
scientific community during a number of workshops supported with Block Bfunds. TheseexempliJied the
consultation and learning exchanges that the TR Project espouses, and will continue to be a hallmark of
the targeted research model through involvement of the Centers of Excellence (See Brief Section E.4.1).
Examples of these include two workhops, which were held in:

    0    Heron Island, Southern Great Barrier ReeJ; University of Queensland, 25 Feb - 18March 2002,
         attended by 48 researchers and students,
         Puerto Morelos, Mexican Caribbean, Universidad Nacional Autbnoma de Mixico, 9-22
         September 2002, attended by 25 researchers and students.

At these meetings, Working Group members engaged with other senior researchers (invited as
distinguished guests) to share their knowledge and exchange ideas with young doctoral and
post-doctoral students .from participating developing and developed countries.           This has allowed
researchers to collectively discuss, peer-review, design and implement research priorities jointly at two
of the four COEs, while at the same time share information and results across a broad generational
gradient (i.e. an apprenticeship model). At the end of these exchanges, reports have been generated that
have resulted in,fiirtheringpost-workshop application of the information. The TR workshop concept also
serves as a good mechanism within each of the COEs for integrating science into management
considerations by facilitating regional discussions and learning exchanges among scientist, managers,
policy-makes, NGOs andpublic sectors.

The scientific members throughout the working groups are already well connected within their
community of practice, and most, if not all of the WG members are also members of the International
Societyfor Reef Studies (ISRS), and National Chapters of other scientijk organizations. The ISRS hosts
a quadrennial symposium on reef studies, and the next of these (the 10th ICRS) will take place in
Okinawa, Japan in the summer of 2004. This project, and its working group representatives have
already applied for -and have been accepted by the organizing committee of the ISRS-to                  host
mini-symposia on this global project, and to seek ways in which the targeted research can be
strengthened. I n addition, the TargetedResearch will support 2 ISRS research scholarships per year, to
be awarded to outstanding scientistsform developing countries who will carry out research hosted by the
TRProject.

4.        The different working groups work needs to be brought together under strong scientific
leadership. From the present draft, it is not clear that the Synthesis Panel and its chair would be able to
bring the multiple stresses and the work at the various sites together even with an external chair. The
Working Groups state that the other working groups would provide the information, data or expertise, but
again, from the description given, it is not clear how this is going to be done - what are the questions that
would be addressedandhow would the informationbe brought together. Thus, the role andthe value added
o f the SynthesisPanel needsto be clarified, inaddition to the synergies between the Panel andthe Working
Groups.

While we agree that strong scientific leadership is required to bring the working groups together in a


                                                    -91  -

coherent way, we take strong exception to the notion that such scientijic leadership does not exist within
the Project structure we have laid out. As noted before, the Chairs of the Working Groups and other
members of the Synthesis Panel are world class scientists (see technical annexes posted on the website
.for lists of WG Chairs & members). Nevertheless, the Project Team welcomes recommendations from
the STAP of additional scientists whom theyfeel can contribute to, andprovide periodic review ofproject
results and its process.

The role of the SynthesisPanel aspart of the larger Steering Committee, is crucial in reviewing scientiJc
results, to provide a check and balance of priority hypotheses across the working groups, and relating
them across the various disciplines to distil emerging trends, discriminate globalfrom regional or local
patterns of response and steer the research in ever morepromising directions. The recognition of strong
coordination has alreudy been acknowledged, and this has been addressed in the revised section of the
Brief on institutional arrangements. This has been informed by the results of a major study which was
not complete at the time of the STAP review.

5.        The project should state how it is building on existing information. It is not clear from the
proposal on how the Project will interact andbenefit from the existingGEF interventions which includes a
coral reef management component. This should be further elaborated in the proposal. It is even more
intriguingthat there is little or no mention ofhow the project will buildon what has already been done by
institutions such as, ICRAN, ICRI, ICN, N O M , others involved in the insular Caribbean and the
Cooperative Research Centre for Reefs in Australia. These institutions and others can also become
potential collaborators and their existing resources and networks        can become part of information
dissemination, e.g., as part of the learningexchanges process, the data generatedcan also be distributedvia
nodes such as SIDSNET, which already has nodes inthe Caribbean andthe Pacific.

 The TR Project Team has consulted extensively with stuf from the institutions and projects referenced
above. ICRI has been briefed on the status of project development since its inception, at the first
ITMEMS, and then regularly at ICRI Steering Committee (CPC) Meetings and Symposia. Theproject
has thefull endorsement of this group, and infact, it was the result of a presentation to the ICRI CPC in
Maputo in December of 2001 that the East African Node was added, at the insistence of delegatesfrom
the region, including scientists and managers. The existence of several GEF and other donor-supported
projects supporting ecosystem-based coastal resources management in the MBRS region, active scientific
research and a strong commitment of governments and NGOs to conserve the world's second longest
barrier reej was a major factor in the selection of this sub-region, as well as in identifjing a demand
 and opportunity for channelling results. The MBRS Project, COREMAP, ICRAN and other global NGO
 marine conservation initiatives have repeatedly expressed their desire to use the research results
generated from the TR Project to underpin and inform the interventions that are being promulgated
 under these management projects. Here, existing networks like ICRAN and SIDSnet can help to
 disseminate research information to the management community. In contrast to these management
 efforts, theprimary objective of the TR is not to implement better management, or even good governance.
I t is, rather, to create a robust framework for good science (and extend that quality through targeted,
scientific learning) which will lead to new tools, insights about how systems in different places respond
 to various kinds of stress and prospects for their recovev in a changing environment, how they are
 connected in space and time, and how this information can be related to allow managers and
policymakers to anticipate with greater accuracy the impacts of their decisions and have a sounder basis
 on which to intervene. (See Brief Section C.3.Benefits & Target Population).

Institutions such as NOAA and a new Centerfor Coral Reefs and Climate Change at the University of
 Queensland are already enlisted as partners under theproject and areproviding signijkant co-financing
 (NOAA at approximately $10 million in direct and related co$nancing; University of Queensland at


                                                    - 92 -

approximately US $3 million in direct co-financing.)          The TR is also building effectively on the
investigations of its Working Group members, many of whom are engaged in cutting edge research in the
field. For example, within the Connectivity WG, their proposed research will benefit from thefollowing
,foundational work of its members:

 1. GP Jones has published one of the only two studies to empirically document retention of larval reef
     Jish (Jones, G.P., Millicich, M.J.,Emslie, M.J.,Lunow, C. 1999. Selfrecniitment in a coral reefJish
     population. Nature. 402, 802-804.)     There are zero comparable studies on corals or other reef
      creatures.
 2. RK Cowen is responsiblefor an important modelling contribution to connectivity thinking: Cowen,
      R.K., Lwiza, K.M.M., Sponaugle, S., Paris, C.B., Olson, D.B. 2001. Connectivity of marine
     populations: open or closed? Science. 287, 857-859.
 3. S, Thorrold is one of the 2-3 leaders in use of otolith microchemistry to document sources of larval
     fish.
 4. `R. Steneckis a leading expert on theprocesses surrounding coral settlement and recruitment
 5. M. Butler is a leading expert on spiny lobster settlement, recruitment and juvenile ecology in the
      Caribbean.

 6.       There appears to be lack of consultation, needs analysis and engagement of the potential
 managers. We do not see evidence that the management action will result from the scientific findings. Is
there evidence that the managers are looking for `science-based' solutions? Have they been consulted (i.e.
user needs assessment done) and if so what were the outcomes? Have the managers had information
presentedto themby individuals or institutions involvedbefore andhave the managerstaken action? There
 is no clear mechanism presentedon how the scientific informationwill result inmanagement actions.
Please see the response to comment #3 above. The ability to link the scientific findings to management
 andfacilitate its uptake is both a key objective and a major challenge of the Targeted Research Project.
 The Project teant recognizes the strategic importance of promoting these linkages in: (i) the
prioritization of    research questions,       (ii) formulation    of  hypotheses in ways that suggest
 management-relevant outcomes if the hypothesis is accepted or rejected, (iii) testing of research tools
 (such as remote sensing,jish larval dispersal markers, and.field assays to diagnose stress in indicators
 species and diseases in corals), (iv) cost effective reef restoration techniques and (v) designing decision
 support tools to enhance management. All of these are core elements of the research. Managers were in
.fact consulted duringproject preparation (during the Block A and later in the Block B, although a,formal
 assessment of managers' needs was not undertaken) in professional meetings and side events at
 international conferences dedicated to this purpose, through I C H , ICRAN, and GEFproject teams, with
 NGOs such as The Nature Conservancy and WWF-all of whom have identijied a demandfor knowledge
 and products antong their constituents of the kind the TR is being designed to generate. An example is
 the growing interest among MPA managers in the notion of connectivity within and between ecosystems,
 its importance to maintaining the integrity of marine ecosystems and their supply of goods and services
 (e.g., in the context offisheries recruitment and recovery of damaged coral reefs), how to measure it in
 the areas they manage, and how to use this information to design effective and resilient networks of
 MPAs. Without the science to explore thisproperly, estimates of connectivity between reeji will continue
 to be based onflawed concepts of surface currents,passive transport, and dispersalpotentialfor one or
 two species. The result will be a continuation of the trial and error approach to management-a       costly
 approach given what is at stake,for coral reeji and those who depend on them.

 To help managers ask the right questions of scientists and to sharpen thefocus of the TR on management
 issues of local importance as well as global interest, the Centers of Excellence will need toplay a strong
 role in bridging these two communities. The COEs canfacilitate a combination of adaptive management


                                                     - 93 -

and applied science by maintaining a dialogue between local managers and scientists in the region who
are engaged in the TR. Similarly, creating opportunitiesfor periodic consultation and outreach to local
communities and incoporation of traditional knowledge in theprocess of addressing unknowns will be a
responsibility of the COEs. They will be represented on the Capacity Building Sub-committee along with
other members of the Steering Committee, to help strengthen the linkages between science and
management and ensure that local benefits are generatedfrom the research undertaken. In a recent site
visit to one of the proposed Centers of Excellence, the local representative immediately recognized the
value of this approach. Upon learning of the plans for this proposal, he stated: "We need to stop
shouting at one another based on emotion and rhetoric.         We need answers from helpful, adaptive,
science". NGO collaborators in the TR, such as TNC and their afJiates, also have a strategic role to
play in ensuring that the research .findings are interpreted for various stakeholders and channelled
effectively to thesegroups. Through their "Toolkitfor MPA Managers" which aims to include measures
to assess coral bleaching and guidance on how to minimize MPA vulnerability, and to enhance recovery
.from these and other disturbance events (including pollution, disease and blast fishing) the TR Project
will have a ready conduit for the uptake of relevant findings from the various working groups as they
emerge.

7.       Management implicationsloutcomes are weak in all the working groups and need to be
 strengthened.
 (Please see technical annexes, as well as a separatefile on project website: http://www.gefcoral.org that
discusses management          implications.)Linkages  to other working groups are weak, including
 datdinformation and methodology transfer. Further information has to be presented to really demonstrate
the mechanism for the transfer o f the informationto the managersandits subsequentuse.
See discussion of CoE's role in information dissemination to managers; see Brief section E.4.1 and
section D.5 regardingpolicy dialogue between Bank and Clients).
 Section D, project rationale, does not mention the underlying causes. The management options should
 surely have to consider these before any "new" management strategies are put into place.
 Please see the response to point 6 above. Examples of more specific management outcomes include the
following (in this case,from the Connectivity Working Group):

     a. Development of novel chemical methodsfor tracing sources of larvalfish
     b. Development of novel genetic methodsfor tracing sources of larvalfish and corals
     c. Use of data on recruitment variation in a novel way to test the realism andprecision of models of
         dispersal oJfish and lobster
     d. Use these novel approaches to provide estimates of connectivity in Mesoamericafor a) one
         breeding population of Nassau grouper, b) one or two representative reeffish species, c) one or
         two species of coral, and d) spiny lobster.
     e. Application of these same methods (niodi$ed as necessary depending on discoveries in
         Mesoamerica) to .fish populations in the Philippines and coral and fish populations in Palau.
         (Thus capturing instances of connectivity in a continental Caribbean, a continental Pacific, and
         a mid-Pacijk location.)
      f. Educatinggraduatestudents in eachregion in thecourseof carlying out the research.
     g. Engaging the management and NGO communities as participants in the research, as a
         deliberate way to enhance understanding of theproblem, and its importancefor management.
     h. Development, through a series of worhhops, a clear appreciation in each local region of how
         the data obtained can be used to make better management decisions than would otherwise be
         possible.


 8.      We encourage the projectto incorporatethe active involvementoflocal communities from the


                                                    - 94 -

beginning. The approachtaken at eachof the sites appears to be very top down. We have seenlittle or no
mention o f the local communities that do manage and rely on many o f the coral reefs o f the world. Insome
cases, we hope that they have people who have already been doing work on the ground as otherwise it is
going to be very hard for the scientists and managers to walk in and do the work (e.g. in Papua New
Guinea). Therefore, an initial stakeholder analysis would help in identifying and engaging the local
communities.
The STAP review raises a validpoint and one the Project Team has been giving more thought to as the
role of the COEs as interlocutors with local stakeholders and as centers for outreach and capacity
building has become better defined, The centers in Puerto Morelos, Bolinao, Zanzibar and The Great
Barrier Reef will not only sene as regional resource centers, but asfocal points for engagement of the
local community in research        that will have an impact on their livelihoods and security.        Rapid
ecological appraisal promoted by NGOs such as TNC and partners for use by local communities, could
provide a modus operandi as wellfor local community involvement in some aspects of the research. This
would also be an opportunity for researchers to solicit local and traditional knowledge to help frame
research questions in ways that are more meaningfir1 to local groups. Thus, the.findings could also be
more readily interpreted and disseminated.
A workshop in Mexico being planned for early in Year by the Connectivity WG will bring together
individuals from management agencies already committed to the Synoptic Monitoring Program (SMP)
designed to monitor the health of the Mesoamerican Barrier ReeJ under the MBRSproject, to teach them
how to monitor recruitment of fish, corals and lobster, and encourage the inclusion of these
measurements within their SMP activities, while also teaching them how recruitment information is
needed.for study of connectivity, and how it can be used to inform management actions. This may be the
first of an on-going dialogue with the management community that will build their capacity, while
assisting in the data collection requiredfor aspects of the connectivity project. This and other vehicles
.for active participation of local communities and managers will be explored during the early stages of
project implementation. (See Brief Section E.4.1)


9.       We are concerned about the participationof developingcountry scientists and the funds that
will be allocated to them. It would be helpful to indicate what is the ratio of experts from developing
countries participating in the research, and what i s the proportion o f funds being allocated to developing
 countries.
From the outset it has been a fundamental principle of the TR Project that support .for developing
 county participation in the project would be a high priority. Working Groups agreed that support for
 students and post-docs would be earmarked for individuals from the regions in which they would be
 working, (i.e. Mesoamerica, Eastern Africa, South East Asia and Melanesia), not from developed
 countries, and that, wherever possible, these students would be enrolled in instihtions in the region,
 even if they were seconded to developed country labs for portions of their education. Thefact that
 Working Group membership is skewed toward developed country representation is a simple refection of
 the current skills distribution in the areas of investigation targeted by the project (ice complete list of
 Working Group members onproject website: http://www.gefcoral.org).I n spite of this and the limitations
 imposed by the budget on the total number of members in each group, the Working Group Chairs have
 done an excellent job of having developing country scientists represented within their groups. The
 currentpercentage of developing country scientists involved in the WGs are asfollows:

             Bleaching and Local Ecological Responses WG:                       30%

             Connectivity and Large-scale Ecological Processes WG:              20%

             Disease WG:                                                        37%


                                                    - 95 -

              Restoration and Reinediation WG:                                   27%

              Remote Sensing WG:                                                 25%
              Modelling and Decision Support WG:                                 435%


 Wefully expect to see thesepercentages increase as theproject movesforward.         As a case in point, with
respect    to   the  Connectivity    Working    Group, faculty       ,from    CINVESTAV-Merida,     and    at
ECOSUR-Chetumal (Mexico) will be added toparticipation in the research, as well as additionalfaculty
.from the node at UNAM.

 10.     There appears to be a lack of post-intervention follow-up and needs to be stated clearly. In
terms o f GEF global environment impacts, it is important to identify follow-up strategies. It seems to be
missing entirely in the documentation. Further clarification is needed on what entities would follow up
after the interventions? How would the follow-up occur?
 The TRproject is being designed as a 15year program, thusfollow up after the initialjveyear phase is
being anticipated in a second and third phase. This will depend on the achievement of outputs and
progress against pevformance indicators in the initial phase. GEFfunds would represent a substantially
smaller percentage of the overall project cost, as new partners are recruited and the research
 infrastructure (human and physical) becomes mainstreamed into institutions supported by the TR. (See
sections on statainability and replication in the Executive Summary and in Section F of the Project
BrieJ).

 11.      Some of the assumptions being made need clarification and testing, (e.g. disease and the
 interactionwith water quality is too simplifiedand generalised) and the appropriate Working Groups need
 to add that this will be tested. We feel that the project should point out the challenges and also the
 assumptions that apply to the replicability andtransferability o f the results.
 The Working Groups are keenly aware of the assumptions involved in this adaptive research model, and
 of the associatedproblems and trade-offs.    The tables that accompany each of the technical annexes have
 attempted to organize the information for each of the priority hypotheses so that the latter could be
 evaluated along with the assumptions, and then ranked for each Working Group.                The ScientiJc
 Committee would review these with the help of the Synthesis Coninzittee to determine which ones should
 be approved and how they should be ranked in order of importance. Replicability of investigations (and
 their inherent assumptions) is dependent upon their place within the investigative hierarchy and whether
 the results should be interpreted (i.e. molecular or physiological responses to stress) globally or in a
 more local context, if they prove to vary considerably over space (e.g. different ecological responses of
populations in diferent regions). Communications between the Working Groups and their chairs, and
 the SynthesisPanel's oversight and synthesis of thefindings will kelp determine the transfirability of the
 results.


 12.      The summaryof the proposedwork by some of the WorkingGroups (see below) is excellent,
 but some others need to be strengthened both in terms of the methodologyand perhaps the experts
 involved. Inparticular we would like to highlight our concerns about Modelling and Decision Support
 Working Group and within that "Field validation".      Fieldvalidation is a critical aspect and needs to be
 considered in more detail than in the cursory manner presented here with (both within the main project
 proposal and in the Technical Annex 1). There is no indication as to how field validation will be
 undertaken, andno consideration o f temporal andspatial scales etc.
  We accept this comment, and are working to see that methods and approaches are standardized and
 coordinated between working groups. As a case in point, an upcomingjoint meeting in the Philippines in


                                                    - 96 -

October--as part of the on-going Block B phase--will examine the issue of recruitment on coral reefs, and
the ways and means in which workinggroups can coordinate their methods--to ensure that consideration
is being given to variation in temporal and spatial scales, that common assumptions are carefully
examined, and that there will be cooperation to help validate proposed models. As for additional
experts, we feel conjident that the Working Group chairs have carefully considered the caliber of
researchers involved. However, we welcome any suggestions of the STAP tofonvard to the Chairs.for
consideration.


More specific comments on the Working Groups
Our comments are based on the Annexes in the main document but we have also checked in the six
Scientific Annexes provided.        The quality o f the documentations in these annexes seems to vary
considerably. Again a strong scientific leadership for the whole project couldhelp overcome this.

 We believe that this leadership exists within the capability of the Synthesis Panel membership, and this
will also be addressed in considering the role of the coordinators within the Project Executing Agency.

Some comments across the working groups are:
a)         Scaling issues: Some o f the information (e.g. IPCC scenarios) are available mostly at the global
level, and yet the coral abundance, reef biodiversity etc is a t local and at best regional level. How would
these be incorporated into the models?
Reconciling the variations in scale between organisms, communities, their habitats and ecosystems is a
.fundamental challenge that is afoundation of this targeted research. Theseare questions that have been
explored in the literature since the mid-l990s, and are being examined as part of this project. One such
approach looks to rule-based modelling that explores diferences in scales as a consequence of the
agents       that      run    independently       and     then      interact   within     the      system       (
http://www.ncoremiami.org/WaterModel.htm ). While the appropriate modelling approaches are being
considered, the working groups have prioritized many of the investigations with differences of scale in
 mind. This is clear within technical annex #1,where the working group has prioritized its investigations
 to deal with the molecular mechanisms of coral reef bleaching as thepre-requisite to ecological studies
 that will examine its cause and effect under variousforms of stress.

b)         Some o f the modelling work mentioned invarious work inthe appendix is hard to do on land let
 alone an "open" system as that o f coral reefs. We are not convincedthat enough thought has been given to
 this critical section inallthe working groups.
 Comment noted. There is value in each of the working groups developing need-specific models in
 conducting (or evaluating) targeted research within a given working group 's activities that may or may
 not contribute to the larger issue of decision support andfield validationfor a larger expert system. This
 is somewhat of a separate issue,from the design and development of a larger decision support tool. I n
 addition to any MDS tool developed by the MDSWG, the Synthesis Panel will have a role in decision
 supportfor the overall project. However, we accept the comment that discussion of specflc modelling
 within each of the working groups, and their relationships and inputs to a decision support model can be
 clarified within theproject Brief (seeBrief section E.3).

 c)        Only $3.0 million are allocated to "linking scientific knowledge to management", the same amount
 that is allocated to project administration. Ifthe former is an important goal o f the project, is this level o f
 fundingproportionatelyadequate? Perhapsthe team mightwish to revisitthis fundingallocation.
 We appreciate the need to allocate resources in a way that is consistent with our assessment of the
 importance of the various components. While $I1Million in GEF ($20 Million overall) may seem like a
 lot to allocate to Targeted Research, the scope of this effort is quite large relative to the available


                                                      - 97 -

resource envelope. Because of the Project's complexity, Project administration and management will be
crucial to ensuring that technical components are well executed. The challenge will be to increase the
envelope for these technical elements, through additional co-financing, not to reduce the overall
allocation for administration. The bulk of project administrative costs will be covered through
co$nancing.

Specific comments on each of the working groups proposed w o r k

1.         Bleaching Working Group: has some weaknesses. Some parts of the summary of the proposed
work are excellent, however, other portions o f the summary are less thorough, and give the impression that
little or no work has been done inthe three activities listedinthe first paragraph. We can only assume that
since some o f the processes involved, eg. changes in physiology to individuals reef systems, globe, are
long-term that data needed on this would be somehow (through individuals and institutions involved?) be
incorporated inthe project.
This comment appears to be restricted to the sumntarypresented within the Draji Briefl as opposed to the
more detailed presentation within the technical annex for this working group, which is much more
Comprehensive in the description of priorities and work programs. The above comments will be taken
into consideration duringJina1 approval of the document; however, it should be noted that the Forking
Group has made signijkant progress in prioritising the relevant hypotheses for each of the three
activities, although it cannot be expected that these would all be addressed in comprehensive detail in the
pilot work during the Block B phase.             This Working Group has made signijlcant progress in
understanding the physiology to date, but as stated in the response in a), above, it has prioritized its
investigations to deal with the molecular mechanisms of coral reef bleachingfirst, as thepre-requisite to
ecological studies that will examine its cause and efect under variousforms of stress as theproject gets
underway.

2.        DiseasesWorking Group: overall good.

3.        Connectivity -various issuesneed to be improved, such as:
The connectivity work in Mesoamerica has had a healthy head-start due to prior research there by a
sign@cant percentage of workinggroup members (Sale, Cowen, Steneck and Butler, and the inclusion of
experts like Thorrold, Planes and Jones). Someparts of the research are straigh[forward and will work;
others are more risky. For example, the studies of coral larval dispersal may hit dificulties not ,yet
foreseen. The modelling goal usingfish recruitment and lobster recruitment as data to test the accuracy
of dispersal models should work, and if we can build good dispersal models. these can then derive
connectivity estimates. Otolith chemistiy will either be superb or disappointing, but if the latter, we will
know that investing in it is not warranted. The same goesfor assignment tests using genetic data. The
proposal is structured on the understanding that there will be mid-course corrections, as is the case in
any research project worthfunding. The track-records of the working group members as leaders within
theirfields should instil more confidence than is apparent by the STAP comments.

a.        It is not clear as to what techniqueswill have to be developed andwhich ones will be further
expanded.
 There is considerable technique development in: otolith chemistry finding ways to label otoliths and,
                                                                         -
perhaps, using otolith cores as signals of natal locations, coral genetics -finding markers that show
relationships in time and space, coral ecology - developing immunogenetic probes to identlfi planula
larvae, physical oceanography       - using neutral density beads to mimic dispersing eggs or planulae. Most
of the work, however, uses known methodology in novel ways or in novel combinations, such as a) the
suite of activities planned at a spawning aggregation to yield data on larval dispersal and subsequent
locations of the aggregated adults, b) using otolith cores as signals.for natal locationsfor.fish recruiting


                                                      - 98 -

across a region, c) using genetic assignment tests to assign larvalfish or coral recruits to spec@ source
populations, d) using data on recruitment patterns of` fish or lobster as a way of testing the
accuracy/realisnt of models of dispersal (much modelling seems to be done without any efort to see ifthe
model is realistic, and dispersal is a complicated process).         In many instances it is the particular
combination of approaches, frequently .from dgferent disciplines, that is novel, and potentially able to
actually measure connectivity.

b.       How long would it take to do develop the tools to identify and monitor stress and would these
techniques be easily andquickly transferable to the other regions?
Connectivity is an intrinsic property of open ecological systems. I t occurs in the presence and in the
absenceof stresses on those systems (it may or may not be modiJed by the stress). We need to learn how
to measure it, because knowledge of connectivity is essential if we are to manage these systems in any
spatially-explicit way -such as through creation of networks of no-take zones.

c.       Is any o f the information transferable to other regions and coral reefs with different history,
biodiversity andset of stresses?
Yes, all of it. But with the usual caveat: one measurement yields one result - it gives us a clue about
scale, but we won't appreciate the variance within that scale of response until more results are obtained.
Ifwe discover that larval Nassau grouperfrom the Glovers Reef spawning aggregution site, spawned in
February 2006 end up on ree@ stretching front Turnefle to northern Belize, and on Chinchorro,
Cozunzel, and Key West, that tells us a lot about dispersal of that species that year in that site. We will
not even know ifthat was an exceptional year (or an exceptional site), but we will know a lot more about
it than we do now. At present we know a) that a proportion (small or large - not really sure) of one
small damseFsh, spawned at Lizard Island, settled to sites at Lizard Island one year (retained on scale
of 5kn1),and that larvae of one small wrasse recruiting to sites on St. Croix USVI were Ipredominantly'
produced on that island rather than elsewhere in the Caribbean (retained on scale of 20-5Okm).
d.        Are the researchers concentrating on "keystone species" so they may obtain a good understanding
o f the critical processes?
No. Reasons for species selection vary: Nassau grouper - typical of aggregating spawners, has
functioning site near researchfacility at Glover's Reef: there is on-going research on this population, it
 is a charismatic species, and Belize has recently protected all spawning aggregation sites. Therefore,
this is a good opportunity to give them data about how one sitefunctions. Bicolor damselfish - typical
 non-aggregating spawner, easily recognized so field collections can be done by local stakeholders,
common and widely distributed.           Spiny lobster - economically most valuable Jishery species in
 Caribbean, has very long larval life relative to ,fish being used, or to corals. Montastrea -largest
 reef- building genus within the Caribbean; existing genetic and juvenile work in progress, widely
 distributed, abundant. We arefocusing heavily onfish because the chance of success seems greater with
 them (more effort has already been expended to measurefish connectivity than is casefor other reef
 species), and because they are economically important (to both.fisheries and tourism).

 e.       I s there a logic for choosingto concentrate on lobsters, groupers and snappers?
 See above.


 4.       Restoration Working Group: well presented summary o f the intended work, although again it
 would have been useful to say if pilot or other work suggests that the experimental work being suggested
 can be done over the spatio-temporal scale o f the project.
 5.       Remote sensing Working Group: this seems to promise a great deal and we are not sure if it can
 deliver. Some o f the techniques are a challenge inland-based systems and we are not convinced that these


                                                      - 99 -

    can be done in the coral reef systems. Further information on how the project team plans to address this
    would be useful.
    The reviewers' point out that some of the objectives for this WG are challenging and diflcult to
    accomplish on land. They request clarification but do not specifi which issues they consider to be
    particularly dijjficult. Therefore, this responsefocuses on those generic remote sensing questions which
    are applicable to terrestrial systems.

    1.Firstly, it is important to point out that the RSWG has met on four occasions and has rigorously
    reviewed the feasibility of all projects under consideration. Some of these were considered too
    challenging given the immaturity of the science and limited resources available. These issues will be
    revisited before the secondphase of the study.

    2. One of the reasons the RSWG is able to propose a great deal of research activity is that the RSWG
,   have acquired considerable co-funding (note that NOAA is a significant co-fimder of our effort as per
    STAP comment #5 above).

    3. Spectral unniixing: Theprocess of spectral tinmixing is challenging in any environment and especially
    so through an aquatic medium. Thereare two keyproblems:
    a)      Determining the depth of the overlying water column without,jielddata. The RSWG have already
    solved thisproblem using mathematics and optimisation routines (Hedley & Mumby 2003). Essentially, (f
    the spectral imagely has more spectral bands than there are substratum classes on the seabed, then a
    series of simultaneous equations can be solved to estimate depth. Spec$cally, the method inserts a
    potential depth value and determines whether the equations are compatible after Gaussian elimination.
    The process is repeated with varying depth estimates until equations become compatible. giving the
    correct estimate of depth. The required inputs are (0 the d@se attenuation coeflcient of each spectral
    band and (io the end member spectra of individual substratum types or a combination thereoj Both can
    be determinedfrom the imagery with minima1,field work (approx. one day of ground survey).
    b)      Applying a linear unmixing method. Once the influence of depth is removed by adjusting
    reflectance values to uniform depth (e.g. the swface), an unmixing algorithm must be applied. Most
    methods make the simpli3ing assumption that spectra mix in a linear relationship to the composition of
    substrata in the pixel. The RSWG undertookpilot work during the Block B phase and tested whether a
    linear unmixing method will represent coral and algal mixtures. Experiments were carried out at Heron
    Island (Australia) and Palau. Our results show that linear mixture models are a .fair representation of
    coral/algal mixes with accuracies upward of 70% (considered high for such analyses in terrestrial
    systems). The paper is accepted.for publication in the journal Coral Reefs (Hedley et al. 2003). The
    RSWG aims to improve on these accuracies bv developing non-linear mixture models, better able to deal
    with the irregular shapes of corals. To do this, the WG members are developing a new.form of radiative
    transfer modelling that uses radiosity methods. Radiosity methods were developed by the computer
    graphics industry to give stunningly realistic representations of sunlight in animations (e.g. the movie,
     "Shrek'y. The RSWG is developing these methodsfurther to resolve how light interacts with corals and
    algae. The net outcome of this research is that managers will be able to monitor the health (coral and
     algal cover) of their reefs using airborne remote sensing andfuture satellite sensors which will have an
    adequate number of spectral bands. Thisprovides greater spatial representation of the state of reefs and
     releases staff from the extremely time-consuming process of monitoring reefs in situ.

     4. The detection of change in reef systems

     Change detection is a major area of remote sensing research both in terrestrial and aquatic systems. The
    RSWG believe that we are making signijkant progress in developingpromising new methods and most


                                                       - 100-

importantly, converting the expression of remote sensing science into that used by coral reef managers.
This latter objective is vital if managers are to make greater use of remote sensing (and in so doing,
undertake management more cost-effectively). For example, the standardpresentation of accuracy for a
habitat map involves confusion matrices. However, managers are concerned with achieving a certain
statistical power in detecting say a 10% change in coral cover over the course of a year usingAnalysis of
Variance. We are bridging this gulf in statistical methods by undertaking ANOVA power-analysis with
remotely sensed data (e.g. Mumby et al. 2001).

Many of the methods the RSWG is developingfor change detection rely on changes in the texture and
local autocorrelation in reflectance. These methods have already been developed (LeDrew et al. 2000)
and there is compelling evidence that the texture varies between many reef habitats (Mumby & Edwards
2002). To investigate these questions jirther, the RSWG are using an innovative approach in which
several images are acquired in rapid succession (e.g. 2 months). Atmospheric conditions difler amongst
images just as they would if using a longer time series. However, if the RSWG makes the reasonable
assumption that the status of reefs has not changed between images, then texture of individual reef
habitats can be comparedfrom image to image. Indeed, with the.field suwe.vs planned at each study site,
the RSWG will be able to determine how depth, water turbidity, and biogeographic regions influence the
separability of reef habitats by each method.

References:

Hedley JD, Mumby PJ, Joyce KE, Phinn SR (2003) Spectral unmixing of coral reef benthos under ideal
   conditions. Coral Reefs (in press)
Hedley JD, Muniby PJ (2003) Spectral unmixing and the resolution of depth .from remotely sensed data
   of aquatic systems. Limnology h Oceanography 48: 480-488
LeDrew E, Wulder M, Holden H (2000) Change detection of satellite imageiy .for reconnaissance of
   stressed tropical corals. IGARSS 2000, Hawaii CD-ROM, IEEE International Geoscience and Remote
   Sensing Society.
Muniby PJ, Edwards AJ (2002) Mapping marine environments with IKONOS imagery: enhanced spatial
   resolution does deliver greater thematic accuracy. Remote Sensing of Environment 82: 248-257
Mumby PJ, Chisholm J M , Hedley JH, Clark CD, Jaubert J (2001) A bird's-eye view of the health of
     coral reef. Nature 413 (6852): 36-36


6.       Modelling and Decision support Working Group: this is the weakest WG in terms o f the
information presented. We are not sure if there is sufficient data available to develop an expert system.
What are some o f the challenges and can they be overcome? How will field validation be done? This is not
trivial and should be clarified (see point 13 above). 12 major sets o f models are beingproposed and it is
not clear how they will be integrated; there will be challenges in terms o f information available and their
spatio-temporal scales and yet this does not come across inthe summary presented. We are not convinced
that the researchwill lead to definite management implications
Comments noted, and will be taken into consideration.

The concern about whether or not our work will improve management also indicates that we have not
gotten a simple point across: A well-built GIs of a reef and adjacent land almost always improves
management decision-making. Where it does not, it is usually because it was built and then never used
effectively by managers and policy-makers, or there is afailure in political will. Any good GIs of such a
system combined with appropriate documentation also establishes a detailed case histoiy of trials,
successes andfailures in managing a coral reeJ There is no more useful guidancefor improving coral
reef management globally than providing access to well understood case histories. This is the reason we


                                                   - 101 -

are using such an au-uroach in working with the initiallv limited number of sites within thefour regions
(and Centers of Excellence), and in coordinating the work of the various working grouus. The aim of the
MDS is to build good, easily-used GIs systems, and then to carefully add to their capabilities by
augmenting them with other decision support capabilities (including simulation), Jiltered via validation.
As long as we are improving GIsfor reef management purposes, then we are extremely likely to be
improving reef management.

Some minor points on the mainproject proposal

0   Section B, page 2 onwards. It would be worth mentioning climate variability as well as climate change
    is being considered; is "unprecedented" bleaching and not "unprecedented mortality" on page 3. The
    section does need to mentionthe temporal aspects andthe potential time lags that mightbe o f relevance
    to the coral reef systems
   Comments noted.

0   Would the TR really leadto a "new generation o f trained scientists" (page 20) in5 years?
   The team believes that the case has been clearly made within the Brief that this is not the intent. A
    "new generation of trained scientists" is intended to take place over the life of the threephases (15
   years) of theproject.




                                                  -102  -

                Annex 13 Hardwiring Links between Science and Management:
                              Activities Matrix and Project Conceptual Model
      WORLD: Coral Reef Targeted Research and Capacity Building for Management

                      Matrix of Activities: Hardwiring Linksbetween Scienceand Management

                        Year 1                  Year 2               Year 3                  Year 4               Year 5
 Working         Managers represented    Managersrepresented   Managers              anagers                  Aanagers
 Groups         within WGs/ongoing       within WGs/ongoing    representedwithin     presented within         epresented within
                dialogue with end user   dialoguewith end-     WGslongoing              Gs//ongoing           MGs//ongoing
                 reference group         user reference group  dialogue with end     aloguewith end           lialoguewith end
                                                               user reference        ier reference group      iser reference
                 Outreachto local        Outreachto local      group                                          P U P
                communities and          communities and                             utreachto local
                 managers during         managersvia           Outreach to local     m"ities and              Iutreachto local
                 trainingworkshops       training workshops    communities and          anagers during        nmmunities and
                                         (e.g. in useof new    managers during          lining workshops      nanagersduring
                 Prototypeof Model       infoand tools to      training workshops                             rainingworkshops
                for DecisionSupport      enhance coral reef    (e.g., dissemination
                Tool designed with       monitoringthrough     of new diagnostic                              Dtotype DSmodel
                 managemenu              e.g.,GCRMN and        and spatialplanning                            rat least 2 COEs
                 decision-maker          Reefcheck)            tools as they come                             Iandrunning
                 community                                     on line)
 Synthesis Panel Annual Meetings         Annual Meetings       lulti-disciplinary       nnual Meetings        ajor all-project
 (includes coral includingdedicated      including dedicated   ymposium hosted at       cludingdedicated      imposiumat the en1
 reef managers) sessionwith              session with          ie Bank with NAS,        ?ssionwith            'Phase I,to include
                 ManagerslPolicy-make    Managers/Policy-ma    IGOs, and specialists anagers/Policy-makc      IGEFcoralreefani
                                         kers ($75K)           Ipublicpolicy,law        '($75K)               dated LME projects
                                                               conomics, and social
                 Peer Reviewof annual    PeerReview            evelopment ($40K +    eer Review               eer Review
                 work-programs by peer                         dditionalco-financing
                 review panel,which                            `om partners)
                 includesmanagers
                                                               leer Review                                    roductionof Policy
                 Production&                                                                                  riefs based on WG
                 dissemination of                                                                             indingsfor
                 State-of-Knowledge                                                                           isseminationto
                 reportsfor each WG.                                                                          ianagers and
                 includingPrimer on                                                                           olicy-makers
                 Restorationand
                 Remediationof
                 DamagedReefsand
                 Remote Sensing
                 Applications for Coral
                 Reefmanagementto
                 lserve as Baselines.
 Centers of      loutreach activitiesto   RegionalWorkshop     htreach activities to    lutreachactivities to RegionalWorkshol
 Excellence      engage local            for Decision-Makers   ingage local             ngage local           for
                 managers/decision-ma    ($75K per COE)        nanagers/decision-ma ianagers/decision-mi Decision-Makers
                 kers ($10Keach year)    Outreachactivities    :ers ($10K eachyear) ers ($10K eachyear:       ($75K per COE)
                                         to local
                                          managers/decision-
                                          makers ($1OK each
                                          year)
 Other            Feedingscientific       Presentationon        Linking scientific       Sessionfor
                 resultsto MPA            science-based         resultsto coral reef     Managers and
 Linksto          Knowledge Networks      managementatthe       Targeted Learning        PolicyMakers at the
 ongoing          (established by TNC,    International         Componentof GEF          11th International
 programslike    WWF, WCS & CI)           Tropical Marine       IW:LEARN Project         Coral Reef
 GCRMNand        throughout Project       Ecosystems            ($175K)for coral         Symposium (Ft.
 Reefcheck        Life.                   Management            reef managers            Lauderdale, FL)
~
                                          Symposium
I                I                        (ITMEMSJ)




                                                             -103 -

IndicatesManagement interface




                               - 104 -

MAP SECTION


