OFFICIAL   1 LOAN NUMBER 1782 DO
DOCTi    S
Loan Agreement
(Urgent Import Requirements for
Hurricane Reconstruction Program)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1782 DO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1980, between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (herein  ter call4 the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Account" means the account established in
the name of the Borrower by the Central Bank pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(b) "Central Bank" means Banco Central de la Repfblica
Dominicana; and
(c) "Public Sector Entity" means any administrative subdivi-
sion or agency of the Borrower and any corporation or juridical
entity owned by, or under the control of, the Borrower or any such
administrative subdivision or agency. For purposes of this defini-
tion, the term "control" shall mean, with respect to any Public
Sector Entity, the right to receive 50% or more of any distribu-
tion of the earnings or capital of such Entity, the right to cast
50% or more of the votes capable of being cast at any meeting of
holders of the shares or other ownership interests of such Entity
or the right to appoint the principal official or directing board
of such Entity.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement for expenditures made in respect of the reasonable
cost of imported goods for the Project listed in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such.Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, and which shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) Except as otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank and for purposes of paragraph (a) above, it is hereby agreed
that final consumption goods shall not be considered among the
goods listed in the Schedule referred to in such paragraph.
(c) The Borrower shall entrust the Central Bank with respon-
sibility for the coordination and collection of relevant documen-
tation, and the preparation of withdrawal applications, under the
Loan, and shall cause the Central Bank to fulfill such responsi-
bility as provided in this Agreement.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(i) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or
for goods or services supplied from, the territory
of the Borrower;
(ii) expenditures for goods imported into the Borrower's
territory before October 1, 1979;
(iii) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof;
(iv) expenditures for goods procured under invoices for
less than $2,000 equivalent; and


﻿-3-
(v) expenditures for goods in respect of which there is
no satisfactory evidence of: (A) importation into
the country; or (B) the purchase contract price and
payment to the suppliers, the foregoing to be
proved by appropriate documentation, such as bills
of lading, receipts and customs warrants; or (C)
the release by Central Bank of the foreign currency
relating to the importation ef such goods.
(e) If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item financed, or intended to be financed, from
the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Bank may, unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Bank and without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under this Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
goods imported under the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the following provisions:
(a) contracts for goods costing more than the equivalent of
$100,000 to be imported by, or on account or for the benefit of,
a Public Sector Entity shall be awarded only after solicitation of
not less than three price quotations from suppliers in member
countries of the Bank and Switzerland; and
(b). contracts for imported goods other than those referred
to in (a) above shall be awarded through normal trade channels on
the basis of the usual procurement procedures of the purchaser of
such goods.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Bank shall establish, The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later d&te.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the pincipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement or cause the Project to
be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing,
the Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary or
convenient to facilitate the timely importation of goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Central
Bank to open a Project Account in the name of the Borrower, and to
credit to the Project Account, upon each withdrawal from the Loan
Account, the equivalent in Dominican pesos of the currency or
currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account (such equivalent to be
determined at the exchange rates prevailing as of the respective
dates of such withdrawals).
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, withdrawals
shall be made from the Project Account only to finance the local
currency costs of development or reconstruction projects.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any


﻿-5-
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall cause the Central
Bank to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project, to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall cause the Central Bank to enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to examine any relevant
records and documents in connection with the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan; and (iii) shall furnish and cause the
Central Bank to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods financed out of such proceeds.
(b)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause the Central Bank to prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the carrying out of the
Project, its cost and the benefits i4erived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, the Bank and the Central
Bank of their respective obligationzs under the Loan Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,


﻿-6-
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project and
of the Project Account.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank to: (i)
have the Project Account for each fiscal year of the Borrower
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by the competent auditing body of the
Borrower's Secretariat of Finance; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the account referred to in (i) above and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date L                   , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Secti  12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Governor of the Central Bank is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco Central de la Repfblica Dominicana
Calle Pedro Henrfquez Urefia
Santo Domingo, D.N.
Dominican Republic
Cable address:                      Telex:
BANCENTRAL                         3460052 (ITT)
Santo Domingo                      3464186 (RCA)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreemenc to be signed in their respective names in Santo Domingo,
DN, Dominican Republic, and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By C
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   tRegional Vice President
Latin   erica and the Caribbean


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Imported Goods Eligible for Financing
under the Loan
The list below sets forth the Categories of imported items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan:
Category
(1) Chemical products
(2) Manufactures of plastic
and rubber, natural and
synthetic
(3) Wood and wood products
(4) Manufactures of stone,
gypsum, ceramics and
glass
(5) Base metals and manu-
factures of base metals
(6) Machinery and equipment
including electrical
(7) Transportation (other than
automobiles) and haulage
equipment


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of: (a) a program of importation into
the Dominican Republic of foreign goods as are listed in Schedule
1 to this Agreement for use in the necessary works of reconstruc-
tion and repair of the productive facilities damaged by the
hurricanes David and Frederick of August 31, 1979 and September 5,
1979, respectively; and (b) a program of development and recon-
struction projects for the financing of the local costs of which
funds from the Project Account will be used.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1984
through   September 1, 1996                  960,000
On March 1, 1997                                1,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                        1.40%
before maturity
More than three years but                        2.80%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          5.15%
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                       7.00%
not more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                          7.95%
before maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this _    _   day of       , 199is.
FOR SECRETARY


