            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                     International Development Association
                                                                                      86876
                       International Finance Corportation
                   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                             EDS97-224
                                                                                           June 16, 1997


Board Meeting of June 17,1997
Statement by Jan Piercy

                       MAURITANIA- Country Assistance Strategy
                                           and
                       Rainfed Natural Resource Management Project

1.     We thank Bank staff for a straightforward assessment of Mauritania's development
experience and prospects, and we commend the Mauritanian authorities for their solid efforts
at economic stabilization and adjustment.

2.      This CAS clearly makes the point that Mauritania's recent growth rates are inadequate
to make a serious dent in poverty until well into the next century. We commend the CAS for its
focus on strengthening the private sector's role in achieving increased growth. This will
require improvements in economic governance: better management of public investment, a
transparent regulatory environment, an independent judiciary, and a more accountable and
efficient public sector.

3.      Given the GIRM' s consistent track record on economic reforms, the CAS indicates that
reforms already undertaken are unlikely to be reversed. It also notes that the next phase of
reform will be more complex and difficult to adopt and implement, as it would have to take
into account the social segmentation that still exists. Could staff comment on the nature of the
social segmentation and steps that are being taken in this CAS to address this issue?

4.     We commend the Bank's plans for lending to finance comprehensive tax and tariff
reform. Mauritania, along with much of Africa, remains overly dependent on trade-based taxes
that impede its integration into the global economy.

5.      With over half of its population already in urban areas, Mauritania needs to address the
incentives driving its high rate of urbanization. We support the emphasis this CAS places on
rural development and the alleviation of rural poverty.

6.      A vibrant informal sector can contribute to economic development if microenterprises
are able to grow and have both the capacity and the incentive to cross over into the formal
sector. However, the fact that Mauritania's informal sector is large and growing suggests that
conditions are not favorable for this kind of "graduation process." We note that the CAS does
                      . .      .
                                               2


microcredit activities and efforts to improve the policy environment will be adequate to sustain
the dynamic contribution which Mauritania's microenterprises are making to the economy.

7.     The authorities have made significant progress in the allocation of expenditure to basic
health and education. Gains in primary enrollment are impressive, and the commitment to
universal primary education laudable. Similarly, the gains in health spending and in health
indicators are impressive, but expenditure on basic health remains low as a share of GDP.

8.      We noted with interest that discussions held in the context of the CAS highlighted the
implementation difficulties resulting from insufficient consideration of cross-sectoral issues in
project design. The CAS indicates that multi-sectoral project teams will now be established to
design and implement IDA projects. This seems to be a very important lesson that should be
applied more broadly to the Bank's work. Could Bank staff please comment on their
experience in this area and the potential for broader application of lessons learned throughout
Africa and elsewhere. What is the nature of the multi-sectoral teams? Do such teams include
gender, social, and environment expertise?

9.     We commend Bank staff for integrating gender concerns into ESW and the design and
implementation of investment operations. We are also pleased that the Government of
Mauritania has created a government structure (Secretariat d'Etat a la Promotion de la Femme -
SEPF) for planning and monitoring the socioeconomic situation of women. In this context, we
suggest that the Bank include a dialogue on ways it can help to reduce the incidence of female
genital mutilation (FGM) and build on the efforts underway by public health workers to
provide education on the harmful effects of FGM.

10.    We welcome the Social and Gender Analysis (SAGA) initiative that is to be
implemented in cooperation with EDI. There is little mention of EDI elsewhere in the CAS.
Could staff comment on the role of EDI in this CAS?

11.     The proposed Rainfed and Natural Resource Management Project puts villages at the
center of land use planning, priority-setting, and investment decisions through an innovative
process of needs identification and decision-making. It uses a similar approach to the
participatory community-based natural resources management project in Mali that, in site visits
by U.S. officials, we found so successful. The Mali project, which has a comparable design, is
ahead of schedule and has produced substantial results on the ground. We hope that the
approach taken by this project will lead to similar economic benefits, environmental
improvements, and community empowerment (especially women). In addition, the project's
focus on small-scale and locally-available technologies contributes to its financial, social and
environmental sustainability. We strongly support the Bank's participatory approach in this
project and hope that it can be used in future operations.
