Report No. PIC1795
Project Name              Mauritania-Rainfed Natural Resource @ ...
Management
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Natural Resource Management
Project ID                MRPA1875
Borrower                  Government of Mauritania
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
Contact: Mr. Hamada Ould Didi, Project's
Coordinator
Phone: (222) 25 32 92; FAX: (222) 25 32 98
Nouakchott, Mauritania
Date this PID Prepared    January, 21, 1997
Project Appraisal Date    January, 25, 1997
Projected Board Date      May, 27, 1997
Country and Sector Background
Most of Mauritania's territory, over one million km2, is sand-
covered and typically Saharan. Only in the south are conditions
suitable for agriculture, stockraising and forestry. Over 85 percent of
the country's 2.3 million inhabitants (1995) live in the area south of
the Nouakchott-Tidjikja line, on less than one third of the nation's
land. Crop farming is practiced in the Senegal Valley and in the so-
called 'agro-sylvo-pastoral' area. Yields from grain cultivation have
decreased from 1965-69 to 1988-92, with the exception of paddy yields,
which have increased, thanks to irrigation in the Valley.
The livestock subsector accounts for 74 percent of agricultural
sector output and 17 percent of GNP. It is one of three key subsectors
of the Mauritanian economy, the others being fisheries and mining.
Biodiversity in terms of national parks, reserves and protected sites,
is under increasing pressure; underground water, particularly in the
oases, is over-exploited; the forest area is experiencing continuous
degradation since fuelwood consumption is estimated to be much higher
than the sustainable rate of exploitation; encroachment of the sand
dunes is moving south and towards the coastal area; and coastal fishing,
the main source of foreign exchange, is showing a decline in catch as a
result of overfishing. Socioeconomic developments have also taken their
toll, with a growing proportion of herds belonging to urban owners, who
now compete with traditional herders all year round. Faced with this
grave menace to the country's natural resources, the Government, with
donor assistance, has taken serious steps to address the ongoing problem
of degradation.
Project Objectives
The project would be the first five-year segment of a long-term
(15-20 years) natural resource management program. The long-term



objectives of the project would be to halt the environmental degradation
of the rainfed agro-pastoral part of the country while increasing the
income and improving the quality of life of the area's rural population.
In the medium term, the project would: (a) provide rural communities the
financial means to manage their resources in a way which would ensure
the sustainable growth of their production through the intensification
of agricultural, forestry and livestock activities; (b) promote
institutional building by promoting communities organization, improving
the legal framework and enhancing Government capacity, aiming at
beneficiaries' empowerment and (c) improve technical knowledge and
skills of both Government services and project beneficiaries.
Project Description
The project would have three components to be implemented in the
country's rainfed area; it would finance: (a) village investments (US$16
million) including natural resource rehabilitation (planting, erosion
control, dune fixation), productive investments (water supply, rural
buildings, small equipment), and micro-enterprises matching grants
(fattening, grain storage, retail stores); (b) effective institution
support (US$4.0 million) for agricultural services at the regional level
and below; and (c) skill development (US$1.0 million) to be carried out
either by Government entities (in the cases of research, technical
support, maps), NGOs (in the cases of training, public awareness,
village support), or other donors (in the cases of complementary
programs). Among the technologies to be used under component (a) above,
most (land and water conservation) have been tested under pilot
operations carried out by previous projects in Mauritania and elsewhere.
Project Financing
The project is estimated to cost US$23.5 million of which IDA would
finance US$16.4 million; the Government and the beneficiaries'
contribution would total US$7.1 million. Parallel financing would be
provided by the European Union in Regions (Brakna, Tagant and Trarza)
where the project would not intervene, and 56 percent of the IDA credit
amount would be allocated to village-level investments.
Project Implementation
Community-based natural resource management includes six major
activities which would be implemented as follows: (a) resource
management planning would be carried out according to the experience of
earlier projects, insuring the full involvement of all stakeholders,
especially the women and the poor; community management plans would be
reviewed at municipal and regional levels, and would become the building
blocks of further communal and regional development action plans; (b)
domestic energy would be addressed by having the Review of Policies in
Traditional Energy Sector (RPTES) setting up a fuelwood participative
production and marketing strategy to be implemented by the project's as
a pilot program; (c) as far as land tenure is concerned, the Government
would support the implementation of the 'test approach' aiming at
adjusting and mainstreaming existing unformal access practices on a
pilot basis; (d) skill development - would aim at developing the skills
of administrative and technical staff, as well as communities for which
- 2 -



topics, such as functional literacy and accounting, would be covered in
coordination with the Agricultural Services Project; and (e) project's
impact monitoring - would consist in a system covering altogether
project's long terms and development objectives, using simultaneously
quantitative indicators to be measured by techical staff, and
qualitative indicators to be estimated through beneficiaries'assessments
Project Sustainability
Sustainability can be assured through measures carried out by the
various levels of management. At the village level, investments to be
financed under the project would be implemented only after beneficiaries
are effectively organized, the rules of access to resources to be
financed have been accepted, and their operation and maintenance costs
are being raised and properly managed.    At the communal level, village
resource management plans would be consolidated into 'action plans of
communal development' for which preparation has been requested by the
recent Congress of Mauritanian Mayors. At the central and regional
levels, the project's setup would be part of the permanent rural
development and environmental administrative services. At the sub-
regional level, Mauritania would be part of the Sahelian/West African
natural resource management network currently developed to identify
obstacles and find solutions through a permanent sharing of experience
between neighboring countries.
Poverty Category
Program of Targetted Interventions. The project would benefit the
poorest segments of the rural community, especially in the rainfed area,
where the population of project beneficiaries has a significantly larger
proportion of poor people than the population as a whole (i.e., the
rural income is lower in the country's rainfed area than in the Valley,
and the income of agro-pastoralists is lower than that of the rest of
the population including civil servants, traders, and others.)
Environmental Aspects
The proposed project carries minor environmental risks for
agricultural land, while it aims at a major environmental rehabilitation
of rangeland and forestry areas. It is therefore rated 'B' in terms of
environmental impact. A gender-sensitive social assessment and an
environmental assessment have been carried out as part of project's
preparation and an appropriate mitigation plan including close
beneficiaries' involvement, coordination with other stake holders,
training and monitoring, has been agreed upon.
Program Objective Categories
Although the project would have an impact on several issues that
are among IDA's priorities in rural areas, the primary program
objective category of the project is sustainable growth of the GDP,
which the project would address by providing rural communities with
organization, skills development, relevant policies and access to
financial resources. It would also ensure that Government services are
effective by supporting the decentralized technical services and it
-3 -



would also create a consultation interface between the Government,on the
one hand, and the rural communities and elected commune leaders, on the
other. The secondary program objective is environmental improvement of
the rainfed agro-pastoral area of the country. This would be achieved
through the proper of agricultural land, forest and grazing areas and
the coordination of project's activities with other ongoing and future
operations dealing with research, extension, household energy, and bio-
diversity.
Contact Point:            John Hall, AFTA3
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)473-4999
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending January 24, 1997.
- 4 -



