Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2965-MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Rainfed Natural Resource Management Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 24, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2965-MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1997, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
Page  2
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Advance Account” means either one or any of the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; “
(b)
Association de Développement Communautaire” or “ADC” means an association 
responsible for the implementation of a Sub-project for, or on behalf of, a rural 
community in the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
“Comité de pilotage” means the committee to be established pursuant to 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the purpose of technical coordination 
of Project activities; 
(d)
“Conseil de Surveillance” means the committee established according to 
Decree No 96-026/PM of the Borrower, dated April 1, 1996, for the purpose of financial 
control and management oversight of the Project;
(e)
“ECPG” means Equipe centrale de programmation et de gestion, the central 
planning and implementation team for the Project at MDRE (as hereinafter defined), 
established according to Arrêté No 0037/MDRE, dated February 11, 1996; 
(f)
“Implementing Agency” means an association, an NGO, or other entity or 
person, as the case may be, responsible for carrying out and administering any one 
Sub-project referred to in Part A.3 of the Project on behalf of an ADC; 
(g)
“Manual of Procedures” and “MP” means the Project implementation manual 
referred to in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement and adopted pursuant to 
Section 5.01 (a), setting forth, inter alia, Project monitoring and evaluation 
indicators; procedures providing for the methodology to establish an ADC; a Project 
financial management manual and other criteria, procedures and guidelines for the 
promotion, administration, appraisal and supervision of the Project; and such term 
includes any schedules and attachments to the Manual of Procedures; 
(h)
“MDRE” means Ministère de Développement Rural et de l’Environnement”,  
the Borrower’s Ministry of Rural and Environmental Development;
(i)
“NGO” means a non-profit, non-governmental organization operating within 
Page  3
the Borrower’s territory; 
(j)
“ONS” means Office National de Statistique the office of national 
statistics data in the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning;
(k)
“Ouguiya” and "UM" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(l)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the cumulative project preparation 
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters 
dated October 19, 1995, countersigned on December 4, 1995, and October 27, 1996, 
countersigned on November 6, 1996, respectively, between the Association and the 
Borrower; 
(m)
“Regional Center” means each of the communes of Atar, Aïoun al Atrouss, 
Kiffa and Néma in the Borrower’s territory; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(o)
“Sub-project” means a specific development activity under Part A of the 
Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(p)
“Sub-project Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and an ADC for the purposes of carrying out a Sub-project.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 13,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
open and maintain for each Regional Center a sub-account (Advance 
Account) of 
the Special Account, in one or more commercial banks 
acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association 
(including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment), to 
be used by such Regional 
Center exclusively for the purposes of financing 
works, goods 
and services under the Project to be carried out in such Regional 
Center; and
(ii)
withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into each Advance 
Account an 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000, and 
thereafter replenish said 
Advance Accounts in accordance with 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(d)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Association the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn 
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
Page  4
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on August 1 and February 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
August 1 and February 1, commencing August 1, 2007 and ending February 1, 2037.  Each 
installment to, and including the installment payable on, February 1, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
Page  5
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objective of 
the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account and each 
Advance Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Association 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the 
Special Account or Advance 
Accounts was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records;
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals; and
(v)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
the Borrower has:
(a)
adopted the Manual of Procedures and has furnished evidence acceptable to 
the Association that said Manual is available in Arabic and French;
(b)
appointed a Project accountant, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and established a computerized accounting 
system for the Project, acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for planning 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre du Plan
Ministère du Plan
BP 238
NOUAKCHOTT
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Page  7
Cable address: 
Telex:
540 MTN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, DC
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s/ Abdellahi Ould Kebd 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hasan Tuluy 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works, goods and
   5,900,000
100%
services for Sub-
projects under Part A
of the Project
(2)
Works under Part B
     700,000
100%
of the Project
(3)
Goods and vehicles
     700,000
100%
(4)
Consultants' services
100%
and training:
Page  8
(a) for Part B.3 of
     700,000
the Project
(b) other
     400,000
(5)
Satellite imagery
     100,000
100%
(6)
Incremental operating
   1,800,000
100%
costs
(7)
Refunding of Project
     700,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (d)
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   2,200,000
TOTAL
  13,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "incremental operating costs" means 
the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, Project-related travel and 
supervision, and salaries for local contractual staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
It is understood that the percentages in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the provisions in Ordonnance No 80-323 
of December 10, 1980, of the laws of the Borrower, which exempt the goods and works to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit from taxes and customs duties levied by 
the Borrower.  If any change is made to said Ordonnance which has the effect of 
levying taxes or customs duties on such goods or works, the percentages referred to 
above shall be decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions.
5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for works under contracts not 
exceeding $150,000 equivalent, goods and vehicles under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent, and services of: (a) consulting firms for contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent, and (b) individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the capacity of rural communities in 
the territory of the Borrower to manage their natural resources in accordance with 
sound and sustainable practices.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Sub-projects
Promotion, identification, appraisal, designing, supervision and evaluation of 
community initiated activities for the construction, rehabilitation and establishment 
of essential local economic and social infrastructure through the implementation of 
activities in selected rural communities in the territory of the Borrower, including 
activities relating to:
1.
(a)
land and water conservation and anti-desertification measures through, 
inter alia: (i) water harvesting structures; (ii) soil fertility preservation; (iii) 
fire breakers and (iv) improved agricultural production techniques;
Page  9
(b)
improvement of drinking water supply through, inter alia: drilling of 
wells and construction of cisterns and water wheels; and
(c)
rehabilitation and construction of rural roads.
2.
(a) Agro-industry; (b) forest management; (c) regenerative energy harnessing; 
and (d) market facilities and community shops;
3.
improvement of farming products through, inter alia, livestock fattening, grain 
storage, and medicine supply; and
4.
carrying out of pilot rangeland management practices aiming at the 
rehabilitation of natural pastures and the development of sustainable livestock 
production.
Part B:
Institutional Support
1.
Provision of technical advisory services to facilitate the organization of ADCs.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services, satellite imagery, and acquisition of 
equipment and vehicles to facilitate the carrying out, administration and 
sustainability of Sub-projects through strengthening or establishment, as the case may 
be, of:
(a)
rural extension services on land use and agricultural techniques at the 
community level;
(b)
financial support teams to provide services and training to ADCs in the 
areas of, inter alia: (i) financial project management; (ii) common-property-resource 
preservation; and (iii) group relations and consensus building methods, at the 
regional level; and
(c)
a working group in charge of planning, coordinating and supervision of 
Sub-projects, and the integration of said Sub-projects into regional national 
development plans, at the central level.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services for the carrying out of a study on 
statistical data in the rural sector through ONS.
4.
Rehabilitation of offices for ECPG.
Part C:
Skill Development
1.
Provision of technical advisory services, and acquisition of equipment for, 
inter alia: (a) carrying out of studies of cost effective methods to establish 
Sub-projects; and (b) testing of pilot activities on behalf of ADCs.
2.
Provision of training to selected members of ADCs and administrative staff in: 
(a) communication and information skills; (b) organization techniques; (c) 
environmental awareness; and (d) technical expertise required to carry out and 
administer Sub-projects.
*        *        *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Page  10
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods, shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Competitive Bidding
Contracts for satellite imagery may be procured in accordance with paragraph 3.2 
of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent; and works estimated to cost less 
than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded to the lowest bidder on the basis of quotations obtained 
from three (3) qualified domestic contractors. The invitation shall include reference 
unit prices established by ECPG, a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  11
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $ 
150,000 or more; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection 
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of Consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part B.1 of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any request for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
Page  12
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. However, the exception to prior review by the Association will not apply to the 
terms of reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-source hiring, to 
assignments of a critical nature as determined by the Association or to amendments of 
contracts raising the contract value above the prior review threshold.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
A.
Implementation of the Project  
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project, in accordance with the Manual of Procedures and shall not amend or waive 
any provision thereof without the prior approval of the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
supplemental letter of even date herewith the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, semiannually, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, one month after having furnished to the 
Association the report referred to under subparagraph (b) of this paragraph (1), or 
such later date as the Association shall request, said report and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association views on the matter.
3.
(a)
The Borrower and the Association shall undertake a joint review of the 
Project during the first calendar quarter of every year in which representatives of 
ADCs may be invited to participate.  This review shall cover, inter alia: (i) the 
progress made in the execution of the Project, summary review of the reports referred 
to under paragraph (2) of this Schedule; (ii) the ADC’s adherence to the provisions of 
the MP, and proposed changes to said MP; (iii) the implementation of Sub-project 
Agreements, (iv) an evaluation of: (A) the adequacy of the ADC’s contribution to 
Sub-projects; and (B) the performance of the pilot activities referred to under Part 
A.4 of the Project in accordance with the indicators set forth in the supplemental 
letter of even date herewith; (v) a review of the recommendations of the Conseil de 
Surveillance and the Comité de Pilotage; and (vi) the approval of the implementation 
program for the Project, including technical, financial and procurement aspects, for 
the current year.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to each such review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report on the progress and 
status of the Project.
(c)
Following each such review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in 
furtherance of the objective of the Project.
Page  13
4.
(a)
The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than 30 months after 
the Effective Date, or such other date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree 
upon, carry out a mid-term review (hereinafter referred to as the Mid-Term Review) to 
which representatives of ADCs may be invited. Such Mid-Term Review shall cover: (i) 
progress made in the execution of the Project; (ii) assessment of  the external 
evaluation of the training program to be carried out  pursuant to paragraph 7 of this 
Schedule; (iii) land tenure arrangements for the carrying out of Sub-projects; (iv) 
effectiveness of public procurement procedures for achieving the objective of the 
Project; and  (v) the impact of the Project on: (A) the environment; (B) alleviation 
of poverty; and (C) organizational capacity in the rural communities concerned.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to the Mid-Term Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report on the items to be 
covered by said Review, including a draft action program to be carried out until the 
completion of the Project.
(c)
Following such Mid-Term Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in 
furtherance of the objective of the Project.
5.
Within three months after the Effective Date , the Borrower shall establish a 
Comité de pilotage for the technical coordination of the Project, according to terms 
of reference acceptable to the Association and, thereafter maintain said Comité de 
pilotage until the completion of the Project.
6.
The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project:
(a)
staff with adequate qualifications and experience to ensure the 
accomplishment of the objective of the Project; the contractual staff shall be 
recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(b)
the Conseil de Surveillance as provided for in it’s Décret No 96-026/PM, 
dated April 1, 1996.
7.
Not later than one month prior to the Mid-Term Review, the Borrower shall have 
carried out: (a) an independent evaluation of the training program of the Project 
referred to under Part C.2 of the Project; and (b) the study referred to in Part B.4 
of the Project; according to terms of reference acceptable to the Association; and 
submitted the final report of said evaluation and said study to the Association for 
comment.
B.
Implementation of Sub-projects
8.
Eligibility Criteria
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no Sub-project 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless MDRE has 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines 
set forth in the MP, that the Sub-project satisfies the eligibility criteria specified 
in the MP, which shall include the following:
(a)
an ADC has been established in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in the MP in the rural community for which a Sub-project is to be implemented;
(b)
the Sub-project conforms to the regional and central development plans;
(c)
the ADC has paid, or has entered into a commitment, satisfactory to the 
Association, to make the contribution, in kind or in labor, towards implementation and 
maintenance of the Sub-project, which shall be as follows:
(i)
in the case of Sub-projects referred to under Part A.1 (a) and (c) 
of the 
Project, 70% of total Sub-project costs;
Page  14
(ii)
in the case of Sub-projects under Part A.1 (b) and A .2 of the 
Project, 20% of 
total Sub-project costs; and
(iii)
in the case of Sub-projects under Part A.3 of the Project, 40% of 
total Sub-project 
costs.
9.
Terms and Conditions for Sub-project Agreements
A Sub-project shall be carried out pursuant to a Sub-project Agreement, to be 
concluded between MDRE and the ADC, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, providing for, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the financing of a Sub-project provided for out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out and maintain a Sub-project in accordance with 
the MP, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
technical, environmental, financial and commercial practices and to maintain adequate 
records in such form and detail as the Association may reasonably request;
(c)
the obligation that: (i) works to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit for a Sub-project shall be procured according to the provisions of Part C 
paragraph (2) or (4) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as the case may be; 
(ii) goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for a Sub-project shall be 
procured according to the provisions of Part C paragraph (2) or (3) of Section I of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as the case may be; and (iii) contracts for consultants’ 
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for a Sub-project shall be 
procured according to the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and that such goods, works and consultants’ services shall be used exclusively for the 
carrying out of the Sub-project;
(d)
the right to inspect, by the Borrower or the Association, or jointly with 
qualified representatives of the Association, or the Borrower, if the Association, or 
the Borrower, shall so request, the works, plans and construction sites relevant to 
the Sub-project, and any relevant documents;
(e)
the right to appropriate remedies, acceptable to the Association, should 
the carrying out or the maintenance of the Sub-project, as the case may be, not 
conform to the regulations set forth in the MP and the Sub-project Agreement;
(f)
the right to obtain all such information as the Association, or the 
Borrower shall reasonably request, relating to the administration and financial 
condition of the Sub-project; and
(g)
in the case of Sub-projects under Part A .3 of the Project, that the ADC 
has entered into a contract with the Implementing Agency, stipulating, mutatis 
mutandis, the same rights and obligations of the ADC, the Borrower and the Association 
as outlined under paragraph B.9 (a) through (f) of this Schedule.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $800,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount of $400,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
Page  15
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively: (a) for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule; and (b) in accordance 
with paragraph 7 of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence acceptable to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, or by the 
Regional Centers out of any of the advance Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time 
as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account or the 
Advance Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  16
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account or the Advance Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower, shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions. 
7.
(a)
The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
each Advance Account funds to assist ECPG to pay for works, goods and services under 
the Project. The Borrower shall ensure that the amount held in any Advance Account 
does not exceed the equivalent of $50,000.
(b)
Payments out of Advance Accounts shall only be made for Eligible 
Expenditures in respect of Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
Any withdrawal from any Advance Account must be justified by the same 
documentation and other evidence regarding eligible expenditures as provided for under 
paragraph 3 of this Schedule.
(d)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Advance Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Special Account such outstanding amount.
