                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 27558

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (IDA-29650 PPFI-P9480 PPFI-P9481)

                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$18.0 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                       MAURITANIA

                                          FOR A

                RAINFED NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                     December 24, 2 003




Environmental, Rural & Social Development
Country Department 15
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective Average throughout the duration of the project)

                              Currency Unit = Mauritanian Ouguiya (MRO)
                                     1 MRO = US$ 0.004739
                                       US$ 1 = 211 MRO

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                     01/01    12/31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADC:      Association de Développement Communautaire (Community Development
          Associations)
AFVP:     Association Française des Volontaires du Progrès (French Association of Voluntaries
          for Development)
AMIA:     Association Mauritanienne des Ingénieurs Agronomes (Mauritanian Association of
          Agricultural Engineers)
ASP       Agricultural Services Project
AVB:      Agents de vulgarisation de Base (Extension Agents)
CAS:      Country Assistance Strategy
CBRD:     Community Based Rural Development
CFPR:     Centre de Formation des Producteurs Ruraux (Training Center for Rural Producers)
CNRADA:   Centre National de Recherche Agricole et de Développement Agricole (National
          Research and Development Center)
CNERV:    Centre National d'Elevage et de Recherche Vétérinaire (National Livestock and
          Veterinary Research Center)
DRFV:     Direction de la Recherche, de la Formation et de la Vulgarisation (Research, Training
          and Extension Directorate)
ECPG:     Equipe Centrale de Programmation et de Gestion (Central Planning and Management
          Team of PGRNP)
EMAT:     Equipe Mobile d'Appui Technique (Mobile Technical Support Team)
ENFVA:    Ecole Nationale de Formation et de Vulgarisation Agricoles (National School for
          Agricultural Training and Extension)
ERR:      Economic Rate of Return
FLM:      Fédération Luthérienne Mondiale (World Lutheran Federation - Intern. NGO)
IDA:      International Development Association
IRR:      Internal Rate of Return
KPI:      Key Performance Indicators
MDRE:     Ministère du Développement Rural et de l'Environnement (Ministry of Rural
          Development and Environment)
M&E:      Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO:      Non-Governmental Organization
NPV:      Net Present Value
NRM:      Natural Resource Management
ONS       Office National de la Statistique (National Office of Statistics)
PDO:      Project Development Objective
PGRNP     Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles en Zones Pluviales
          (Rainfed Natural Resources Management Project)

PIU:      Project Implementation Unit
PPF:      Project Preparation Facility
SAPROCAM: Stratégie d'Appui à la Promotion des Organisations Coopératives, Associatives et
          Mutualistes (Strategic support for the promotion of cooperatives, associations and
          mutual benefit societies)
SAR:      Staff Appraisal Report
TTL:      Task Team Leader
TV:       Television

                             Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                           Country Director      A. David Craig
                            Sector Manager       Mary Barton-Dock
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Amadou Oumar Ba

                                        MAURITANIA
                     RAINFED Natural Resource Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P001875                                                  Project Name: Mauri:RAINFED NAT RES MGT
Team Leader: Amadou Oumar Ba                                         TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 24, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Mauri:RAINFED NAT RES MGT                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-29650; PPFI-P9480;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9481
   Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (45%); General
                            public administration sector (23%); Water supply (15%);
                            Agricultural extension and research (13%); Roads and highways
                            (4%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); Civic engagement, participation and
                            community driven development (P); Other environment and natural
                            resources management (P); Environmental policies and institutions
                            (S); Technology diffusion (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/25/1994                                     Effective: 01/12/1998                01/12/1998
     Appraisal: 01/22/1997                                         MTR: 06/01/2000                  03/28/2001
      Approval: 06/17/1997                                      Closing: 03/31/2003                 03/21/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Islamic Republic of Mauritania/Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:             Amadou Oumar Ba
ICR Primary Author:             Ismael Ouedraogo; Amadou
                                Oumar Ba; Franz Schorosch


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The project was conceived as the first five-year phase of a long-term, twenty-year, natural
resources management program that would cover the whole rainfed zone of Mauritania. The
project's long-term objective, "to break the poverty spiral well illustrated in this part of the world
by the nexus of population growth, environmental degradation and the reduction of agricultural
productivity," is for the twenty-year program and not for the five-year operation. When reading
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), it appears that the current operational guidelines for logical
framework design (project development objective, components' outputs and inputs) were not yet
common practice during project preparation in the mid-1990s. Recognizing this fact, one can see
that the project development objective (PDO) corresponds to the "expected impact" stated in the
SAR, i.e., "the improvement of the basic ecological functions through resource management,
bringing about sustainable yield increases (in crops and livestock) and increased incomes for
participating communities". The project's specific objectives are the "expected outcome" stated
in the SAR: (i) the empowerment of rural communities, i.e., the provision of skills to organize, to
manage common resources and obtain access to financing; and (ii) an improved institutional
environment in the rural sector, including secure access to natural resources."                   The
components' expected outputs can be summarized as follows: (i) well-chosen and well-managed
village investments; (ii) stronger technical services to the community; and (iii) the generation and
dissemination of appropriate technologies, and the development of required skills.

    The PDO, as expressed in terms of "sustainable yield increases (in crops and livestock) and
increased incomes for participating communities," is consistent with the program's long-term
objective. The SAR defines six key performance indicators (KPI), one of which, judiciously,
reflects the project's expected outreach (number of beneficiaries). Two other KPI, "estimated
income (per capita)" and "soil erosion (cm per year)," directly relate to the PDO, but the SAR
cautions that "base line data is not available until sampling is carried out; and that expected goals
are highly tentative." Such a sampling, however, was overlooked during implementation. The
other three KPI are input indicators. In addition to the KPI, the SAR defines several other
performance indicators, but it does not always clearly distinguish the outcome from the output
indicators, and the output from the input indicators. Fortunately, the project's impact and results
on the ground are substantial and, with the performance indicators matrix properly recast (see
Annex 1), they provide a sound basis for assessing the project's performance.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable. Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
    The project had three components: (i) financial support for investments in 250 villages chosen
from representative agro-ecological zones of the country's rainfed area; (ii) strengthening of
Government services in order to support community organization, improving the legal framework
for local empowerment, and financing Government's technical support to beneficiaries; and (iii)
enhancement of skills, including the development of required technologies (research, short- and
medium-term technical assistance), and the dissemination of those technologies through extension
and training. A fourth, very small component, Pastoral Livestock (pilot) Project, was suggested
during preparation, but was eventually dropped during appraisal and thus not included in the


                                                 - 2 -

Development Credit Agreement (DCA). Activities under this component were undertaken as
Village Investments. This change, however, was overlooked in the cost tables, which, to the end
of the project, continued to refer to this component.

A) Village investments

    Village investments were to represent a large percentage of both the credit (56%) and the
total project cost (65%). Under the NRM approach, the community concerned makes the final
choice of technologies to be implemented based on the community's own goals and the ecological
constraints it faces. Therefore, the range and cost estimates of village investments included in the
project document were to be viewed as indicative, rather than quantitative project objectives and
indicators of project achievement. Suggested investment activities comprised the following
categories: (1) Land and water conservation; (2) Infrastructure and equipment; and (3) Other
investments (micro-enterprises).

B) Strengthening of Public Support

    Institutional support provided under the project was to cover three different areas: (i)
community organization and linkages with elected communal entities; (ii) application of the legal
framework in order to ensure reasonably secure access to common resources; and (iii) technical
support to participating communities and to the Government in order to establish, implement and
monitor the community-based NRM plans.

C) Skill Development

    Skill development provided under the project covered the following areas: ·(1) technical
assistance and research;·(2)· training and public awareness; and (3) improving rural statistical data
(viewed as necessary to establish capacity in baseline and performance data collection).

    The overall design of the project was well conceived.         Components were appropriately
selected to be mutually reinforcing, with two "software" or capacity building components
(Components B and C: strengthening of public support and skill development) designed to
guarantee the successful operation and maintenance of the "hardware" or investment component
(Component A: village investments). During implementation, however, relatively more resources
were allocated to the capacity building components when the support expected from the
Agricultural Services Project (ASP) turned out to be deficient and cut short. Like the PGRNP,
the ASP was conceived as the first phase of a long-term program, but it closed at the end of the
"first phase" because of poor management.

    In terms of key design features of project implementation, the SAR clearly stated that this
kind of operation needed an approach very different from that of more traditional projects. It
stressed that the operation would (a) seek to address rural development in an integrated, not
sub-sectoral way; (b) be pro-active and address the underlying causes of environmental
degradation (i.e., mainly the overuse of resources); (c) not implement action programs defined
and implemented by Government services, but rather--in a bottom-up, participatory



                                                - 3 -

mode--implement programs and services demanded by organized communities that would set
goals and take village investment decisions; (d) be carried out in close coordination with ongoing
programs and projects to avoid duplication of efforts; and (e) support the communal development
policy pursued by the government. These extremely pertinent design features were successfully
implemented.
3.4 Revised Components:

        Component                                           Cost                    Rating

VILLAGE INVESTMENT                                     $17,400,000.00                 S
STRENGTHENING OF PUBLIC SECTOR                         $ 4,100,000.00                 S
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT                                     $ 1,600,000.00                 S

        The project components did not require revision during implementation. The cost table
above was adjusted to reflect the fact that activities (for USD 500,000) under the suggested
Pastoral Livestock Program were carried under component A: Village Investment.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    The Bank's overall performance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory.           The
project was one of the first among a cluster of natural resource management projects designed in
the early 1990`s in the Sahelian countries. As such, it received considerable technical and
management attention from project identification through preparation, which was carefully
planned and executed over an extended period of time. The objective of the 20-year program and
that of the five-year project were fully in line with the 1994 CAS and 1997 draft CAS. The latter
set forth a comprehensive development strategy for Mauritania, including: (i) human resource
development and poverty reduction to develop the skills of rural communities, create conditions
conducive to their empowerment, and improve the quality of life of rainfed farmers,              (ii)
development of the agricultural sector along participatory lines, and (iii) environmental protection
and rehabilitation. The project also fitted in well with the 1994 Country Environmental Strategy
Paper that identified the unsustainable, inequitable and inefficient management of natural
resources as a major challenge. Finally, the project supported the Government's Poverty
Alleviation Strategy (1994) and the Agricultural Development Strategy agreed upon between the
Government and the Bank in 1995. The project reflects close and active dialogue between the
Government and the Bank concerning the rural and agricultural sector during project preparation.
Bank's safeguard policies were followed and an environmental assessment was carried out. One
shortcoming is in the design of the logical framework when it is compared to current practice.
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not review the project at entry.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
(Overall: Satisfactory)

    In the 295 villages, where it intervened (compared to 250 expected in the SAR), the project
reached 120,000 people (compared to 75,000 expected) and contributed to the overarching
objective of the 20-year program "to control and ... reduce the spiral of poverty illustrated by the
confluence of ... environmental degradation and reduced agricultural production." This outcome


                                                 - 4 -

is confirmed in the assessment of the project's PDO and outputs below (further details are in
Annexes 1 and 3 and in section 4.3 of the ICR text).

    Overall, the project made satisfactory progress toward achieving its development objective of
"sustainable yield increases and increased incomes for participating communities."              This
assessment is based on the supervision and ICR missions' observations and the economic and
financial analysis of a sample of income-generating activities carried out for the ICR. The
supervision and ICR missions observed that investments in soil and water conservation (e.g.,
aerial tree seeding, rehabilitation and protection of retention dams) visibly improved the re-growth
of natural vegetation and soil fertility, resulting in positive effects on the degradation process
(albeit not documented in terms of erosion reduction in cm/year) and on agricultural yields. The
protection of parts of community's land area, such as natural forest areas and Arabic Gum
plantations brought into rational use, increased the available natural resource base. It is estimated
that protecting (fencing) crop area against animal intrusion cut production losses by 30%.
Regarding sorghum, the most widely grown rainfed crop, there was not only an increase in yield,
but also a doubling in the area cultivated (through land brought back into use) with
project-supported investment in small dams and water harvesting compared to the "without
project" situation. Under the degraded, "without project" conditions, one unit area was cultivated
yielding 200 kg/ha while the other unit remained unproductive, resulting in an aggregate yield of
100 kg/ha. With the project, both pieces of land are brought under production with an average
yield of 800 kg/ha. Livestock offtake also increased due to the project, but its extent was not
documented. The project introduced vegetable production in the project area, following research
and extension demonstration work. The increases in incomes are shown in terms of positive net
present value and internal rates of return of the stream of revenues in income-generating activities
supported by the project.

    Another expected project's outcome, the empowerment of village communities, is considered
highly satisfactory. The project succeeded remarkably in implementing a participatory approach,
which has had a great impact in the area of social organization and change in attitudes among
rural communities. The latter have been empowered to organize and manage their common
resources, through the strengthening of capacities of the ADCs (Association de Développement
Communautaire). The ADC is becoming a central rural institution, which allows villagers to
manage their own development process and represents them vis-à-vis the outside world. There is
ample evidence obtained during interviews and participatory surveys of ADCs to suggest that
villagers are developing a new attitude towards their own physical environment as they are
becoming aware and conscious of the need to husband and responsibly manage their natural
resources. Proof is that trees around villages are now better protected. This newly shared
attitude translates into reduced internal conflict. A cohesive group also works more easily to
diffuse conflicts with external groups. In particular, conflict between herders and agriculturists
was averted in those villages where fencing kept free roaming animals away from agricultural
areas. Out-migration of men reportedly stopped in a number of villages because rural men could
now make a living from the rational harvest of Arabic Gum in villages where this activity was
successfully conducted.

    Women also have been greatly empowered, despite their still limited number in the ADC's



                                                 - 5 -

bureaus. Indeed, the top priority in all village investments consisted of activities that eased
women's burden (closer access to water) and provided them with cash income (through the
management of gardens and village retail stores). Also, the two ADCs headed by women could
serve to indicate that women can play the lead role in a male-dominated society.

    The success of the project also comes from the fact that the ADC, by its legal status granted
by the decentralization authorities, is now part of the legal institutional framework at the grass
root level, and not just an ad-hoc instrument to implement village activities more effectively. The
ADC provides village members with a secure access to natural resources since any member of the
ADC, regardless of gender or social status, has a right to equitable use of the common resources
(e.g., water, proceeds from income-generating activities). Investments are provided by the project
to the whole community in a transparent way, which minimizes the risks of capture by local elites.
Thanks to the increased social interactions within the village, social cohesion has increased and
social capital has been created. In some cases, leaders of ADCs are also members of the Municipal
Councils. This has not gone unnoticed at the national level and will have a lasting impact.
Government decentralization officials acknowledge that the ADCs are becoming vital ingredients
in the Government's decentralization strategy and strengthening of rural communes.

    The project's contribution to capacity building of the Ministry of Rural Development and
Environment (MDRE - Ministère du Développement Rural et de l'Environnement) is considered
a highly satisfactory outcome. The project strengthened MDRE's Regional Directorates (
Délégations régionales) and its Research, Training and Extension Directorate (DRFV in French)
at central level (see paragraph on institutional impact). Through sub-contracting of specific works
and services with many different service providers from the public as well as the private sector,
the PGRNP mobilized the best existing available resources. Clear specification of all the legal and
technical aspects in these contracts is a difficult task that requires competent and specialized staff.
Despite some shortcomings in contract formulation, the project demonstrated to the country that
this approach is often the most cost effective and efficient one and should be used whenever
feasible.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(see Additional Information: Section 10):

Component A ­ Village investments
(Satisfactory)

    This is the key component of the project and the most successful one. More than 1,500
well-documented village investments were designed and implemented through a tested and proven
participatory approach. They covered numerous activities (see Section 10 for details) distributed
as follows: (a) investments in 9 types of land and water conservation activities, (b) investments in
9 types of infrastructure and equipment activities, and (c) investments in 5 kinds of
micro-enterprises. Under this sub-component, beneficiaries executed activities linked to the
pastoral pilot program. By the project closing date (March 31, 2003), investments under this
component totaled US$14 million and were about US$48,000 per village and US$120 per
beneficiary.   In all cases, ADCs contributed to the investment, generally in kind but also
sometimes in cash. The user fees for the services provided by the ADC (e.g., water and mills)


                                                  - 6 -

included the operating and maintenance cost.

    Under the "land and water conservation" sub-component, the following technologies were
utilized, namely water harvesting techniques, measures to preserve soil fertility,           erosion
prevention ,control of sand dune encroachment, forage production on rangelands, and fuel wood
production. Physical outputs were as follows: 3,470 ha reforested, 263,000 meters fenced, 11,170
km of fire breaks, 8,200 meters of sand dune stabilization, 21,600 half-moons, 500 ha of direct
seeding, and 102 thresholds of deceleration (sills).

    Under the "infrastructure and equipment" sub-component, the investments that were realized
related to civil works for water supply, mechanical equipment (including pumps and food
processing devices, and small agricultural equipment), and social infrastructure.        The most
significant outputs were: new installation or rehabilitation of 70 wells and 8 village water supply
systems, the introduction of vegetable gardens in 217 villages (54 ha), the creation of 210 ha of
agricultural land behind dikes and stone bunds, the installation of 74 cattle vaccination facilities,
the promotion of animal traction (120 draft animals and 1,744 ploughs), and the construction of 5
health posts and 32 classrooms.

    Under the "other investments (micro-enterprises)" sub-component, the project provided funds
for income generating activities related to livestock production, grain storage, and human and
animal medicine supply. The outputs were as follows: 185 grain mills in 185 villages, 63
cooperative stores, 20 oil presses, 66 veterinary deposits and 300 milk goats for 60 families in one
of the ADCs.

    In turn, the village investments have generated additional activities and one can say that the
number and range of the project's outputs have impacted a wide spectrum of members in the
participating communities. For example, grain mills, village stores and village gardens--very
popular among the communities--have generated jobs (in operation and maintenance services),
and additional businesses from the profit reinvested.       Some villages were able to finance a
butchery from their investment in mills. In villages where women's associations manage the
stores, a different group of women (generally a group of three) takes over the responsibility of the
store's management and shares part of the profit as a management fee. In some villages, the
women's associations have used the revenue generated by village stores and gardens to invest in
local craft cottage industries.

Component B ­ Strengthening of Public Support
(Satisfactory)

    This component was designed to provide institutional support to (i) community organizations;
(ii) the application of the legal framework for access to common resources; and (iii) technical
support to participating communities and to the Government in order to establish, implement and
monitor the community-based natural resource management plans.

    Under the "institutional support to community organizations" sub-component, the project
assisted the ADCs in their creation and then their recognition by the Ministry of Interior in charge



                                                - 7 -

of decentralization in Mauritania. Most ADCs were created from existing informal village
associations, whose structure was strengthened and legalized with statutes and by-laws agreed
upon by all members. Any villager could be part of the ADC. The ADC's council comprises 13
members democratically selected, and with at least one woman member. The 295 ADCs were led
by a total of 3,827 people of whom 349 were women, two of whom were ADC's leaders. The
ADCs met regularly once or twice a month. Functional literacy training, conducted through the
ministry in charge of functional literacy, was provided to 6,305.people to support the
organizational capacity of ADCs. The project unit estimates that the organizational capacity is
solid in 31% of the ADCs, average in 61%, but weak in 8% of them.

    With its formal recognition by the decentralization authorities, the ADC is now part of the
rural institutional framework, as already indicated. As such, the ADC provides a legal framework
that now ensures a secure access to the natural resources within the village community. With its
legal status, the ADC can enter into contracts and thus greatly contributes to empower poor rural
populations, as envisioned in the SAR.

    The technical support to participating communities consisted of training in the identification,
organization, planning and management of community-based socioeconomic activities, including
the procurement process. More specifically, a total of 14,750 members of the ADCs were trained
in participatory planning, including investment selection, procurement and operation and
maintenance of ADCs' micro-projects. Most members received training on organization and
management at the Centre de Formation des Producteurs Ruraux (CFPR) in Boghe. ADC
conducted the capacity building through at least 30 visits from regional staff (EMAT). The
villages benefited from regular visits of field extension agents (AVBs) and, in some cases, of
participating NGOs (notably AFVP, AMIA, SAPROCAM and FLM). At first, field extension
agents concentrated on agricultural aspects, but based on the recommendations of the mid-term
review, they later enlarged their scope of intervention to provide advice on all aspects linked to
the project. Village communities also received basic animal health care services provided by
village livestock auxiliaries. As for the assistance to the government, the Regional Directorates of
the MDRE received significant financial and technical support (including formal and on-the-job
training) from the project and other agencies, and were given primarily responsibility for providing
extension services to project's beneficiaries.

Component C ­ Skill Development
(Satisfactory)

    This component covered three aspects: (i) technical assistance and research, (ii) training and
public awareness, and (iii) improving rural statistics. All three sub-components achieved their
objectives and are rated as satisfactory for the following reasons.

    As foreseen in the SAR, the project used technical assistance and research for diagnostic
activities and on-site testing. Following the mid-term review's recommendations and in response
to the closing of Agricultural Services Project (ASP), these services were sub-contracted to public
entities on the basis of detailed annual work programs and budgets. The entities involved were the
Kaedi National Research and Development Center (CNRADA in French), the National Livestock



                                                  - 8 -

and Veterinary Research Center (CNERV in French), and the National Agricultural Training and
Extension School (ENFVA in French). Both CNRADA and CNERV carried out applied research
programs on behalf of the project, covering such topics as introduction of new varieties, fodder
crops, vegetable gardens, irrigation techniques, animal nutrition and herd management, etc. The
two research centers also provided technical backstopping for ongoing extension activities, and
ENFVA trained village livestock auxiliaries. These contracts were well executed. They allowed
the project to mobilize and focus on the available research and training capacity in the public
sector institutions in the project area.

    The training and public awareness program of the project was extensive. The program
enabled the training of all project staff to improve their listening skills, ability to understand and
reach out to rural clients, while at the same time enabling them to master the technical aspects of
the various rural interventions. The project also improved the skills of 203 livestock auxiliaries to
provide basic animal care services to ADCs. Some 822-village training/awareness seminars were
held, and 123 hours of radio and 39 hours of television programs were aired to explain the project
to the public.     In each village, a participatory diagnostic was carried out that led to the
formulation of a village investment plan.         This program of training service providers and
conducting awareness seminars helped strengthen the organizational and managerial capacities of
ADCs discussed in component B.

    The project provided support to the National Statistical Institute (ONS) and the statistical unit
of the MDRE to design survey methods and collect rural statistical data. Prior to the project,
there was no consistent method for rural data collection. The two output indicators of this
sub-component were (i) a methodology for rural surveys and (ii) an action plan to conduct annual
agricultural surveys. With the project support, ONS and the MDRE's statistical unit used a pilot
survey to establish a methodology for data collection. On this basis, the MDRE's statistical unit
has been conducting its annual rural survey (EMEA) since 1999. This survey now provides the
most reliable source of information on the basis of which rural growth is estimated. The data
collected concern annual crop yields for rainfed (sorghum, millet), flood recession (sorghum,
corn) and irrigated (rice, corn, others crops) cultures. It should be noted that this is a national
survey, rather than a survey focused on project-supported sites.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    The SAR did not attempt an economic and financial analysis of the overall project because
such an analysis is not recommended for projects of this nature. Under the project's approach, as
already indicated, each community concerned makes the final choice about the investments to be
undertaken, based on its own goals and the ecological constraints it faces. The economic analysis
undertaken at appraisal, for three speculative models, was only illustrative.

    For the ICR exercise, an economic and financial analysis was conducted on the most
important income-generating investments undertaken by ADCs: small dams rehabilitation,
bunds/dykes (water harvesting), Arabic Gum conservation/management, village gardens, and
village stores (the latter is only for financial analysis purpose). As indicated in section 4.1, this
analysis also serves to illustrate the increase in incomes for participating communities attributable
to the project--a     key indicator of the PDO.        For each type of investment, a model was
constructed based on data collected from project documents, agricultural statistics, and field


                                                  - 9 -

observations on a non-random sample of investments.               Thus as with any non-random
sample-based analysis, the results should be viewed as illustrative.

    Investments in village gardens (all on small plots) yielded high returns, starting in year one
when compared to "without project" situation where nothing else was grown for lack of water.
Based on the improved sorghum yields (see section 4.1), investments in small dams rehabilitation
also showed positive stream of revenue very early. Under this condition, the internal rate of return
was extremely high, and at times impossible to calculate. The estimated NPVs, calculated at 10%
over 15 years and aggregated over all the ADCs undertaking the types of investments indicated,
are as follows: Small dams rehabilitation generate US$8.067 million; bunds (water harvesting),
US$0.989 million; Arabic gum conservation/management, US$2.525 million; and village gardens,
US$10.049 million. The ERRs are largely above the decision criterion of 10% (see Annex 3).
Annex 3 also shows the number of population benefiting from each of the investment analyzed.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
    Given the positive results on the total cost of village investments, financial returns on
beneficiary's contribution is also positive, since by beneficiary's contribution was only a fraction
of total investment--about 33% on average (see Annex 3).

4.5 Institutional development impact:
(Satisfactory)

Village Level. The project succeeded in building up institutional capital at the village level through
intensive awareness raising programs and the creation of Community Development Associations--
Associations de Développement Communautaire (ADC). Members of the ADCs, once elected,
were taught basic skills in planning and managing micro-projects as part of their village
investment plan. Collective decision-making capabilities have been improved, and the ADCs have
implemented community investments and created revolving funds that are now managed
independently by the communities themselves. The social impact study indicates that women
benefited from the project's activities. Monetarily, they shared the profits generated by village
stores and gardens, which are then used to set up handicraft cooperatives. Women were also
empowered by the adult literacy training and participation in ADC's council; in two cases, a
woman was chosen as the head of the ADC.

Municipal Level. No institutional strengthening at the municipal level had been foreseen in the
SAR. Although the municipal council is supposed to be the institutional intermediary between the
ADCs and the departmental and regional political and administrative authorities, it was hardly
involved in the execution of the project. The Mayors did co-sign the village investment plans, but
because of their frequent absence, lack of finance and qualified staff, their role was limited. The
issue of strengthening the capacity of municipalities will be taken up in the follow-up operation.

Regional Level. It is at this level, besides the village level, where most of the institutional
strengthening occurred. The regional political and administrative authority (Waly) and its Rural
Development Council were closely associated in         supervising the project's activities and in
ensuring that the project functioned properly. They made many site visits and were present every
time a completed micro-projects or investment goods were handed over to the ADCs. In addition,



                                                - 10 -

it was the Regional Delegation of the MDRE that was heavily involved in providing technical
support to the project. It consisted of technical staff the majority of which were employed by the
project on a contractual basis and had a clearly defined work program and payment schedules.
The challenging nature of the project enabled them to broaden their knowledge and develop new
expertise. They are now able to provide better and broader support to villagers on various
matters related to community-driven development, in particular, bringing together the technical,
social, economic and environmental dimensions of development.

National Level. The capacity of central government services involved in the project has been
strengthened, and they are increasingly oriented towards addressing poverty issues in rural areas.
The project enabled the DRFV to play its coordinating role and to guide and supervise extension
activities carried out by AVBs in the Regional Directorates of MDRE. Finally, the project's
participatory village development approach was incorporated into the Government's Poverty
Reduction Strategy, and 36 more villages were covered by the project with additional government
financing from the Commissariat for Poverty Reduction the agency in charge of poverty reduction
in Mauritania (using mainly HIPC debt relief funds).              Under the follow-up project, a close
coordination with the "Commissariat" will be maintained.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    Adverse climatic conditions remain the main constraint in rainfed agriculture, over which the
Government and the implementing agency have no control. The other constraint is the lack of
road access in the project area; had villages been of easier access, they would have been visited
even more often than what was accomplished. Again, the government and the implementing
agency had little control over this constraint due to lack of resources.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    The government took great interest in this project and used the ADCs as a building block for
its decentralization strategy. It established the project's central planning and implementation team
(ECPG in French) in a timely manner prior to project effectiveness. During implementation,
MDRE provided necessary oversight and ensured transparency in project financial management
through internal reviews. No financial management issues were ever reported. Several other
ministries (Ministry of Water Resources and Energy, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Interior,
Post and Telecommunications, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development) demonstrated
their strong support for the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    Strong commitment and action within the implementing agency enabled the project to exceed
its target of village communities and number of beneficiaries. The project did not experience the
common problem of turnover in project staff. Despite the limitations of the accounting software,
audits were always on time and unqualified. Project management was skilful in subcontracting and
dealing with a wide range of service providers ranging from technical departments of Ministries,
regional delegations of MDRE, private firms and NGOs. Project management was equally adroit
in dealing with regional political and administrative authorities and elected officials at all levels.
This allowed the PIU to build a good reputation and political support for the project. The PIU
used large media coverage (TV, radio and the press) to inform the public of the project's


                                                     - 11 -

activities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
    At the end of the project, total costs (US$22.84 million) were slightly lower than estimated at
appraisal (US$25.80 million), with the difference accounted for by the built-in price contingencies.
The entire IDA credit amount was nearly disbursed (98%). Overall project's cost estimates were
accurate and IDA's financing adequate. A review of the final costs by component--excluding
project management (see Annex 2) shows that actual village investments (component A) were
28% lower than estimated at appraisal, whereas the strengthening public support (component B)
and skill development (component C) were cumulatively 40% higher, but from a much smaller
basis. As indicated, the project responded to a demand for public agricultural services, which
proved much stronger than anticipated, to support village communities. This also indicates the
prudent approach adopted by the project to not fund village investments just for the sake of
funding them. The share of beneficiaries' contribution to investment anticipated at 29% at
appraisal was about 33% overall.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
(Likely)

        The issue of sustainability was addressed at three levels: the PDO, the ADC organization,
and the village investments.

Sustainability at Project level.         As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, the project was
originally conceived as the first five-year time slice of a long term (20-year) natural resources
management program that would cover the whole rainfed zone of Mauritania, and that would halt
and reverse the process of natural resource degradation. Although it has been initiated with
encouraging results, "the improvement of the basic ecological functions through resource
management, bringing about sustainable yield increases (in crops and livestock) and increased
incomes for participating communities" will take time to hold.

Sustainability at Village level. At the organizational level, the ADC, which is a structure
officially recognized by the decentralization authorities, is now considered a keystone in the
Government's decentralization strategy. ADCs' leaders are now well acknowledged in their
functions by the regional administration. More and more, ADC members are taking over political
role at local level (communal council). Functional literacy training was conducted in all villages
and benefited women's groups as well. Training programs was focused on strengthening the
managerial capacity of ADC's members to implement and operate socio-economic investments,
such as water distribution systems, community shops, grain mills, etc. Agricultural production
increased through project-financed land and water conservation subprojects, and incomes were
generated and additional jobs were created through the other income-generating activities. The
sustainability of the ADC is viewed as likely because this institution has bestowed both political
power and socio-economic benefit to all members of a community that previously felt as
powerless because it was poor. Furthermore, sustainability is even more likely for those ADCs
that have benefited from a combination of a critical mass of investment and adequate support in



                                                 - 12 -

capacity building. The project estimates that sustainability is highly likely for 31% of ADCs,
which received 4 years and more of project support and implemented 5 activities totaling $54,000;
likely for 60% of ADCs, which received 2-3 years of support and implemented 4 activities totaling
$46,000; and less likely for the 8% of ADCs, which received only 1 year of support and
implemented 4 activities totaling $42,000.          There is a need for a follow-up operation to
consolidate progress realized during this operation.

Sustainability at the Level of each Investment. Based on available data and participatory
observations, most types of investments funded under the project are sustainable. Operation and
maintenance fees for income generating assets or services (e.g., fountain water) are being
collected by the ADCs and are sufficient to guarantee the continued functioning of these assets or
services; in some cases, the fees are enough to also cover the replacement costs. Community
members responsible for these investments have received basic training and are aware of the
importance of good maintenance. In spite of all this the following constraints to sustainability,
especially concerning social, non-income generating investments, still remain: (i) lack of labor for
maintenance, in certain villages, due to continuous migration; (ii) lack of specialized repairmen in
the area; (iii) limited management skills, partly linked to illiteracy; and (iv) in a few cases, poor
design of investments or poor technological choices. These constraints need to be taken into
account in a follow-up operation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
        The success of this operation has encouraged the Government and the Bank to launch the
preparation of a follow-up operation, the Community-Based Rural Development (CBRD) Project.
Its development objective would be to improve the living conditions of project-supported rural
communities in terms of sustainable income increase and access to basic social services. The
planned operation would achieve its objective through community-centered capacity building and
investments in economic, social and environmental activities.           The CBRD project is about
scaling-up the results achieved by the PGRNP, in terms of geographical coverage (increased
number of villages) and scope (involving municipalities and inter-village development). The
CBRD intends to collaborate with other IDA programs and other donors-funded programs to
bring the best assistance to village communities and rural communes. The Government has
maintained the PGRNP management and technical team in order to prepare the next operation.
IDA has just approved the Government's request for a PPF.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
(Satisfactory)

        Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. This project was
one of the first among a cluster of natural resource management projects in the Sahel designed in
the early 1990`s. As such, it received considerable technical and management attention starting
from project identification. Its preparation was carefully planned and executed over an extended
period of time. FAO/CP assisted in the preparation and a PPF was put in place to finance start-up
project activities and to test pilot activities. During appraisal, every effort was made to ensure that
in its design the project took advantage of the IDA financed Agricultural Services Project


                                                  - 13 -

(IDA-25750), which aimed at upgrading the supply of agricultural services nationwide, focusing
on strengthening the linkages between extension, research and agricultural training. Thus, the
project used the extension agents (AVB) of the Ministry of Rural Development and the
Environment (MDRE), thereby avoiding duplication and contributing to the institutional
strengthening of MDRE, especially at the regional level. As already indicated, overall project's
cost estimates were accurate and IDA's financing, adequate.           Project risks were correctly
identified and adequate safeguard measures were put in place.          All procedures for project
implementation were developed before the start of the project and included in a well-prepared
implementation manual (except for the M&E manual). Also, as already indicated, the logical
framework and the key performance indicators should have received more attention during
implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
(Satisfactory)

        Supervision by the Bank has been rated marginally satisfactory. All supervision missions
spent adequate time in the field and were always accompanied by regional and local authorities.
The three changes in Task Team Leader (TTL) did not affect the good working relationships that
Bank staff established with project management and government officials. The skill mix of regular
supervision missions was adequate, considering the strong presence of staff in the Bank's
Nouakchott office (agricultural services specialist, procurement specialist, and disbursement
specialist) and the budget constraints in 1999-2000. All aspects of the project were reviewed
including M&E, which was regularly reviewed by the TTL. Supervision missions recommended
that the project address the need not only in monitoring the project's inputs and outputs , but also
in evaluating its performance, i.e., collecting data to allow for example financial and economic
analysis of village investments. The project implementation unit, however, did not follow through
on this recommendation, which explains the deficiency in data collection which was flagged as a
shortcoming of the project.

        A mid-term review was carried out (March/April 2001). Well-prepared and adequately
staffed (including staff from the Bank's Dakar office), it allowed an in-depth review of all aspects
of the project.    It was judiciously planned to coincide with the completion mission of the
IDA-financed Agricultural Services Project, and allowed to dovetail the two operations. The
mid-term review mission correctly observed that the dispersion of selected villages (only about
1/3rd of the villages per municipality are covered) doesn't allow communities to deal with
common natural resources and investment needs at the inter-village and municipality levels (e.g.,
watershed management, schools, rural roads). It was agreed that a follow-up operation should
tackle this issue. The mid-term's aide-memoire was comprehensive and provided clear guidelines
for the remainder of the project. Several special missions were also conducted, including (i)
pre-identification mission for a follow up operation (March/April 2002) conducted by the
consultants recruited by the borrower; (ii) a mission to review the social dimension of the project
(June 2002); (iii) an identification mission for the follow-up operation (November 2002); and (iv)
the ICR mission in two phases (July and August 2003).

    The Bank supervision missions, however, are equally responsible as the project unit's , for the
shortcomings identified in the implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system.


                                                - 14 -

Particularly the logical framework, should have been revised after the mid-term review (2001) to
adhere to the operational guidelines that were in place at that time. The PSR should also have
been revised accordingly.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
(Satisfactory)

        The Bank's overall performance is satisfactory. From the design phase to implementation,
Bank staff developed a pioneering project in participatory rural development at the village level,
empowering community development associations (ADC) to define and satisfy their collective
investment needs. In supervision, the Bank was flexible and adapted well to changes without
losing focus on the main objectives of the project, resisting pressure and temptation to unduly
enlarge the number of beneficiary communities, which would have spread benefits too thinly and
reduced the development impact. Were it not for the shortcomings in baseline data and M&E
system, overall Bank performance would have been rated as highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
(Satisfactory)

        The borrower was fully committed to the project's approach and design. It was fully
involved in project preparation and mobilized the necessary technically competent staff. The key
staff involved during project preparation and negotiations were maintained for project
implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
(Satisfactory)

        The Government played an active role in the Supervisory Council and the Technical
Steering Committee. It facilitated the coordination and collaboration with the technical services of
the MDRE and other Ministries. At the regional, departmental and local levels, it provided its full
support without undue political interference. Government representatives at all level scrupulously
respected project procedures, including the criteria for selecting municipalities and villages. They
also respected the investment decisions made by the ADCs and the operating procedures for the
implementation of micro-projects.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
(Satisfactory)
    The project staff--from headquarters' specialists to mobile regional technical support teams(
EMATs)--was highly motivated, willing and able (thanks to training in participatory approaches
right from the start) to assist village communities. The management and technical staff suffered
no turnover during implementation, even as ministers of MDRE kept changing very often. The
stability of the PIU and the good results on the ground gave national recognition and support to
the project. The project skillfully used mass media (rural radio and television) to support its
activities. Regarding financial management, despite a deficient computerized system, audits were
performed on time without any major reservation, and no procurement issues have been raised.
All the same, the shortcoming in the M&E system should be noted. The monitoring part was


                                               - 15 -

about adequate, especially concerning the realization of village investment, but the evaluation part
was deficient, safe for the social impact study that was carried out in 2002.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
(Satisfactory)

    The Government of Mauritania respected its legal obligations and enabled the project to
function with full participation of the beneficiaries at village level. Through this project, the
Government demonstrated its commitment to poverty reduction, rural development, and
decentralization. The project naturally became a key element of the country's national poverty
reduction strategy initiated in 2001.

8. Lessons Learned

    Experience gained under the Rainfed Natural Resources Management Project supports the
notion that:

       l A combination of a critical mass of investment activities per rural community and
            adequate time in building the community's capacity is instrumental in realizing the
            eradication of extreme poverty (essentially a rural phenomenon in Mauritania) and the
            sustainability of natural resources: two Millennium Development Goals (MDG). This
            makes the case for a long-term commitment to community-based development
            programs.

       l Transparent and well-publicized procedures in community-driven projects serve to
            neutralize (as would be expected) exogenous political interference and attempts by the
            community's elite to capture project's benefits. Once an agreement has been reached
            on the choice of the communities, eligible investments and maximum investment
            amounts per community, the specific village investment plans become binding and can
            only be changed by a new consensus at the community level, and not by one
            individual.

       l Baseline data and a functional M&E matter even when direct beneficiaries openly
            express their genuine satisfaction for the many benefits received. The project did not
            implement a functional M&E system to evaluate qualitatively and quantitatively the
            project's performance. This was further compounded by the fact that the need for a
            baseline was overlooked during project preparation. Furthermore, the logical
            framework lacked clarity in great part (in as much as it was not consistent with
            current practice) and no methods were suggested at preparation or during
            implementation on how to measure indicators too broadly defined.

       l An effective centralized Project Implementation Unit (PIU) does not preclude the
            necessity to decentralize project management as much as possible, specially in a vast
            country such as Mauritania, with a large number of scattered communities. The PIU
            at headquarters efficiently handled financial management and overall project's
            coordination. Nonetheless, the project succeeded in great part because it worked



                                                  - 16 -

             with, and strengthened the decentralized regional units of the Ministry of Rural
             Development and Environment. With the expansion planned under the follow-up
             project, these decentralized units will play an even greater role.

        l Mass media communication (TV and radio) is extremely useful in informing the public
             about the project's activities. This can be further expanded, for example, through
             interactive radio programs, tailor-made to support specific project activities. Also, the
             use of mobile phones should be envisioned in future operations given the increasing
             prevalence of such communication devices even in rural areas of Mauritania.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    (This is a summarized translation from French of the document sent to the Bank on October
    27, 2003 by the letter no 0957/MDRE signed by Mr. Mohamed Mahmoud Ould Valili Ould
    Abidine, Minister of Rural Development and Environment).

        We have examined with much interest the Implementation Completion Report of the
    Rainfed Natural Resources Management Project (NRMP) prepared by the Bank, and are
    grateful for the opportunity we are given to express our views before the document is
    finalized. We share the Bank's views about the project's satisfactory performance, in relation
    to the achievement of its assigned objectives at appraisal, and the sustainability of village
    investments. However, we think that the report did not emphasize enough the following
    aspects:

        l Regarding the functionality of the ADCs: The creation of the ADCs by the project has
             allowed the establishment of a new relationship between the ADCs' leaders and the
             different public and private partners at regional level. The ADCs have become real
             partners and are well acknowledged as such at all administrative levels: communal,
             departmental and regional.

        l About the sustainability of investments managed by the ADCs through the capacity
             building of the MDRE's Regional Directorates: All implementing technicians in the 9
             regions covered by the project have been trained in various disciplines and are now
             able to assist the ADCs even after the close of the project.

        l Concerning the deficiency of the M&E system: This aspect was not given adequate
             attention during project preparation and was then overlooked.          The project was
             expected to build the M&E system progressively during implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Table 1 Village Investments


                                                  - 17 -

Village Investments                       Number of Quantity   Unit    Total Cost   IDA (US$)    Beneficiary  Benef. Contrib.
                                           villages                      (US$)                   Contribution    /total
                                                                                                   (US$)

Land and Water Conservation
Construction and Rehabilitation of dykes     20            34     unit   $1,474,029   $1,068,519     $405,509         27.5%
Thresholds of deceleration                    7          102      unit    $668,533     $661,851         $6,682         1.0%
Water reserves                                3             6     unit      $10,060      $10,060            $0         0.0%
Small Dams Intensification                    3          210       Ha     $158,621       $90,077       $68,543        43.2%
Village gardens                              217           54      Ha     $430,986     $355,346        $75,640        17.6%
Seeds of rainfed cultures                    100           14    tons       $56,495      $56,495            $0         0.0%
Horticultural Perimeters Tests                8             8      Ha       $82,452      $82,452            $0         0.0%
"Mises en défens" and Afforestation          144       3,470       Ha    $3,692,080   $1,487,234   $2,204,845         59.7%
Firebreak                                    99       11,170      Km      $357,656     $357,656      $160,159         44.8%

Infrastructures and Equipments
Hydraulic Prospections                       67            67   Prosp       $79,186      $79,186            $0         0.0%
Construction and Rehabilitation of wells     65            70     unit    $780,632     $642,211      $138,421         17.7%
Water Conveyance                              8             8     unit    $621,274     $512,432      $108,842         17.5%
Pumps                                         5             5     unit    $108,744     $108,744             $0         0.0%
Acquisition of plough                        84        1,744      unit    $259,605     $234,870        $24,734         9.5%
Carts                                        110         566      unit      $82,302      $82,302            $0         0.0%
Fence for agricultural zones                 79       12,841       Ha    $1,776,963   $1,296,813     $480,150         27.0%
Parks of vaccination                         74            74     unit   $1,051,981    $813,393      $238,588         22.7%
Health facilities                             5             5     unit    $279,413     $279,413             $0         0.0%
Classrooms                                   16            32     unit    $234,091     $234,091             $0         0.0%

Micro-enterprises (Working Capital)
Veterinary Deposits                          66            66     unit    $102,226     $102,226             $0         0.0%
Grain Mills                                  185         185      unit   $1,136,275    $577,229      $559,046         49.2%
Village Stores (Community Shops)             63            63     unit    $484,993     $262,800      $222,193         45.8%
Oil Press                                    20            20     unit       $8,699       $8,699            $0         0.0%
Draft Oxen & Dairy Goats                      5          420      unit      $42,548      $42,548            $0         0.0%
Total                                       295          NA             $14,140,000   $9,446,647   $4,693,353         33.2%


Note: $1=UM211.
Total cost and percentage may not agree with cost table data (Annex 2) because of currency conversion.


Table 2. Village investments and duration of project support
                                                                            Years in Project support
      Investments and activities                                   1 year         2 - 3 years        4 - 5
                                                                                                 yearsTotal
      Number of villages                                              25              178          92295
      Total investment in micro-projects (UM Million)                 224           1,721        1,0472,991
      Number of activities                                            112             895        5441,551
      Activity / village                                              4                5               65
      Average investment/village (UM Million)                         9               10            1110
      Average investment/village ('000 USD)                           42              46            5448
      Percent of villages                                             8%             60%         31%100%




                                                            - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                                                 Key Performance Indictors
Project Development Objective         Outcome/Impact Indicator        Appraisal Estimates               Actual ICR Estimates
                                    Increased yields                       N/D (not determined)    Sorghum yield with project
                                                                                                   800kg/ha and 100 kg/ha without
                                                                                                   project
                                  Increased income                                  50%           Large positive NPV and ERR
                                                                                                  (annex 3)
                                  Reduced soil erosion                          50 cm/year        Substantial reduction in areas with
                                                                                                  soil conservation investment based
                                                                                                  on qualitative observation during
                                                                                                  missions
                                  Empowerment of local
                                  communities:                                      N/D
                                     - reduced frequency of external                              Significant reduction in
                                  and internal conflicts                                          crop/animals conflicts where
                                                                                                  agricultural land is protected

                                   - women participate in decision                                ADC council includes at least one
                                                                                                  woman
                                                                                                  Two ADCs are led by women
                                  Number of beneficiaries                         75,000          120,000
  Project Component Outputs               Outputs Indicators          Appraisal Estimates          Actual ICR Estimates
      A. Village investments        Number of investments:
                                    Land and water conservation      N/D (demand-driven)           600
                                    Infrastructure and equipment     N/D (demand-driven)           900
                                     Other (micro-enterprises)       N/D (demand-driven)           750

                                    Sustainability of equipment                                    Over 75%

                                    O&M fees collected                                             O&M included in user price

                                    % micro-enterprise funds                                       All beneficiaries' contributions
                                    reimbursed                                                     paid (matching grants)


B. Strengthening of Public Support  Community organization
                                      Number of ADCs created          250                          295
                                      Effective organization          N/D                          31% solid performers, 61%
                                                                                                   average, 8% weak

                                    Improved legal framework for      ADC wit legal status         ADC's legal status provides
                                    local empowerment :                                            legal framework for access to
                                                                                                   resources
                                    Technical support to
                                    communities
                                      Adoption rate of message        N/D                          High (0ver 80%)
                                      % time spent in field by        10 days per month            15 days per month
                                    project staff
                                                                                                   Support to Regional Delegations
                                    Technical support to              N/D                          to assist communities
                                    Government
C. Skills Development               Technical assistance and
                                    research                          N/D                          Detailed annual work programs
                                    Annual action plans                                            and budgets contracted with
                                                                                                   agencies
                                    Training and public awareness                                  Modules for planning,
                                    Training modules                                               procurement, activity
                                                                                                   implementation designed
                                       Seminars/workshops                                          822 village-seminars
                                       Radio/TV programs                                           123 radio and 39 hrs TV
                                                                                                   programs
                                    Improving rural statistics
                                    Methodology (Sample survey)       Developed                    Methodology developed
                                       Action plan                    Produced                     Annual surveys are now




                                                                   - 19 -

                                                                                          conducted
Project components                 Project inputs                  Appraisal Estimates    Actual ICR Estimates
A. Village Investments             Component cost                  $17.40 M               $14.14 M
B. Strengthening of Public Support Component Cost                  $4.10 M                $5.60 M

                                   Number of project implementing
                                   staff
                                   At central level (UCPG)         11                     18
                                   At Regional level               64                     64
                                   Village support agents (AVB)    19                     75
C. Skill development               Component Cost                  $1.60 M                $3.10 M




                                                                - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal       Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                              Estimate          Estimate           Appraisal
                       Component                             US$ million       US$ million
Village Investment                                              17.40               14.14                  81
Strengthening of Public Sector                                    4.10               5.60                 137
Skills Development                                                1.60               3.10                 194

Total Baseline Cost                                             23.10               22.84
  Price Contingencies                                             2.70
                          Total Project Costs                   25.80               22.84
                   Total Financing Required                     25.80               22.84


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                    2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.70              8.40            0.00              9.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.70)            (8.40)          (0.00)            (9.10)
2. Goods                            1.20            2.00              1.10            0.00              4.30
                                   (1.20)          (2.00)            (1.10)          (0.00)            (4.30)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00              0.00            1.90              1.90
(consultants, training and         (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)          (1.90)            (1.90)
studies)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00              0.00            6.90              6.90
(Village labor contribution)       (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00              0.00            0.60              0.60
(Beneficiary cash                  (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)
contribution)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00              2.70            0.40              3.10
(incremental operating cost        (0.00)          (0.00)            (2.70)          (0.00)            (2.70)
and seconded staff)
   Total                            1.20            2.70             12.20            9.80             25.90
                                   (1.20)          (2.70)           (12.20)          (1.90)           (18.00)
The PDS does not allow for the same number of lines as used in the Staff Appraisal Report, leading to the
cumulation of certain categories.




                                                - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               7.03              2.41             0.00              9.44
                                           (0.00)             (7.03)            (2.41)           (0.00)            (9.44)
   2. Goods                                 0.30               0.09              1.35             0.00              1.74
                                           (0.30)             (0.09)            (1.35)           (0.00)            (1.74)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              2.64             0.00              2.64
   (consultants, training and              (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.64)           (0.00)            (2.64)
   studies)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             4.85              4.85
   (Village labor contribution)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.58              0.58
   (Beneficiary cash                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
   contribution)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              3.30             0.29              3.59
   (incremental operating cost             (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.30)           (0.00)            (3.30)
   and seconded staff)
       Total                                0.30               7.12              9.70             5.72              22.84
                                           (0.30)             (7.12)            (9.70)           (0.00)           (17.12)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services of contracted staff of the
       project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA         Govt.       CoF.       IDA      Govt.    CoF.
Village Investment             11.76         0.00         7.79        8.56         0.00       5.43       72.8       0.0    69.7
Strengthening of Public         4.04         0.53         0.00        5.48         0.29       0.00      135.6      54.7     0.0
Sector
Skills Development              1.77         0.00         0.00        3.08         0.00       0.00      174.0       0.0     0.0
TOTAL                          17.62         0.53         7.79       17.12         0.29       5.43       97.2      54.7    69.7

   Note: The cost (0.50, IDA-funded) of the dropped component "Pastoral Pilot Program" has been added to
   village investment




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Illustrative analysis of selected village investment activities

Economic Return on Total Investment (USD million)
Activity                               Investment     NPV       Population  ERR
Small dams                               $0.159      $8.067      1.218       NP
Bunds (water harvesting)                 $1.474      $0.989      8,120      25%
Arabic gum (reforestation)               $3.692      $2.525      58,464     25%
Village gardens                          $0.431      $10.049     88,102      NP

Note: NPV @ 10% over 15 years
NP: Not Pertinent computation (Extremely high positive rates)

Financial Returns on Beneficiaries' Contribution (USD million)
Activity                               Investment     NPV       Population   IRR
Small dams                               $0.069      $8.149      1,218       NP
Bunds (water harvesting)                 $0.406      $1.961      8,120      >500%
Arabic gum (reforestation)               $2.205      $3.877      58,464     52%
Village gardens                          $0.076      $10.398     88,120      NP
Village stores                           $0.222      $0.114      25,578     21%




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/09/1995                1    Team Leader
                                        2    Institutional Spec. Consultants
                                        1    Economist, Consultant
                                        1    Sr. Economist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/22/1997                1    Team Leader
                                        1    Legal
                                        1    Agricultural Services Specialist




              05/03/1997                1    Team Leader
                                        1    Legal
                                        1    Procurement Specialist
                                        1    NRM Specialist

 Supervision

              02/21/1997                2    TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL                S               S
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPEC (1)
              10/09/1998                2    TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL                S               S
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPEC (1)
              05/25/1999                2    NRM SPC. TEAM LEADER (1);             S               S
                                             RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1)
              05/25/2000                1    NRM SPECIALIST/TL (1)                 S               S
              04/13/2001                7    SR NAT. RESOURCE MGMT                 S               S
                                             (1); NAT. RESOURCE MGMT
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1); AG.
                                             SERVICES SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FMS (1); AG. EXTENSION
                                             (1)

              04/04/2002                1
                                        1    Agricultural Services Specialist
                                        1    NRM Specialist/Consultant
                                        1    Agriculturist/Research and
                                        1    Development/Consultant
                                             Monitoring and
                                        1    Evaluation/Consultant
                                             Financial Management



                                              - 24 -

                                            Specialist/Consultatnt
               11/26/2002              1    Team Leader
                                       1    Agricultural Services Specialist
                                       1    NRM Specialist FAO/CP
                                       1    Social Aspects - FAO/Consultant
                                       1    Monitoring and Evaluation -
                                            FAO/Consultant

 ICR
               06/30/2003             1     Ag. Services Specialist
                                      1     Sr. Ag. Economist
                                      1     Sr. Procurement Specialist
                                      1     Procurement Officer
                                      1     Disbursement Assistant
                                      1     Team Assistant
                                      1     Language Program Assistant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             112                              326
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    45                             138
  Supervision                            120                              324
  ICR                                      10                               29
  Total                                  287                              817




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.Mid-Term Review documents
2. ICR Mission Aide-memoire August 29, 2003
3. Social Impact Evaluation (C. Toure, Consultant) - March 2002
4. Borrower's Contribution: Rapport d'achévement du projet - July 2003
5. PCD for Community-Based Rural Development Project
6. Project files (preparation, appraisal, supervision reports, and correspondence)
7. Economic and financial Analysis - Sept. 2003




                                                     - 28 -

- 29 -

