Document of
FIL E G G p ^uThe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2225-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
February 14, 1978
This document has a restricted distibution nd m-y be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1        =    P 7.40
P 1         =    US$0.135
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ABD         -  Asian Development Bank
DAR         -  Department of Agriculture
DOH         -  Department of Health
NIA         -  National Irrigation Administration
NISIP:  II  -  National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:  II
NISIS       -  National Irrigation Systems Improvement Study
SCC         -  Schistosomiasis Control Council
SPO         -  Spectial Projects Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 3 pages
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT II
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:         Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:      National Irrigation Administration (NIA)
Amount:           $65.0 million equivalent
Terms:            The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of 5 years, at an interest rate of 7.45% per annum.
Relendina Terms:  The Government will relend the proceeds of the loan to NIA
on the same terms as those of the Bank loan.
Prolect
Description:    The proposed project would support the Government's objec-
tives of achieving self-sufficiency in rice, increasing
incomes of poor farmers, and providing for better regional
balance in the Philippines' development effort at a capital
cost of $3,000 per benefited farm family. The project
would increase yields and farm incomes on about 80,900 ha
in Southern Luzon, the Western Visayas and in Mindanao by
providing better water control and improved drainage. Rice
production would increase from about 234,000 tons of paddy
at present to an estimated 516,000 tons at full development
in 1988. Approximately 45,000 farm families and 11,500
landless laborers' families, a total of about 316,000
people, most of whom are below the poverty line, would
benefit directly from increased production and subsequent
employment. In Mindanao, it would provide for a control
program in four schistosomiasis affected irrigation systems.
The main risk concerns the availability at the right levels
and at right time of the entire package of agricultural
supporting services. The project provides measures to
minimize this risk. An additional possible risk would be
failure to properly maintain the irrigation facilities.
The project also provides measures to minimize this risk.
Thuis document has a triobed distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 3 pages
Estimated Cost:
Foreign
Local        Foreign        Total       Exchange
-- US$ Million ---------                   ()
Irrigation works                36.4          35.4          71.8         45
Strengthening of
O&M capability                0.6            2.7           3.3         78
Input-output monitoring          1.0           0.5           1.5         27
Schistosomiasis control
program                       2.3            2.2           4.5         47
Feasibility studies              2.0           2.8           4.8         60
Engineering, administra-
tion and supervision          8.0             -            8.0          -
Base cost estimate        50.3          43.6           93.9         46
Physical contingencies           6.7           5.4          12.1         45
Expected price increases        18.0          16.0          34.0         46
Total project cost        75.0          65.0          140.0         46
Financing Plan:               Government             Bank             Total
-------------- US$ Million -------------
Irrigation systems                36.4              35.4               71.8
Strengthening of regional
O&M capability                   0.6               2.7                3.4
Input-output monitoring            1.0               0.5                1.6
Schistosomiasis control
program                          2.3               2.7                5.7
Feasibility studies                2.0               3.1                5.3
Engineering administration
and supervision                  8.0                 -                8.0
Physical contingencies             6.7               5.4               12.1
Price increases                   18.0              16.0               34.0
Total                       75.0               65.0             140.0



Page 3 of 3 pages
Estimated
Disbursements:
Annual            Cumulative
Bank's Fiscal year    disbursements         disbursements
…------------------ US$ million ----------------…--
1979                 0.3                0.3
1980                 9.7               10.0
1981                13.0               23.0
1982                15.0               38.0
1983                13.0               51.0
1984                11.0               62.0
1985                 3.0               65.0
Rate of Return:           The economic rate of return of the project is 24%.
Appraisal Report:         No. 1785b-PH dated February 1, 1978.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A SECOND NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for an equivalent of US$65 million.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 7.45% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977 and
its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH of
October 26, 1977) was distributed to the Executive Directors under Secretary's
Memorandum PHL77-22 on October 27, 1977. A basic economic report, entitled
The Philippines: Priorities and Prospects for Development, was previously
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976 (SecM/76/366).
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippines' economy grew in real terms
at an annual rate of about 5-1/2%. However, the rate of growth was less
than what might have been achieved if its considerable natural and human
resources had been utilized more effectively. The benefits of growth were
also distributed relatively unevenly. The growth of productive employment
opportunities failed to keep pace with the growth of the public expenditure
for necessary infrastructure and social services. Poor export performance
combined with a failure to reduce the import dependence of domestic industry
resulted in a chronic weakness of the balance of payments.
4.        The growth of the Philippine economy accelerated slightly to an
annual rate of 6% during 1970-75. Fluctuations, however, were significant.
In the period 1970-72, when the effects of a balance of payments stabilization
program initiated in 1970 were being felt, the economy grew less rapidly
at 52 per year, exports and imports of goods and services were roughly equal,
and the shares of public and private fixed investment in GNP were stable.
/1 This part of the Report is the same as the Report on Fifth Private Develop-
ment Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) Credit Project (see M/R78-14),
which was considered by the Executive Directors on January 31, 1978.



-2-
Economic performance was exceptional in 1973 when real GNP grew by almost
10% and the current account registered a substantial surplus as sharply
higher prices for traditional export commodities stimulated demand and
agricultural production rebounded strongly from the natural disasters of the
previous year. The export-led income boom of 1973 was followed by an
investment boom. The resulting high investment rate together with favorable
sugar prices temporarily sheltered the economy from the impact of the oil
price increase in late 1973 and the following world recession, and real GNP
growth was sustained at 6% in 1974-75. However, the collapse of sugar prices
in late 1975, following earlier declines in the prices of other major export
commodities, changed the external situation dramatically. The terms of trade
dropped by 23% in 1975; and the current account recorded a deficit equal to
6% of GNP.
5.        In 1976-77, the economy, led by exports and construction, has
continued to grow at 6% per year. Exports (GNFS) increased by 19% in real
terms in 1976 and are estimated to have risen by 11% in 1977. Unfortunately
until 1977 the stimulus of the expansion in export volume was largely offset
by further deterioration in the terms of trade. Inflation, which reached a
peak of 40% in 1974 as a result of externally generated pressure on domestic
prices, has slowed to an average of about 7% because of the deceleration in
international inflation and a conservative monetary-fiscal policy.
Investment and Savings
6.        Due largely to the buoyant export performance in 1973 and the
subsequent increase in incomes, investment boomed in 1974-75. Private
investment rose from 14% of GNP in the early 1970s to 20% in 1975. Public
investment was raised from 2% to 4% of GNP with the growth in revenue from
international trade taxes, improvements in tax administration, and improved
project implementation capacity. Subsequently, public investment has been
raised further to an estimated level of 6 1/2% of GNP in 1977. The private
investment rate, on the other hand, has fallen somewhat to an estimated 18%
of GNP but still is well over the 14% average of the early 1970s. However,
the high incremental capital-output ratio, the relatively modest growth of
manufacturing output and employment, and the structural underutilization of
capacity in some industries suggest that the efficiency of investment needs
to be improved.
7.       Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. In 1976-77, gross domestic savings maintained the level of 25%
of GNP achieved in 1975 and financed about 80% of total investment, with the
balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the efficiency of
financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors, the Govern-
ment has made significant improvements in financial policy (for details, see
paras. 32 through 35). Organized banking institutions have been strengthened.
Interest rates were restructured in 1976 to encourage a greater flow of
financial savings into time and savings deposits relative to short-term
deposit substitutes, but further reforms are required to increase the avail-
ability of long-term domestic currency resources. Special credit programs



- 3 -
have been adopted to expand lending to the credit short agricultural sector
and rural areas and to serve the needs of medium and small scale industries.
However, a deterioration of loan recovery rates has been experienced by all
government financial institutions and credit programs, creating a difficult
policy dilemma. On the one hand, the programs have become costly means of
achieving their ojectives, and the growth of arrears reduces the overall
efficiency of resource mobilization and allocation. On the other hand, the
programs do redress imbalances in the availability of credit so that arrears
have to be reduced without closing necessary credit channels.
Government Expenditures and Revenues
8.        Public expenditures and revenues have historically claimed a much
smaller share of national resources in the Philippines than in many other
developing countries. In the early 1970s, general government expenditure
averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly low at about 2%
of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were
dominated by general administration and social services, particularly
education. This situation had resulted from a variety of factors including
difficulties in raising tax revenue and weak implementation capacity in the
public sector. Since the early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to
correct the situation and raise both the overall level of expenditures and
the share going to economic services and public investment. By 1977 govern-
ment expenditures had reached an estimated 18% of GNP and public investment,
which has risen very rapidly in the last two years, equaled about 6-1/2% of GNP.
9.        Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. In the short term, needed revenues were raised
through revision in indirect taxes. In the long term, structural changes are
to be made to raise the built-in elasticity of the tax system, to reduce distor-
tions in economic incentives and dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade, and to improve equity by increasing the proportion of
revenues coming from direct taxes. The Government has increased the ratio of
domestic taxes to GNP by an impressive 1.5 percentge points between 1975 and
1977 through new tax measures and vigorous efforts to improve tax payer compli-
ance and collection performance. However, much of the success in mobilizing
revenue from domestic sources had been offset by a sharp decline in the yield
of export taxes and import duties due to cyclical fluctuations. Total tax
revenues, which had been raised from 11% of GNP to 13.6% by 1975, rose to
only an estimated 14.1% in 1977.  Greater resource mobilization by government
corporations whose investment programs have grown rapidly is also needed.
Agriculture
10.       Despite fairly good soils and a relatively literate rural population,
agricultural yields in the Philippines are among the lowest in Asia. Possible
reasons for this enigma are the low quantity and quality of irrigation facili-
ties and high vulnerability to weather risks; land tenure patterns; and weak
agricultural credit extension and other supporting services. Agricultural
production has, nevertheless, grown at an average rate of 4.4% per year in



- 4 -
the 1970s. The performance of the sector was strong in 1976 and 1977, as
production increased by 7% and the country was able to provide for rice and
corn consumption solely from domestic production. The Phi1lppines has b-en
virtually self-sufficient in rice for the past three years. If this trend
continues, prospects for sustained self-sufficiency in this main staple of
the country appear to be good. The Government continues to give the highest
priority to agricultural development and has initiated a number of programs
designed to increase the use of fertilizer, credit and irrigation. It has
also greatly expanded programs to improve living conditions in rural areas,
including rural electrification, health and family planning, and rural roads.
11.       For historical reasons, land ownership in the Philippines is
inequitably distributed.  The land transfer program, which has been in opera-
tion for five years, proceeded quite rapidly when larger land holdings in the
rice and corn areas covered by the program were the focus of concentration,
but progress has been slower recently because of the greater difficulties
inherent in dealing with a large number of medium-sized, often middle-class,
landowners. As of June 1977, an estimated 120,000 tenants, or 30% of the
total tenants under the program, had received Certificates of Land Transfer
which established their claim to the land. Despite the difficulties in the
process of implementation, the transfer program remains an important part of
the Government's rural development strategy.
Industry
12.       During the 1960s, Philippine industrialization was promoted by
tariff protection and subsidized finance, and consequently industrial growth
was primarily in the area of import-substitution with a high capital intensity.
Performance was disappointing with respect to employment and exports. In the
early 1970s the Government floated the exchange rate and introduced policy
changes to reduce tariffs and realign industrial incentives. Further efforts
to reduce biases in favor of import substitution and capital intensity are
needed to sustain a higher level of industrial growth, which has averaged
around 8% during the 1970s. Due to the slow growth in national income and
demand because of the decline in the terms of trade in the last two years,
manufacturing output has also grown slowly. On the other hand, industries
producing nontraditional exports have expanded rapidly as their exports
increased almost fivefold in the four-year period 1973-76. The construction
industry has also grown rapidly as the expansion of relatively construction-
intensive public investment and large tourism investment in the Manila area
raised construction expenditure from 6% of GNP in the early 1970s to 12% in
1976.
Employment, Incomes and Population
13.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-76, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. Particularly
noteworthy was the growth of employment in manufacturing, which essentially
stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 8% annually during 1975/76, resulting
in part from the growth of labor-intensive production for export. However,
because manufacturing's share of total employment is small, agriculture and
services continue to function as residual sources of employment and accounted
for most of the growth in total employment.



-5-
14.       Preliminary survey data show that the share of income received by
the poorest 40% of families, which remained constant during the 1961-71
period, increased from 12% in 1971 to 15% in 1975. The income share of the
top 20% of families remained about the same as in 1971, while that of middle
income families declined somewhat. Due to the improvement in agriculture's
terms of trade, the growth of agricultural production, the decline in urban
real wages following the devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial
employment until 1975, the ratio of the average rural income to the average
urban income rose from 48% in 1971 to 57% in 1975. Real per capita consumption
increased by about 2% annually in 1971-75. Hence, after allowance for price
increases, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the poor live, have
probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have remained about the
same.
15.       The population is estimated at 43.3 million in 1976 and is currently
growing at 2.7% as compared to a 3.0% growth rate during the 1960s. The
Philippines has an active family planning program registering approxmately
650,000 new acceptors per year. Although the number of new acceptors has
reached a plateau as the program faces the increasingly difficult problem of
reaching rural areas, the estimated proportion of married women of reproductive
age practicing family planning increased from 20% in 1974 to 25% in 1977.
Development Strategy
16.       The Government's objectives and policies for the period 1978-82
have recently been set out in a five-year plan, which calls for an accelerating
economic growth first to 7% and then to 8%. The development strategy focuses
on an expansion of more productive employment opportunities at a rate of
3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities, greater self-sufficiency in
food and energy, strengthening of the balance of payments and increased
development in rural areas. In addition, the plan includes strategies for
development in each of the country's thirteen regions. In general, the
strategies outlined in the plan represent an elaboration of the policy
directions pursued by the Government in recent years. They are also broadly
consistent with the Bank's basic economic report although investment,
manufacturing output, and exports are projected to grow more rapidly than
visualized two years ago. It should be feasible to accelerate the overall
growth rate to 7% as the terms of trade stabilize, but more rapid expansion
of manufacturing is necessary to do so, and effort needs to focus on improving
the efficiency of investment.
External Sector
17.       Largely as the result of a 23% decline in the terms of trade, the
current account of the Philippine balance of payments recorded a deficit of
$900 million, or 6% of GNP, in 1975. To maintain the momentum of growth and
investment, the Government drew down its international reserves, obtained
loans under various IMF facilities, and expanded its borrowing program to
finance necessary imports. For the longer term, a strategy was adopted of
accelerating export growth both to hold the current account deficit about
constant, while it declined relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.



18.       Some progress in this direction was made in the last two years.
In 1976, in spite of a further 11% deterioration in the terms of trade, a
substantial increase in export volume and slow growth of import payments
narrowed the trade deficit and partly offset the higher net interest payments.
Although somewhat larger than in 1975, the current account deficit stabilized
at $1.1 billion or 6% of GNP. Net capital inflows were nearly doubled to
$1.1 billion. Most of the inflow was from medium and long-term loans, two
thirds of which were public loans reflecting in part increased disbursements
from official sources. Estimates for 1977 show a further substantial expan-
sion in export volume which, with little expected change in the terms of
trade, import volume, services or transfers, would reduce the current account
deficit to 4% of GNP. Hence, on the whole, the balance of payments position
has strengthened significantly.
19.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
period 1978-82, imports will have to grow faster than they have recently and
a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year will be required.
Assuming continued sound debt management and the maintenance of a balanced
maturity structure of foreign borrowings, the overall level of external debt
of the Philippines is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio
of debt service payments to exports and nonfactor services would average about
19%, of which 7% would be public debt service, during the rest of this decade.
In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensurate with
the level of development expenditures which will be required during 1978-82
and that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits, the Govern-
ment sought commitments of official assistance of $750-800 million in 1978 at
the meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines held in Tokyo on
December 1 and 2, 1977.  This amount is likely to be available.  Many of the
planned projects have a low foreign exchange component. In these circumstances
it is necessary to finance some local costs, in appropriate cases, so that the
Philippines external financing requirements could be met.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
20.       By January 31, 1978, the Philippines had received 50 Bank lnans ;'`
(of which two were on Third Window terms) and three IDA credits for a .rc -ai O 
$1,297.8 million, net of cancellations. About one-third of Bank lending
($465.4 million) has been for infrastructure projects in power, transporta-
tion, and water supply and another third ($428.4 million) has been for
agriculture. Of the remainder, $278.4 million has been for industry and
$125.6 million has been for social sector projects in education, population
and urban development. There has been a marked improvement in the executioa
of Bank-financed projects in the last four years compared with experience ti.
the 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of pesc
counterpart funds and poor administration. All ongoing projects are now
being implemented reasonably well.  Annex II contains a summary statemen,: £f
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of December 31,1977, and rctes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
/1 Including the $30 million for the Fifth Private Development Corporation
of the Philippines, which was approved on January 31, 1978.



21.       The Bank's lending program has been designed to continue to support
the Philippine development effort with its emphasis on agriculture and infra-
structure and its growing attention to the needs of lower income groups. More
than 40% of Bank lending planned for the next few years would be for agricul-
ture and rural development projects and about a quarter would be for needed
basic infrastructure projects, mainly in the fields of transportation and power.
The amount of lending for social sector projects, including education, popula-
tion and urban development, is expected to continue to grow rapidly and account
for more than 15% of future lending. The balance of future lending would be
for industrial development, where growing attention is being given to the needs
of small and medium industries with high employment potential. The rapid
growth in public revenues during the past five years has allowed for a
significant expansion in public investment and both the ambitious Philippine
development program and the Bank's growing lending program have been designed
to meet the country's substantial future needs. In view of the per capita
income of the Philippines, its level of external debt, and the generally good
management of the economy, a limited amount of IDA financing will be proposed
in the Bank Group's overall lending to the Philippines.
22.       This is the third loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
in FY78. Loans for rural infrastructure, rural electrification, a multipurpose
irrigation and power project, education and two for industrial finance projects
are expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors within
the next few months.
23.       As of December 31, 1977, IFC had made commitments in the Philippines
totalling $86.3 million for investment in 16 projects in the fields of develop-
ment banking, power, telecommunications, ceramic tiles, petroleum products,
nickel mining and refining, chemicals and synthetic fibres and edible oils.
Of these investments, $35.7 million had been sold, cancelled and repaid, leaving
a net portfolio of $50.6 million, including $5.0 million undisbursed.
24.       At present the share of the Bank Group in the Philippines' total
external debt disbursed and outstanding is about 11% and its share in debt
service is about 5%. These ratios are expected to increase to around 19% and
8% by the end of the present decade.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
25.       Agriculture is the predominant sector in the Philippine economy,
accounting for about one third of net domestic product, over one half of total
employment, and nearly three quarters of export earnings. Over 70% of the
9 million ha of land under cultivation is used for the production of cereals,
of which rice and corn are the most important. The remaining land is taken up
by the major export crops: sugar, coconuts, abaca, pineapples, and tobacco.
26.       The performance of the agricultural sector will be crucial in deter-
mining whether the Philippines can increase incomes both rapidly and equitably.
At present, the domestic market for industrial products is limited by relatively
low rural incomes.  Although in recent years there has been a substantial change
in the terms of trade in favor of agriculture, the problems of poverty and income



- 8 -
distribution continue to be particularly acute in rural areas; of the 15 mil-
lion people in the lowest 40Z of the income scale, 12 million live in rural
areas. The Government is aware of these problems and, as noted in para. it,
has initiated a number of programs designed to assist the rural poor.
27.       A major Government objective is to increase rice and corn produc-
tion as a means of raising the incomes of small farmers and of attaining
national self-sufficiency in food grains. After experiencing substantial
deficits in the early 1970s, rice production grew by 5% p.a. during crop
years 1974-77 and the Philippines was able to provide for consumption solely
from domestic production during the crop years 1975-77. The good performance
in the past three years has been due mainly to a recovery in yields brought
about by favorable weather, expansion of the irrigation systems and au
increase in the area planted. With the continued growth of population and
incomes, the demand for rice will rise by 3.5% annually. If rice production
is to increase at a rate sufficient to maintain self-sufficiency on a sustained
basis, further expansion of the irrigated area will be necessary. At present,
only 0.9 million ha, or 25% of the 3.2 million ha devoted to rice production,
is irrigated. However, the Government is in the process of reviewing its
policies with respect to food and feed grain production; a Bank mission is
currently in the field to assist the Government in reviewing the longer term
supply and demand situation and the implication of this for future policies
for the agricultural sector.
28.       The Government recognizes that in order to increase production in
both irrigated and nonirrigated areas substantial improvements in the quality
of supporting services will be necessary. In 1973, the Government instituted
a national program for supervised credit for rice production, Masagana 99,
which greatly increased the provision of production credit, mainly to smaller
farmers. However, the levels of arrears under the program have been very high
in the last several years and as a result the coverage of the program has
declined sharply. The Government is aware of this problem and the Technical
Board for Agricultural Credit is undertaking a study of the causes of the
high arrears under Loan 1399-PH (Fourth Rural Credit Project) which will be
discussed with Bank staff in early 1978 with a view to reaching agreement on
the steps necessary to reduce arrears and maintain the flow of production
credit.
29.       The Government is also considering the steps necessary to bring
about needed improvements in the national extension service. A Bank technical
assistance mission visited the Philippines in April 1977 and a report has been
given to the Philippine Government which suggests a number of organizational
improvements and better logistical support in the form of training, vehicles
and other facilities. Missions are currently in the Philippines to appraise a
national extension project for possible Bank financing and to help the Govern-
ment prepare a comprehensive program for strengthening support services
(provision of credit, extension, marketing facilities, fertilizer, seeds, and
crop protection).
30.       Of the 0.9 million ha riceland irrigated in the Philippines, half
is served by the National Irrigation Administration (NIA). The balance
consists of very small communal irrigation systems under the control



-9-
of farmers irrigation service associations. The major focus of the Govern-
ment's irrigation program in the past has been on large-scale gravity systems.
Since the late 1960s the NIA, with the assistance of the Bank and the Asian
Development Bank (ADB), has been engaged in upgrading and extending large
national systems. Particular attention has been given to the rehabilitation
and new construction of canals and structures, the provision of better drainage
and access, and the introduction of water management and rotational irrigation
practices.  Additional water supply is being provided in some areas through
the construction of storage dams or by transbasin diversion. In order to
provide a basis for improving the badly deteriorated but essential smaller
systems scattered throughout the Philippines, a National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Study (NISIS) was financed under Loan 1080-PH to inventory the
systems and to select a total of about 150,000 ha with the highest priority
for improvement, allowing for a balanced regional distribution. All national
irrigation systems were inventoried and evaluated on the basis of the degree
of need and potential for improvement, the human need in the area, and the
capabilities of NIA's regional offices. Sixty-two national irrigation systems
grouped into four packages were selected, and feasibility studies were under-
taken by NIA with the assistance of consultants. The first package making up
the National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project I (NISIP I, Loan 1414-PH),
covers 22 existing and 3 new irrigation systems for a total of 49,500 ha. The
proposed project consists of the second and part of the third packages. NIA
has also prepared a project focusing on very small communal systems which
would be financed under the loan for a rural infrastructure project scheduled
for later this year.
31.       The Bank has already financed eight irrigation projects designed to
increase rice production in the Philippines - three in Central Luzon, two in
the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon, one on Mindoro Island and one for smaller
systems throughout Northern Luzon and the Eastern Visayas./l All works have
been substantially completed on the first project, the Upper Pampanga River
Irrigation Project (UPRP, Loan 637-PH). Progress in construction of all
these projects has been satisfactory. Total cost of the first two projects
was about 70% over appraisal estimates in the case UPRP (Loan 637-PH) and 55%
in the case of Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation (Loan 984-PH and Credit 472-PH)
largely as a result of rapid inflation following the oil price increase in
late 1973. However, due to considerable increase in the projected world
market price of rice and from early diversion of water on both of these
projects, the projected rates of return on both of them have not changed
significantly. NIA's evaluation of the production results in the UPRP
service area found that yields were about 3 tons/ha which is in line with
appraisal estimates for the first year of operation. However, the evaluation
/1 The Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project (Loan 637-PH), Aurora-
Penaranda Irrigation Project (Loan 984-PH, Credit 472-PH), Tarlac Irri-
gation Systems Improvement Project (Loan 1080-PH), Mindoro Rural Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1102-PH), Magat River Multipurpose Project Stage I
(Loan 1154-PH), Chico River Irrigation Project Stage I (Loan 1227-PH),
Jalaur Irrigation Project (Loan 1367-PH), and National Irrigation Systems
Improvement Project I (Loan 1414-PH).



- 10 -
also identified deficiencies in agricultural support services, particularly
with respect to the adequacy of credit and extension services (see paras. 28
and 29). For this reason, the Government has agreed under the proposed
project to prepare a plan of action by June 30, 1979, to strengthen support
services in areas served by Bank-financed irrigation projects, and after
reviewing the plan with the Bank, to begin to implement it by January 1,
1980 (Section 3.03(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
32.       The eight Bank-financed irrigation projects have set the pattern
for the type of irrigation rehabilitation, new construction, and operations
needed for increasing rice production.  The projects are providing improved
irrigation and drainage facilities, better road systems for efficiency of
operations and maintenance and for the marketing of farm products, stronger
supporting services to assist farmers in adopting the new irrigation techniques
needed to increase production, and technical assistance and training to help
the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) expand and improve its irrigation
program. These projects, together with the project now proposed, would bring
about substantial increases in rice production on about 370,000 ha and would
benefit nearly 190,000 farmer families, most of whom are smallholders. The
incremental production from these and projects under consideration could
account for about 20% of total rice production in the Philippines by 1985.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Description
33.       The proposed project would support the Government's objectives off
achieving self-sufficiency in rice, increasing incomes of poor farmers aFn.i
providing for a better regional balance in the Philippines' development
effort at a capital cost of about $3,000 per benefited farm family. The
project would increase yields and farm incomes on about 80,900 ha in Southern
Luzon, the Western Visayas and in Mindanao by providing better water control,
improved drainage and better agricultural supporting services. In Mindanao,
it would provide for a schistosomiasis program in one of the most seriousiy
affected areas of the country. The proposed project would be the second
Bank-assisted project to assist NIA's program for improvement of the small,
widely scattered national irrigation systems located primarily in the poorer
areas of the Philippines.
34.       The proposed project was prepared by NIA with the assistance of
Sanyo Consultants Inc. of Japan, financed under the Tarlac Irrigation Project
(Loan 1080-PH). The proposed project was appraised in July 1977 and negotia-
tions were held in Manila on January 20, 1978. The Philippine delegation
was led by the Hon. A.L Juinio, Secretary of the Department of Public Works,
Transportation and Communications.  A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1785b-PW
is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.



- 11 -
The Prolect Area
35.       Of the 26 irrigation systems to be rehabilitated and expanded under
the project, 12 are located in Southern Luzon, 4 in the Western Visayas and
10 in Mindanao. Aside from 6,400 ha of sugarcane in the Western Visayas and a
small area in Mindanao, transplanted rice, irrigated and rainfed, is presently
the main crop in the project area. Negros Island in the Western Visayas is
the only rice deficit area, while all other project systems are in rice
surplus areas. Systems in the Bicol region of Southern Luzon suffer from
high population densities and small, fragmented holdings; these subprojects
and the ones in Mindanao are located in some of the poorest regions in the
country. Per capita incomes derived from farming in the areas served by the
project generally range from $26 to $126, compared to the absolute poverty
threshold income for rural areas in the Philippines in 1977 of $165 per capita.
About 45,000 farm families and 11,500 landless laborers' families live in the
project area, about 40% of which are in the Mindanao subproject area with the
balance about evenly divided between the Southern Luzon and the Western
Visayas subproject areas. The mean farm size is 1.3 ha in Southern Luzon,
1.8 ha in the Western Visayas and 2.1 ha in Mindanao.
36.       A major factor contributing to low incomes in the project areas
is low rice paddy yields which for irrigated areas average 2.6 ton/ha in
the Southern Luzon and the Western Visayas subproject areas and 2.4 ton/ha in
Mindanao. In rainfed areas, average paddy yields are 1.5 ton/ha in Southern
Luzon, 1.6 ton/ha in the Western Visayas and 1.3 ton/ha in Mindanao. A major
factor contributing to relatively low yields has been the lack of adequate
infrastructure. The existing irrigation systems which serve 53,700 ha in
the project area have seriously deteriorated due to poor initial design and
inadequate maintenance. The existing systems have poor distribution networks
which make it impossible for the majority of farmers to obtain water at the
right time and in the right amount. In addition many systems lack access
roads which renders movement of inputs and produce difficult.
37.       Since 1972, the Government has pursued a program of agrarian
reform aimed at the transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers on rice and
corn lands. Presidential Decree No 27, the basic legislation for this program,
provides for the transfer to the tenant whether sharecropper or leaseholder, of
land up to 3 ha in an irrigated area and 5 ha in a rainfed area. Under the
decree, the landlord may retain up to 7 ha if he tills the land himself. The
decree was amended in October, 1976 to provide that where the landlord has other
agricultural land of more than 7 ha or residential, commercial and urban land
from which he derives adequate income to support himself, his holdings of rice
and corn land would be reduced to less than 7 ha. Progress of land transfer is
discussed in paragraph 11. According to information of the Department of
Agrarian Reform, about 30,000 ha, or 41% of the project area, is cultivated
by about 13,000 owner operators, or 30% of the total number of farmers.
After completion of the agrarian reform program, about 48,000 ha, or 65% of
the project area, will be cultivated by about 24,000 owner operators, or
about 55% of the total number of farmers. The remaining 20,000 tenant
farmers would operate under a written lease agreement.



- 12 -
38.       There are a number of small towns scattered throughout the project
area.  Most of the irrigation systems are located close to major commercf-'
centers providing banking, storage and processing facilities, as well as
supplies of inputs to the agricultural areas. Many systems lack a good road
network especially in Aklan and Antique provinces in the Western Visayas
subproject and Surigao del Sur and Bukidnon in the Mindanao subproject.
However, the Government is currently engaged in a program of road improvement
in these areas.
Description of the Project
39.       The proposed project would consist of the following:
(a) rehabilitation of 26 existing NIA irrigation systems in 7 regions
in Southern Luzon, the Western Visayas and Mindanao serving a total
area of 53,700 ha and construction of new irrigation, drainage and
road facilities on about 27,200 ha of currently rainfed land adjoin-
ing these systems;
(b) a schistosomiasis control program on about 22,000 ha in
Mindanao, consisting of improved drainage, a diagnostic screening
program and chemotherapy for treatment of about 35,000 cases and a
health education program;
(c) the strengthening of the seven NIA Regional Offices through pro-
vision of equipment and vehicles for operation and maintenance,
buildings and staff training;
(d) expansion of NIA's input-output monitoring program for the NISIP I
and II projects to monitor the availability of farm inputs and the
production results; and
(e) feasibility studies for new irrigation projects, which are needed
to continue to expand the national irrigation program.
Project Execution
40.       NIA would be responsible for all components of the project, except
for the health aspects of the schistosomiasis control program in Mindanao,
which would be executed by the Department of Health (DOH) through the
Schistosomiasis Control and Research Service (SCRS).
41.       NIA was created in 1964 and given responsibility for developing,
operating and maintaining all national irrigation systems in the Philippines.
A board of directors is responsible for the agency and the Administrator,
who is appointed by the President of the Philippines, has executive responsi-
bility. NIA has recently been reorganized to better deal with the requirements
of the Government's policy of irrigation development. Major foreign-assisted
projects have been integrated under a Special Projects Organization (SPO)
headed by an Assistant Administrator. Before the establishment of the SPO,
most of the foreign-assisted projects were not implemented by the regular NIA
regional offices, but were entrusted to ad hoc project offices especially



- 13 -
created for the purpose. However, this project, like the first National
Irrigation Systems Improvement Project (Loan 1414-PH), would be implemented
by the regular NIA regional offices as the NISIP program covers a large
number of small systems spread widely throughout the Philippines.
42.       NIA has 11 regional offices in the country.  The offices are headed
by regional directors who are responsible for all NIA activities in the
provinces in their regions except for large foreign assisted projects assigned
to Special Projects Organization. The regional directors in the project areas
would have the immediate field responsibility for executing the project. The
Regional Directors report to the Assistant Administrator for Engineering and
Operations who has appointed a project manager assisted by two coordinators to
supervise the implementation of the NISIP I and NISIP II projects.
43.       Technical responsibility for operating and maintaining the project's
systems would be with the Operations Department in the central office and the
Operations Divisions at the regional level. At the end of construction, the
field offices would become headquarters for irrigation districts, which in
turn would be subdivided into irrigation divisions of about 2,500 ha. The
division would be controlled by a supervisor and would be subdivided into
500 ha units, each under a Water Management Technician. The Government has
agreed to operate and maintain project facilities in accordance with sound
irrigation practices (Section 4.03 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       All subproject areas are served by dealers of fertilizer and
agro-chemicals which have the capacity to handle the additional demand without
difficulty. No problems are anticipated in establishing the necessary seed
growing facilities to provide the regional quantity of seeds estimated at
6,500 tons per year at full development. The annual credit requirements for
the project are expected to total $16.5 million at full development. There
are sufficient credit institutions in the project areas to provide for credit
needs. However, there is a need to resolve the problem of arrears which has
affected the Government's supervised credit programs and to strengthen
extension and other support services. For this reason, the Government has
agreed to prepare and implement the action plan to improve support services
referred to in para. 31 of this report.
45.       Input-Output Monitoring.  A program of input-output monitoring was
established under the Chico Irrigation Project (Loan 1227-PH) with the objec-
tives of (a) monitoring the flow and build-up of farm inputs in each project
area before and during each crop season, to give NIA sufficient warning of any
shortfall and allow it to take appropriate action; and (b) monitoring the
production results in project areas. This program has been in operation in
the UPRP service area for about one year, with useful results. The program
is being carried out by the Special Projects Organization of NIA, which
coordinates closely with the National Food and Agricultural Council (NFAC).
Provision is made in the project for staff training and consultant services
to enable NIA to expand its program to cover the NISIP I and II projects.
46.       Feasibility Studies.  The Government has requested Bank financial
assistance in the preparation of feasibility studies which are needed to
continue to expand the national irrigation program. Project selection would



- 14 -
be based on Government's priorities within the sector, and would be subject to
the Bank's review. Detailed terms of reference for consulting and contractual
services for investigation of each project would be submitted to the Bank
before any of these studies are undertaken (Section 3.04 (a) and (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). A total of 320 man-months of consulting services is
included under the project to assist NIA with the studies. Provision has
also been made for surveys, mapping, geophysical and detailed geologic
studies to be carried out by contract.
47.       Schistosomiasis Control Program.  The drainage component of the
schistosomiasis program would be carried out by NIA. The Leyte subproject of
NISIP I includes a comprehensive program of drainage works and maintenance
covering the entire watershed area to help control schistosomiasis in the area.
A similar approach in the Mindanao subproject area would be very expensive, as
four separate watersheds would be involved and the proportion of total area to
be drained in relation to irrigated areas and affected population would be
very high. For the affected Mindanao irrigation systems, it is proposed to
draw up a full watershed drainage plan along similar lines as in Leyte, but to
implement the plan initially only within the boundaries of the irrigation
service areas. This would ensure a minimization of exposure to the snails
within the system, while allowing for a later extension of the drainage works,
should results both in Leyte and the service area indicate it was essential.
48.       The Schistosomiasis Control Service (SCS) of the Department of
Health (DOH), which would be responsible for monitoring the public health
aspects of the disease in the affected area, is understaffed and lacks
adequate logistical support facilities. The project would provide field
labs, equipment and vehicles and increased personnel. Provision would also
be made under the project for a health education campaign, based primarily on
the schools and barrio health centers, to alert the population to the dangers
of the disease, and to supply information on prevention and treatment.
While existing drugs do not lend themselves to a mass chemotherapy campaign,
a drug currently being tested in the Philippines shows considerable promise
in this respect, and provision would be made in the project for treatment
of about 35,000, or about two-thirds of the people estimated to be affected by
the disease. This is considered a realistic estimate of potential acceptors
of treatment. NIA and DOH would enter into a formal agreement for the
implementation of the schistosomiasis control program by June 30, 1978
(Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total project cost is estimated at $138 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $65 million, or 47% of total project costs. The Govern-
ment exempts NIA from paying taxes or duties for equipment, materials and ser-
vices procured under foreign assisted projects; so all costs exclude such
taxes. Physical contingencies of 10-20% have been applied to the base cost
estimate for civil works depending on the degree of investigation completed
for the works. A contingency of 10% was used for the O&M facilities. Price
contingencies, amounting to 24% of total project costs, have been provided on
the assumption of annual price inflation for civil works of 9% in 1978-79 and
8% in 1980-83 and for equipment and services of 7.5% in 1978-79 and 7% in 1980-83.



- 15 -
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $65 million would finance the full foreign
exchange cost. The Government would finance the balance of project costs from
budgetary resources. To help ensure the continuous and timely flow of funds,
the Government and NIA would establish before the effectiveness of the pro-
posed loan a special fund to service the project, which would be replenished
by the Government at monthly intervals to a level equivalent to the estimated
requirement for the next two months (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
51.       Contracts for the supply of equipment and materials, costing about
$18.6 million, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. For purposes of bid
comparison, local manufacturers would receive a preference of 15% or the
level of customs duties, whichever is lower. Off-the-shelf items costing
less than $10,000 each would be procured through local shopping because any
advantage of international competitive bidding would be clearly outweighed by
administrative costs involved. The total cost of such items would not exceed
$300,000. Civil works ($76.0 million), which would be scattered over 26 sep-
arate locations in 7 different regions, include rehabilitation of 53,700 ha,
extension of facilities for 27,200 ha, main and secondary drains for the
schistosomiasis control program and buildings. These works would have to be
planned and executed on short notice to avoid the growing season and bad
weather and would have to be phased with irrigation releases. These contracts
would, therefore, not be suitable for international competitive bidding. As
the irrigation systems involve relatively small works in inaccessible areas,
it would also in some cases be difficult to attract local bidders, particularly
outside of Luzon. For this reason, it is proposed that NIA be allowed to
undertake by force account civil works constituting up to 65% of the total
cost of civil works under the project. The balance of civil works would be
carried out on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with local
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Foreign firms would be eligible
to participate (Schedule 4, para. B.1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursements
52.       The Bank loan would be disbursed for 100% of the foreign exchange
cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the ex-factory price of locally
manufactured equipment and 65% of the cost of imported equipment procured
locally. Disbursements for civil works would be made for 30% of certified
monthly progress payments or expenditures. For civil works contractors'
mobilization and equipment, the Bank loan would be disbursed for 100% of the
foreign exchange cost. Disbursements for consulting services would be at the
rate of 100% of total cost. It is expected that disbursements would be
completed by December 31, 1984, approximately one year after the end of
construction.
Cost Recovery
53.       NIA is authorized to collect fees from users of irrigation systems
to finance the costs of operation and maintenance and to recover construction
costs. Irrigation fees on national irrigation systems were raised in July 1975



- 16 -
to the equivalent of 2.0 cavans (100 kg) of paddy per ha in the wet season and
3.0 cavans (150 kg) in the dry season, to be applied uniformly to all national
irrigation systems. The level of investment and hence the irrigation facilities
and services in Bank-assisted projects would be far higher than in the rest of
the national systems and should result in higher paddy yields. Therefore, as an
exception to the uniform rate policy, the Government has agreed to raise the
rates on the Bank-assisted projects to a level equivalent to about 3.5 cavans
(175 kg) of paddy per ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans (220 kg) in the dry
season. These rates would be reached gradually over a period of five years
from completion of construction of the projects. It has been agreed that the
same rates would apply to the irrigation facilities financed under the proposed
project (Section 4.03 (b) (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). These rates would
result in a total cost recovery index (ratio of total revenue from water charges
to total public sector outlays, including operation and maintenance costs, for
the irrigation related work under the project) of 23%. The cost recovery index
is comparable to that of other Bank-assisted irrigation projects in the
Philippines. While the project would very substantially improve farm incomes,
it is estimated that at full development, some 30,000 farm families on small
rice holdings of less than 1.5 ha, about 67% of project farm families, would
remain below the absolute poverty level in the absence of off-farm income
sources. Both the cost and rent recovery indices are virtually identical to
those obtained for the very similar NISIP I project (Loan 1414-PH). About
29% of the farms' total surplus (after deducting imputed returns to capital,
labor, management and uncertainty) would be paid in water charges. The costs
of the schistosomiasis control program would not be recovered from water
charges levied on farmers in the irrigation project systems because the
program would benefit a far larger population.
54.       NIA's total collection rate for the national systems was about 64%
in FY75, but fell to about 27% in FY76 after the increase in rates in July 1975.
However, preliminary information indicates that the collection rate has
improved in FY77 and is expected to continue to rise as better services
are provided throughout the national systems. NIA is currently preparing a
plan of action for improvement of collections on all of its irrigation
systems for review by the Bank under the provisions of the loan for the
Jalaur project (Loan 1367-PH) which is expected to be completed by October
1978. The Government has agreed to take all necessary actions to ensure the
full and prompt collection of irrigation charges (Section 4.03 (b) (ii) of
the draft Loan Agreement). While it may take several years to introduce fully
the administrative and other improvements necessary to improve collections,
reasonable progress is being made and performance can be expected to improve
in the future. The Government and the Bank would consult annually on the
adequacy of water charges and collection (Section 4.03 (b)(ii) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Environmental Effects
55.       In all three subproject areas malaria is effectively controlled by
a Government program of house spraying with residual insecticides. The
principal health problems in all three areas are protein deficiencies in
small children, enteric diseases and tuberculosis. The proposed project



- 17 -
would have little impact on these. -The project would have a beneficial
effect on the schistosomiasis-infected areas of the four systems in Mindanao
as a result of the proposed control program.
Prolect Benefits and Risk
56.       The proposed project would increase yields on about 80,900 ha
currently dependent on run-of-the-river irrigation and rainfed cultivation
by providing better water control, improved drainage and better agricultural
supporting services. Rice production would increase from about 234,000 tons
of paddy at present to an estimated 516,000 tons at full development in 1978.
Sugarcane production would rise from 440,000 tons to 523,000 tons. The
project would result in annual net foreign exchange savings of $40 million.
57.       Approximately 45,000 farm families and 11,500 landless laborers'
families, a total of about 316,000 people, would benefit directly from
increased production and consequent employment. The project would create a
demand for an additional four million man-days of farm labor per year, equiva-
lent to some 16,800 full-time jobs, and provide rice farmers with increased
access to markets through an improved and denser network of roads to be built
along the canals and drains. In the Mindanao subproject area, the project
would provide a campaign against schistosomiasis aimed at reducing the
disease risk for a population of 140,000 people. The project's per ha cost,
excluding costs due to expected price contingencies and the schistosomiasis
program but including the cost of improving NIA's regional capability, would
be $1,100. The cost per benefited farm family would be about $3,000. The
cost of the schistosomiasis component of the project would amount to about
$230 per family in the endemic area.
58.       Per capita incomes from farming which presently range from $26
on a one ha farm in Southern Luzon to a high of $126 on a two ha farm in
Mindanao would increase as a result of the project to $117 and $358, respec-
tively, but would still be well below the national average per capita
income figure projected for 1988 of $600. The project would, however, help
narrow the income gap which presently exists between the areas served by the
project and the national average per capita income.
59.       Discounting costs and benefits over a 40-year evaluation period,
the economic rate of return of the project is 24%. Rates of return for the
individual subproject areas are 19Z for Southern Luzon, 22% for the Western
Visayas and 27% for Mindanao.
60.       No problems in construction are anticipated, as NIA has had ample
experience of projects of similar scope. However, a six-year implementation
period has been adopted to allow for the wide geographic spread of the project
and the fact that the staff and resources of seven NIA regional offices would
need to be mobilized and deployed. The largest element of risk concerns the
timely and systematic provision of the entire package of agricultural support-
ing services. The project is expected to attain rice yields of 4.0 ton/ha of
paddy at full development in 1987, which assumes that support services
will be improved. However, the project would still have an economic rate of
return of 13Z with a paddy yield as low as 3.0 ton/ha. The action program



- 18 -
described in para. 31 is expected to contribute to the provision of improved
support services which would allow for the higher yields which have been pro-
jected. A possible additional risk could result from lack of proper maintenance
which has historically been a problem in the Philippines. NIA has substantially
improved its maintenance capability in the last few years and the organizational
arrangements set out in para. 43 and provisions for cost recovery set out in
para. 53 are specifically designed to minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
the Philippines and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.
62.       An additional condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement would
be the establishment of the special fund (para. 50).
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 14, 1978



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                              Page 1 of 4 pages
PHtLIPPENES         - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -----          …      -…
---------------                     - -------P1L1PP1E---------------PHILIPPINES       REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      300.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     109.6                        1960      1970   ESTIMATE           THAILAND        TURKEY        AOR.EA SOUTH *4
_--- - - -- - - -- -- - - -- -- -- ------ -__ _- -- -- -- -- ---_ -- - - - - - - - - -   _-  _
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     140.0*    230.0*   410.0*/a              210.0 *    500.0*       280.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           27.4       36.9       43.3/a              36.3        35.6        32.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       91.0      123.0     144.0j                71.0       46.0        327.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       328.0      375.0     395 .0/a            263.0        65.0      1371.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE  W/THOU, AV)        45.1       44.2       43.8                44.3       40.6         35.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          17.9       13.2       10.5                13.7        14.4        11.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        R                    70s.                           153  0 
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       196 4E1                                  105.5        .4'        65.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5        3.3        3.3                 3.2         2. b.c    2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 3.0        3.0        2.8                 3.1         2.5         2.3
URBAN                                 4.0        4.0        3.9                 4.9         4.9Ld       6.4
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          25.3       27.6      29.8                 15.0        38.7       41.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.7       45.6       43.2               45.1        41.7        42.1
15 TO 64 YEARS                       51.6       51.6       S4.0               51.B        54.0        54.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.7        2.0        2.8                 3.1        4.3          3.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9       0.9        0 o.                0.9         0.          0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3       1.5        1.3/b               t.1         1.1/e       1.4
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .      320.0   4065.0/a              470.0           .      4424.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              .        2.0      25.07oa              10.0         .2        42.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        10100.0   12400.0  15400.0/a             16700.0    14500.0/f  10200.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         61.0       55.0      52.67i-             79.0        67.0        50.4/a
EINF.PLOYFn (5 0. LASOR FORCE)          6.3        7.5        4.C                  ..         4.0/j       4.5--
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
__----------------
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD 8Y-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            28.8         ..         *-               22.0        32.  h      17.1
HIG4HIST 20% OF HOUSEOOLDS           58.2       54.0      53.3                51.1        6016/,h    44.5
LONEST  20% OF HOUEHOLDS              4.2         -        -.                  5.6         2.9 lW      7.1
LOK T  40S OF NOU HOLDS              115       11.7       14.7                14.3         0.4 7Th    17.7
BISTRIUUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..        43.0/c               ..       53.0        28.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        ..         2.0/c               *-        0.9         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..        ..   14O. o/d             7970.0      2250.0      2110.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..         ..    4I0.0               6650.0      1770.0 /i  2170. k
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1180.0      850.0    880.0                 NO9.0      500.0      1900.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         83.0       93.0    105.7                103.0       110.0       103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              44.0       45.0      55.6                52.0        78.0        65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0       22.0         ..               17.0 /a    22.0 /       19.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) A0E1 1-4              9.0       u.s        7.5                  ,,       14.7 /k        .
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       95.0      113.0    117.0                 81.0       109.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     26.0       49.0      49.0                16.0        28.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             10.0       10.0       10.0               12.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIDNAL ENROLLRENIt
(C OF SECONDARY)                     14.0        6.0        9.0               14.0 /b     14.0        16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE C%)                   ..        ..      87.0                79.0        55.0 /1    87.0
HOUS I NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..        ..         ..                 ..         1.9         2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (C)                      80.0       76.0         *                  ..        64.0        s0.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                                       -
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 17.0       23.0      31.0                  ..        41.0        50.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%                       .        7.0      10.0                            18.0        30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         22.0       72.0                         87.0         69.0       126.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0        8.0        8.0                5.0         4.0         2.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          100.0      235.0     291.0               124.0       247.0       307.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                1.3       2.0        1.5                1.0         0.7         3.5
SEE NOTES AND DEFINt?tCNS ON REVERSE



Ta-s27 of 4 pages
Unless otherise noted, data for 1960 refor to           yr betwn 1959 d          1961, for 1970 betee  1968  and 1970 end for  ot Recent !tilmte between
1973 *nd 1975.
GNP per capita date amr '.c.d on the world Jank Atlas _thodology (1974-76 basis).
**  Korea has been #elected as an objective conmtry on the bast, of its  inmilar population, location and inco    level  nd, like the Philippirs, it
is  xpected to grow rapidly in the coming years.
FIn7pZ7Tla      1960    j~  1950-55;       b  Ratio of population under 15 man 65 *nd over to total I ap  force;             - I       ' p
/d  1960-62;    /4  1962:    Lf  Not including vocational ahort-tern co *a.
1970   /L  As percentage of  mployent;    /b  Not including private vocational echools or vocational ehort-term  courses
MOST RlZUT ESTIKATE:   /L  1976;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1971;
/d  Registered only; belioved to be over-eatinate of nuer actually practicing.
THAILAND         1970    /a  1964-66;    /b  Public schools, which include technical education at the post-secondry level.
TURXt            1970    /a  1967;    /b  Excludes 17 aescern provinces;    L.  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and v5
end over to labor force 15 year. end over;    /f  15 yastr and over, excludes unamployed;    L&  Registered only;
/h  Dipopable inco-;    Li  Including aeaiseUnt nurses  nd nidfivee;   L/  1964-66;    /k  1967-68;    LI  Parsons
six yaars and over who tall tbh cneus taker, that they con read and writs.
tOR.A Ri. OF   1970    /a  Aa percentage of anploy,_nt;    /b  Registered, not a11 precticing in the country;    !c  Water piped inside.
R1O, Novmber 17, 1977
D    1TIrO  OP SOCIAL mND1ATv
L       Are (thou kc2)                                 FoDuhdtion per nurtins  n r1on - Popultion divided by numbr of proctic.ig
Tot Kl - Total surfc  area copriting land are_  nd inlond wtr Dle and fale  gradusce nure   "trained" or "certified" nurse., end
Aaric. - line; recent estimate of agricultural area ued tenporarily or pona-                 aVXiliary personnel with training or experience.
nently for crop., pasture, mrkbt & kitchen garden, or to lie fallow.                    Population per boesitel bed - Population divtded by nusber of hOspital bd.
iabla in Public and privtt general and epecialised hoepital and
GIIP per cvit  (US$) - GlNP per capita  stimat   at current  arket pric,                     rehabilitation centers; anclude  nursing homa end establishent  for
calculted by *e  conversion othod a  World Blak Atias (1973-75 bie);                      cuatodial nd preventive cre.
1960; 1970 and 1975 deta.                                                               Per capit  uPPly of calorina ( of r r_ t) - Computed fro   rgy
POPul tim and vital statiati.,                                      ~~~~~~~equivalent ofscfo   upisaailable in country Per capita per day;
toulatio and vital *tatiatic                                                               avilebl   upplies conprina dme tic prodution, iport. las  exporte, cnd
Populaion fid-rer million)   A of July fint: if vot  vailable, average                       changes in stock; mat eupplia  exclude anial food, *sd, quantitiee uad
of two and-year  at imatea; 1R60, 1970 and 1975 data,                                     in fOod ProCessing  nd loaaea in diatributlon; requirnnta  ars estimated
by PAO based on phyeiologicel nede for norml activity and health conaid-
Populatton d ity - per eur          - Mid-year Ppul tion per *quer  kilinter                 *ring envirommental t_eratur, body weight, ge and W eA   distribution. of
(10u betare_) of total ar-a,                                                              population, nd  llowing 107 for wate at houahold lev1.
Porulatior d_aitv - per 4 auare 1  of cat,i laud - Conputed as above for                   Per cpita o!RPl` of protein flrm per da) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                   net supply of food per d    n ay    t supply of  food is defined so above; rquir_-
-it. ls*Utistics                                                                             _nt  for all coutrie established by 5UDA t conic __rtch Sarva...
Vital, - btrtiaic   t h-Ana                            bit    prhosdofprovide for a edie  llowance Of 60 grin  of total prtotin per day, and
Crude birth rate p  r tbou  dnd   rs  - A         live bicio per tho nd of                   20gri oa             and pulse protein, of which 10 grm  bhould be animal
mid-yer population; ten-yr arithtbic  vrages ending in 1960 nd 1970,                       protein  tb_   atndrda *r lnr than the of 75 gr_  f total protein
aud fiv-lr veyrag                                  t         o in 1975 for nt rec nt  stity  and 23 grt_ of a a  protin * en  vrag  for the  orld, propoed by FAG
Croda death rate ner thofisend. *verece - Annual d_aChe per thomand of mid-year             in the Third World Pood Survey.
populetion; ten-year arit= tic averagsd  endin  in 1960 and 1970 ad five-                Pr cDiU protein Gu           M fre aniaal and pule  - Ptotein  upply of fond
pear average ending in 1975 for   -t repat _atimt.                                         deriv d                                         -ra  nni_la  nd pule  in gr   p r d
ar th oand lf r      rthsou) - A1 dth   of infant under one yer of a                    Death rat f/thouac        I4 - Annual deaths per thousand in aSe group 1-4
per t     -an  live birthe.                                                                  a oA*rs, to children in thil age group; augg" ted as an indicator of
Lifr exetac 't brh   e   - Averege numnber of years of lifo emaining atsasrii.
birth; cuntlly fIveyr aerae  eding in 1960  1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing cobotrit Education
Gros re production rate -  verage numbr of liv  daughter  a wane will bear                 Ad1ut 0d enrol7_t ratio  - primar  chool - Enrollmnt of all ages as per-
in her norel reproductive period if she experiences preent &ge-specific                    cntaga of priary echool-ag  population; includ.  children aged 6-11 year
fertility reta-; usually five-year avereges  endin  in 190, 1970 and 1975                  but djuatad for different lemetbh  of priary education; for countries  ith
for developing countries.                                                                  universa  ed         
Population g trowth race (. - total - Cand anneal growth rates of mid-yr                     or abo   the official school age.
population for 1950-o0O  1960-70 and 1970-75.                                            Ada       r Ini r ti   - eo          ychol - Conputed as abova; secodary
Population x    ff       d rate(i7 - ubaqun   Coput d  i   gro th rate of tota               etion  reqire   t le c* four yer, of approvd primry instruction;
popuatin;  iffeentdefnition  Of urban  rTeSS may affect ca"erebility of             prvdsgnra,vctoa  ortahe   riin                         tucin   orppl
data        ,._ c trn.of 12 to 17 yeere of age; correepnedence cours" era  en4rs1ly exclude..
Urban population (f   of total1 - Ratio of urban to total population; different            Yers of oolirrovided (fir  P: second le                 r   Totli yea  of
definition, of urb.n areee say effect coaerability of data tog countrie..                  schooling; at *c r   levl,                               Tt1ion l inOtruction  ay bt   rtially or
____________Chldren_______                ,coallacely inluded.
structurepe1    ar)  w                                     a   (15-   yars),               Vc_n  L-  yrt s,        o          ,     - Toc;tionI irtitudosa incde
end  etird (6  yeas  -oer) as pernotcege  of *id.gear population.                   tahIcl  idsraorthrrgrnwhich operae independently Or e
des dsendnry etis- -RAtio of population Under 15 and 65 and over to those              dearteronts  fscnay  ntttoa
Uolf ae   5thog   4                                                                       Adult litaracy rat, 7.   Literate adulta (able to read and writs)  sp-
tcab.i deenen    ato   Ratio of PoPulAtio  nd,edr 15 and 63 an  over istna.o  oa   dl   oulto   gd1   er   n   vr
the labor forc  in ago group of 15-64 years. n                                                     Of ownr  adult   pp;gtim  ged 15 yr          nd o_r
Penily pl nini - accptors (cul-tive. thou) - CunuCaltiv  a-sar of acepto 
of birtb-eont-osl device.s under anepicea of national fadly planing proo Persons pi                r roo    urban) - A vrag  onusbr of p rnaa per noon in occupiad
since inception.~-refttSe                                                      conven-of'M tional dwl-lings in urban aeas.; dwelings exclude non-permae.t
Fanil piningu _ peers (7 of married M      S  - Percaniege_  of married w   n of             a i ditruturaa and unoccupi-d pert..
child-bearig age (13544 Years) who -a birth-cotrl devices to all married                Ocueddsliawthu  ndw trf7)-cupdco etildelis
wInnD intaD agegroup,in urban and rural aireas without  tnaid- or outaiO                                                                     e   piped water facilities
es prcentage Of all occupied dwelling.,
Tlotmen                                                                                    Accesfto lact.citc(7.1f altdwelPersonsonvenincluddsiing                 wit
Total laker farce (tha    d) - 1eonoiclly  tiw   PersoDt, inCluding aod                      electr     icitin living quarter  as percent of total dwellings i  urb  nd
foce  md ninployed but excluding h.ouseives, stdents, etc. ; d afinitiona              runell arewit
in various contria     not cpamb1s.                                                      Ruratl w el   . criur rural
Labor forc in n icut        _( )  - Agricultur al labor foce (in fanning, forestry,          dwrlingsnly. Oncted tO *l trtcity (%) - Couted _  be  f                     I
lanctig and fishing) as percetage of total labor force.
Ohepioed 7. f abor fore)  - Uleesployed era ueu_ly defined ae persons who            Cositn
ar  able and w tpilid to take a Job, out of a job   n a  gt.ven day, re   ed ouio broadcst
Of a Job, end a        mger     for h a specified i_us period not waceading                 o   ral publc pr thouaand of population; * clude  unlicensed reosivns
weak  ma no  beconprabl. between countries due to different definition.                i    unr.adinyrswergstation ofradiooas  walitnie  ffc-t;
of uneploysd and sorce of dat, Ue.g., maPlomeant offtc  ottincics, s*apla                  data  fourirecnt yeas  y   not b  gt praleof radio net   wus in  bff-s
u-"y, copulasry  uftploynt                                                             i      ntur uca.                                                          bolcena
l  cr_otrtbution - Porett nuU of Privats  t          ncs (both in ch    ad ktndc)  - Psaeger carn  c  pris  otor cars seating
received by richest 57, richet 20X, pooret 201, end poorat 401. of hcoae-                  ve    th cles ht p. r os   cld_   Abl   ", h                  -n, miitary
hold..      f 1-    _mhI, _ p.."t.                of lm ed by                            Electricity (b     r ne caP) - AUDUl conasuption of induatri.l, c mrci.1,
____________________________                                                  publich 2 1  end  trvte electricItY In kilowtt hours Per caPits, generally
Ditdribution *f land a or  hp -   Percntag  of land od  by  eltei_t 10                        bad on product ion data, without allow e for less   in grid  butllo
and poorsat 101 of land  mere.                                       ing~~~'S  for iwmpot  and emorta of electricity.
-I1th  nd llutrition                                                                        NZ-print (4/t p r cOP) - Per c.pits annuel conSmption Ln kilogr_s
abultton par pbbict n - PNPuitito       divided bY                                            etbir tf prctici nt rted frt  dom  ntic Production plus net import of neprint.
pleysiama qualified fr_e a   dical achool at univrity  evel.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ million      %           1966-71            1971-76             1976
GNP at Market Prices            17,631       100.0           5.1                6.6                6.4
Gross Domestic Investment        5,519        31.3           5.9               12.5                6.3
Gross National Saving            4,413        25.0           2.4               10.8                6.6
Current Account Balance         -1,106        -6.3
Exports of Goods, NFS            3,115        17.7          -0.5                5.6               18.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            4,270        24.2           4.1                6.5                1.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                  Labor Force                  V. A. per worker
US$ million           %        Million         Z              US$               %
Agriculture          5,156              29.0         8.1         50.0              637           58.0
Industry             6,029             33.9         2.3         14.2             2,621          238.7
Services             6,607             37.1         5.0         30.9             1,321          120.3
Unemployed             .                 .          0.8           4.9              .            _
Total/Average    17,792             100.0        16.2        100.0             1,098          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                       Central Government
(P billion)          % of GDP             (P billion)           % of GDP
1976          1976          1971          1976          1976          1971
Current Receipts          20.9          15.8          11.3          18.3          13.8           9.2
Current Expenditure       18.2          13.7          10.1          16.1          12.2           7.6
Current Surplus            2.7           2.0           1.2           2.2           1.7           1.6
Capital Expenditures       4.9           3.8           1.6           4.5           3.4           1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972      1973       1974       1975       1976     August 1977
(P million outstanding end period)
Money Supply                        6,500      7,300      9,000    10,300    12,100         12,800
Bank Credit to Public Sector        3,900      2,400      2,000      5,800      8,900        9,200
Bank Credit to Private Sector    12,600    16,200    24,200    28,500    23,600             34,900
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money as % of GDP                     11.5      10.1        9.0        8.9        9.2
General Price Index (1972 - 100)  100.0        117.6      154.4      166.8      180.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                   8.2       12.2       39.8        7.4        5.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector         -2.1      -38.5      -16.7      190.0       53.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector        21.7       28.6       49.4       17.8       17.9
/a All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS A4D CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975    1976                                     US$ million    X
(US$ million)
Coconut Products                     539       21.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          3,431   3,076   3,330   Sugar Products                         613       24.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          3,784   4,116   4,383   Forest Products                        298       11.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -353  -1,040  -1,053   Mineral Products                         437       17.3
Fruits & Other Agric. Products    178           7.1
intercst Payments ('et"           26      -53    -185   Other elaaufactiires                  456       18.1
Other Factor Payments (net)   -154    -149    -138         Total                            2,521      100.0
Net Transfers                    Z76      318      269
Balance on Current Account    -205    -924  -1,107   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976 Ic
US$ million
Direct Foreign Investment         28      125      144
Net MLT Borrowing                                        Public Debt, including Guaranteed          2,216
Disbursements                  456      677   1,407   Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  1,812
Amortization                   312      318     368   Total Outstanding and Disbursed             4,028
Subtotal                     144     359   1,039
Other Capital (net) /a           143      -80    -236   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 /d
Increase in Reserves (+)         110    -521    -160
Public Debt, including Guaranteed            7.2
Gross Reserves                                           Nonguaranteed Private Debt                  10.5
(end year) /b                1,978   2,079   2,205   Total Outstanding and Disbursed               17.7
Petroleum Imports                573      710      801
IBRD/IDA LENDING,December 31 . 1977 (US* million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                 IBRD    IDA
Annual Averages         End Period  Outstanding and Disbursed             403.3    28.8
1975   1976  Jan-Aug 1977   Aug 1977   Undisbursed                             725.4      3.4
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed  l,128.7    32.2
US$1.00 =  Y   7.275  7.447       7.418          7.403
P 1.00  =  US$ 0.138  0.134       0.135         0.135
/a  Includes SDRs, short-term private loans, Central Bank liabilities, use of IME credit, and errors
and omissions.
/b Gross reserves of the Central Bank.
/c  Excludes short-term debt and IMF standby credit and ib ui l    dibbursement basis.
/d Ratio of Debt-Service to Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of December 31, 1977
Loan or
Credit                                                           Amounts ($ million)
Number      Year       Borrower         Purpose             Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and two credits fully disbursed              218.5    19.5
637-PH    1969    Republic of the
Philippines      Irrigation          34.0                0.3
720-PH    1971                         Rice Processing
11             and Storage       14.3                5.0
809-PH    1972    W.t4,a>l pver,-
Corporation      Power               22.0                4.4
349-PH    1973    Republic of the
Philippines      Education II                 12.7       3.4
891-PH    1973                         Fisheries           11.6                 1.1
939-PH    1973                         Ports                6.1                3.5
950-PH    1973                         Second Highways   68.0                 14.6
984-PH    1974                         Aurora-Penaranda
Irrigation        9.5                6.3
998-PH    1974                         DFC-DBP 1           50.0                7.6
1034-PH    1974    National Power
Corporation      Power               61.0               28.8
1035-PH    1974    Republic of the
Philippines      Population          25.0               20.4
1048-PH    1974            "            Shipping            20.0               15.5
1052-PH    1974    Philippine
National Bank   DFC                  30.0               19.9
1080-PH    1975    Republic of the   Tarlac
Philippines        Irrigation        17.0               11.8
1102-PH    1975                         Rural
Development       25.0               22.8
1120-PH    1975                         S-ell and Medium
Industries       30.0                9.2
1154-PH    1976                         Magat
Irrigation       42.0               34.3
1190-PH    1976                         DFC-DBP II          75.0               61.4
1224-T-PH  1976                         Education III       25.0               20.5
1225-PH    1976                         Livestock II        20.5               13.3
1227-PH    1976                         Chico Irrigation  50.0                 48.2
1272-T-PH  1976                         Manila Urban        10.0                9.2
1282-PH    1976                         Manila Urban        22.0               20.2
1269-PH    1976                         Second Grain
Processing        11.5              11.5
1270-PH    1976                         Second Fisheries  12.0                 10.9
1353-PH    1977                         Third Highways    95.0                 94.9
1367-PH    1977                         Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                 15.0
1374-PH    1977            "            Fourth Education  25.0                 24.7
1399-PH    1977    Central Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines   Credit             36.5               36.5
1414-PH    1977    Republic of the   National Irriga-
Philippines        tion Systems
Improvement      50.0               49.9
1415-PH    1977                         Provincial Cities
Water Supply    23.0                22.8
1421-PH    1977                         Second Rural
Development-
Land Settlemient 15.0               15.0
1460-PH    1977    National Power
Corporation      Seventh Power       58.0               58.0
1506-PH    1978    Republic of the   Smallholder Tree
Philippines        Farming            8.0                8.0
Total /a    -                                   1,235.5    32.2    728.9
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                        106.8        -
Total now outstanding                           1.128.7    32.2
Amount sold                        22.0
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                 12.6              9.4        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate
adjustments)                                 1,119.3    32.2
Total undisbursed                                 725.5      3.4    728.9
/a A loan of $30 million was approved by the Executive Directors on
January 31, 1978 and signed on February 9.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. STATEMENT OF-IFC INVESTMENTS
As of December 31, 1977
Fiscal                                                     Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                15.0     4.4      19.4
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0       -       8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                   -     4.0       4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                           4.5       -       4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                  0.8      0.4       1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                   -     2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2     2.1       8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                15.0       -      15.0
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9     0.3       2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5       -       1.5
1974         Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5         0.5       2.0
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2       -       1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                 7.0       -       7.0
1976         Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                    2.6      0.2       2.8
1977         Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                    2.3      1.2       3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5      -        3.5
Total gross commitments                      71.0    15.3      86.3
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or canceled                        23.7    12.0       35.7
Total commitments now held by IFC            47.3     3.3      50.6
Undisbursed                                   5.0       -       5.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 637    Upper Pampanga River Irrigation; $34.0 Million Loan of
August 18, 1960; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This is the first major irrigation project in the Philippines and
will supply water year-round to nearly all its 84,000 ha command area.
Some delays were caused by the 1972 floods, but construction has progressed
satisfactorily since then. All works have been substantially completed. The
Closing Date has been extended to December 31, 1977, to allow for disbursements
of about $300,000 for a communications system. Project costs have increased
722 over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid inflation, the
effects of successive devaluations of the peso, and design changes in the dam
(*wich accounted for about one quarter of the increase in costs). However,
the project has reached full development sooner than was anticipated at the
time of appraisal. Also, there are added benefits from early closure of the
dam resulting in water storage and releases sooner than planned, and nearly
7,000 ha have been added to the project. Finally, there has been a considerable
increase in the projected world market price of rice. As a result the estimated
rate of return is about the same as at appraisal.
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project provides long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1978 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project diverts water from the Aurora basin into the Pantabangan
reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for 30,000 ha of rice land in
Central Luzon. Although the need for foundation and abutment area grouting on
the two diversion dams was more extensive than originally expected, progress
on the transbasin diversion was excellent. Diversion of 75% of Aurora water,
on closure of the first dam in July 1975, was an early benefit for the Central
Luzon rice growing area. The second dam was closed on April 1, 1976, about one
year ahead of schedule. In the service area, lack of competition and high bids
delayed awarding of contracts, but five small local construction firms are now
at work. Urgent work is being done by government forces. Project costs have
increased about 54% over appraisal estimates, largely as a result of rapid
inflation. Although there are added benefits from early diversion resulting in
additional water for irrigation sooner than planned, and nearly 5,000 ha have
been added to the project, the rate of return is expected to fall from 17% at
appraisal to around 14%. The Credit has been fully disbursed and disbursement
on the Loan has begun.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to the private
sector through the Development Bank of the Philippines for marine and inland
fisheries development. The demand for subloans has been adequate, and the
organization to implement them has been properly established. The project is
progressing satisfactorily, and all funds were fully committed by July 1976
and are likely to be disbursed by the Closing Date. A moderate arrears
problem has developed, which DBP is tackling by increasing its supervision
and collection efforts.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and expand irrigation
on 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Progress on the groundwater,
water management training and NISIS components of the project has been good.
All major civil works contracts are now awarded and remaining work is all
under way. Also, most equipment contracts are awarded. Progress under the
project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out a rural devel-
opment project on the island of Mindoro. This includes constructing and
improving 150 km of national highways and 280 km of provincial roads, rehabil-
itating and upgrading Calapan Port, improving and extending two national
irrigation systems to serve 12,000 ha of rice land, and 3,000 ha under
communal irrigation systems, providing an agricultural program involving seed
testing laboratories and rat control, providing protection programs in four
watersheds, schistosomiasis control, and assistance to Mangyan tribes. Pro-
gress is satisfactory on irrigation and after substantial initial delays, is
improving steadily for the road component. These two components are being
implemented by agencies having experience with Bank-funded projects, and
construction has begun on Calapan Port. With the exception of the Mangyan
Assistance Program, however, there was little early progress under the other
programs because of inadequate budgeting by the various agencies for the new
programs. More adequate budgets have now been approved and all work is
expected to proceed rapidly.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on the engineering and economic evaluation studies is
almost completed. The water management training is under way and satis-
factory progress is being made on civil works.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness:  September 13, 1976; Closi_g Dat_
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to increase domestic production of livestock
products. As of June 30, 1977, disbursements were $5.0 million, which is
about 70% above appraisal estimates. However, arrears under the First
Livestock Project are quite high and DBP is now taking steps to improve
subloan appraisal and supervision as well as project monitoring.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8. 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 19,700 ha in the Cagayan Valley. Consultants for the Erosion
Control Study and for input-output monitoring have been engaged. A start
has been made on civil works for rehabilitation of the Chico West and Tuga-
Gobgob areas.  Bids have been received for the three road links included in
the project and contracts have been awarded for two of them. Government
evaluation of the third is still under way.  After substantial initial delay,
the road component of the project is now progressing more satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectivene.:j  November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides long-term credit through the Development Bank
of the Philippines to assist in increasing fish production for domestic con-
sumption. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan will assist the Government in rehabilitating about
22,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and constructing new irrigation and
drainage facilities for about 2,900 ha of rice land on the island of Panay.
Construction work on the existing main and secondary canals improvement has
now begun.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Prolect; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides medium and long-term credit through partici-
pating banks to finance farmers and local entrepreneurs for farm mechanization,
livestock, fisheries, and cottage and agro-industries. The project became
effective on June 2, 1977. Initial implementation was delayed because of the
time required for preparation, but commitments are expected to increase in
the coming months. The major problem is to minimize disqualification from
participation due to high arrearages and to encourage eligible rural banks to
participate.
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project consists of rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving 28,000 ha and extension of irrigation facilities to 22,000 ha
of farmland in Northern Luzon and Leyte, and a schistosomiasis control
program in Leyte. The Loan became effective on August 9, 1977.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will assist the Government to strengthen its planning
and implementation capability for its land settlement program and will also
upgrade three existing land settlement areas. The Loan became effective
on October 27, 1977.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Loan was approved by the Executive Directors on December 22, 1977
and signed on January 23, 1978. It is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Progress on civil works construction for both General Santos
and Cagayan de Oro has been slow, due mainly to frequent breakdowns of the
contractor's dredger in General Santos, and the slow mobilization of con-
tractor's plant in Cagayan de Oro. These problems have been resolved and
progress on civil works construction at both plants is improving. By June
1977, work was 36% completed in General Santos, and 6% in Cagayan de Oro.
The present estimated total project cost is 75% higher than the appraisal
estimate due to worldwide price increases. However, foreign exchange costs
are lower than appraisal estimates as the contractors are locally based.
Total traffic at the project ports is in line with appraisal forecasts and a
reasonable financial rate of return is being earned. By June 1977 the
Philippine Port Authority had taken over 7 of the 18 national ports.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: December 27, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Overall progress on construction has been generally satisfactory,
with about 90% of the project works completed. However, progress on one of
the national roads is not satisfactory and this is expected to delay project
completion by about 12 months compared to the appraisal estimate. UNDP-
financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975, and detailed
engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) was completed in
August 1976. Detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project was
substantially completed in October 1977. The total cost of the project has
risen substantially (about 40% above appraisal estimate) because of inflation
following the oil price increase in late 1973. About $12 million still remains
undisbursed and hence the Closing Date has been extended to December 31, 1978.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Government is relending the proceeds of the Loan to the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) for onlending to beneficiaries
for the acquisition of new and used ships and for major repairs and con-
versions. Commitments were initially slow because of lack of demand from the
private sector due to the lengthy period required for the processing of
loans, restrictive collateral requirements by DBP, and unfavorable lending
terms offered by DBP in comparison with those extended by other lending
institutions in the Philippines. However, these problems are now being
resolved and subloan commitments have begun to move again.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project will assist the Government in improving the national and
rural road systems and their maintenance. Most construction contracts have
been awarded. The major problem is delayed implementation of the road restor-
ation/maintenance component of the project. However, priority attention has
been given to this problem and, as a result, these components are expected to
accelerate during the coming year.
Education Sector
Credit No. 349 Second Education; $12.7 Million Credit of January 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 11, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31. 1978
The Credit provides $12.7 million to finance improvements to
existing middle and higher level agricultural education institutions, curric-
ulum development, and new technical and vocational institutions in rural
areas. Physical progress is now good under the project and disbursements have
reached 75% of planned levels. All but 6 of the 32 project institutions
have been completed; the remainder will be completed by the end of 1977.
Three fourths of the technical assistance program has been completed. Cost
overruns of 13% are expected in dollar terms because of inflation and earlier
lack of cost control over civil works; the amount of equipment purchased has
been reduced to compensate for cost overruns.
Loan No. 1224 Third Education Proiect; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers the first phase (1976-80) of the Government's
eight-year textbook program and provides for the development, production
and distribution of 27 million textbooks. It also provides for curriculum
development, teacher training and technical assistance. Progress under
the project is satisfactory. Disbursements are more than twice the planned
level.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project is to assist the Government in developing agricultural
education and training. It includes assistance for: specialized facilities
for forestry, animal science, and veterinary medicine; a regional agricultural
college in the Visayas; and training for extension workers and farmer leaders.
Implementation of all aspects of the project is on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T  Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The loan will finance: (a) improvements in basic sanitary services for
families living in the Tondo Foreshore and Dagat Dagatan areas, and (b) improve-
ments in transportation and traffic in the Greater Manila Area. Construction
on 1,500 of 2,000 serviced lots at Dagat Dagatan is nearing completion. The
high school and health clinic in Tondo have been constructed and the subdivision
of lots in the Tondo priority area is also nearing completion. A paper on the
status of this project will be submitted to the Executive Directors in December.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan will finance: (a) water supply improvement and expansion
in six provincial cities; (b) feasibility studies for water supply improve-
ment in ten additional cities; and (c) feasibility studies for Manila sewerage.
The Loan was made effective on September 9, 1977. Progress is generally
satisfactory according to the review of the preliminary engineering studies
and detailed design of the water supply construction. The water supply
feasibility studies for ten cities and the Manila sewerage design study are
expected to begin in January 1978.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296 of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance the construction of a second thermal unit of 150 MW at Bataan and
transmission facilities in Luzon. Although there has been some minor delay
due to the late delivery of transformers, the project is proceeding satis-
factorily. The erection of transmission lines has also been completed.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed before the Closing Date, which has
been postponed from June 30, 1976 to June 30, 1978. A tariff increase was
approved in October 1976, but this was insufficient to enable NPC to achieve
the expected rate of return of 8% on its net fixed assets in operation.
Further tariff increases are currently under consideration.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15. 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The project is helping the National Power Corporation (NPC) to
finance a 100 MW hydro plant at Pantabangan and transmission lines for the
further expansion of the Luzon grid and feasibility studies by consultants
for a future power project. The generating plant has been commissioned.
However, the transmission component of the project is behind schedule because
necessary design work has been delayed due to NPC's heavy construction
program.  For this reason the Closing Date may have to be extended.  Costs
have increased by 21Z, largely due to inflation.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will assist the Government in expanding the transmission
system in Luzon, establishing the first stage of a communications system and
control center, and training NPC staff. The loan became effective on January 6,
1978.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the Loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of .he Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao. Subloans
are expected to be fully committed by mid-1978.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7. 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project assists in the financing of economically desirable and
financially viable industrial subprojects. As of November 2, 1977, commitments
for subloans totaling $19.1 million had been made. While subloan commitments
have been somewhat slower than originally expected due to the generally slow
pace of business activity, the implementation of the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion of the funds has been fully disbursed. After a
slow start, commitment and disbursement of funds under the Industrial Guarantee
Loan Fund are now proceeding well. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative
Program ($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrifica-
tion Administration is, because of its experimental nature, facing management
and staffing problems. Disbursements on this component have therefore been
slow. Overall progress of the project is, however, satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the Loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. Commitments of funds, which were initially much
slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector
as a whole, have recently improved. The Executive Directors approved a
proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium industries
on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect
was signed on March 16, 1977. As of November 2, 1977, commitments for subloans
amounting to $17.5 million had been made. In addition, $5.4 million had been
disbursed against the allocation for small and medium-scale industries.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project is assisting the Government in expanding rural health
infrastructure, and in providing staff training facilities and technical
assistance for the development of a management information system and for
training. Under the direction of the Project Management Staff in the Depart-
ment of Health, overall project implementation is progressing well. Training
activities are ahead of schedule in all 12 regions. The civil works component
is behind schedule but is expected to be completed ahead of the appraisal
report timetable due to simplification of construction design. Progress under
the project is satisfactory.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS PROJECT II
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  12 months.
(b)  The project was prepared by NIA with the assistance of Consultants.
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  April 1974.
First Bank mission to consider the project: April 1974.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  July 1977.
(e)  Completion of negotiations:  February 1978.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  June 1978.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a)  The Bank and the Philippine Government have agreed on an implemen-
tation timetable to ensure effective project implementation.
(b)  A Bank mission would visit Manila during the coming months to
review progress in project implementation.
(c)  In particular, Bank staff will during the coming months need to
review:
(i) NIA's maps, detailed engineering design and tender documents
for irrigation and drainage works;
(ii) NIA's plans for strengthening agricultural capabilities of the
regional offices;
(iii) progress made by NIA in improving the rate of collection of
water charges;
(iv) the Government's action program for improving supporting services
in areas served by Bank-financed irrigation projects; and
(v) terms of reference and selection of consultants for feasibility
studies.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
Section III: Special Conditions
The Borrower agreed during negotiations that:
(a) it would prepare terms of reference for feasibility studies of
three irrigation projects to be financed under the present loan
and that it would carry out these studies with the assistance of
consultants, whenever necessary, under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank (para. 46);
(b) As a special condition of effectiveness of the loan, it would cause
NIA to set up a special fund to service the project, which would be
replenished by the Government at monthly intervals to a level
equivalent to the estimated requirement for the next two months
(para. 50);
(c) NIA would ensure that the aggregate amount of civil works to be
done by force account would be limited to 65% of the total cost of
the work (para. 51);
(d) NIA and DOH would enter into a formal agreement acceptable to the
Bank for implementation of the schistosomiasis control program by
June 30, 1978 (para. 48);
(e) the Government would prepare a plan of action by June 30, 1979,
for provision of effective agricultural supporting services on the
Bank-assisted irrigation projects, and, after reviewing such plan
of action with the Bank, would proceed with its implementation by
January 31, 1980 (para. 31);
(f) the NIA would make annual budgetary provision to supply the funds
necessary for O&M of the project works (para. 53);
(g) irrigation fees would be levied to provide NIA with sufficient funds
to ensure sound O&M practices and to contribute towards recovery of
as much as possible of the investment cost within a reasonable
period, taking into account farmers' incentives and capacity to pay.
A gradual increase in irrigation fees over a period of five years
from completion of construction to a level equivalent to about
3.5 cavans of paddy per ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the
dry season would meet the requirement (para. 53);
(h) the NIA would take all necessary actions to ensure full and prompt
collection of the irrigation fees (para. 54); and
(i) it would consult annually with the Bank on the adequacy of water
charges and collection (para. 54).



815D         120D                                                   144°                                                B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD 12507RI
-  110"            120"                                                  134"                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMOERT987
CLASSIFICATION  OF PROVINCES                                                                                   PH2L4PPINES
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGiONS                                                                                      PHILIPPINES
-Y GOS RA               ESTERNA R VOSASNotionol Irrigation Sysltems Improvement Proct
liOCOS                    WESTERN VISAYAS 
1 [locos Norte          37 Ak4an
2 Abra  38 C.PizSYSTEMS LOCATIONS
2 Abra                  38 Capiz                                                             JIn           tV Z      X         fSI
3 bca Suo              39 Anticue
20t   4 MounuiDn        40 lo.ilo                                                                        A         ISIP I
4    Uont               41 Negros Occidental
6 La nlAe'                CENTRAL VISAYAS                                                                A        NISf if
7 Parigainan42 Cebu
7 P~~ ~~tttefl  4~    N- rina                                                                      A        NISIP lit
CAGAYAN VALLEY    44   hot 0                                                                                     PRFEVIOUS 1fRD PROJECTAREAS
a   0aenes              45 Sistuijor                                                                 _
9 Cagayan                 EASTERN  VISAYAS                                                                        ROAM
10 Ka in0a-APaeao        46 Mort hem SamarCh.SuP                                                       I-I-I   iLWAYS
II Isabele               47 Samar                                         a   kwe                                   ALAY
12 tfp                   40 EastrnaSamear
13 NuoeviOamya           49 Leyte                           --f                                                   iRIVEFS
14 Qui001w               50 Southern Leyte             LNa                                                           A REGIONAL BOUNDARIES AND NUMBERS
CENTRAL LUZON             WESTERN MINDANAO               79 A-    K                                   Co4uc Io  MAREI310NAL0OFICES
15 Nuevs Ecija            5 1 Zamboanga del Norte  n1                                                    .. to NARM A   FIE
6STarlec                 52A o1a e SrRIE
17 Zeervbaies             52  -asil-an a                   \I  * \                                              - 3-v/CO  __ RPROVRNCIAL BO3UDARtES
P-pahoo         53 Basilan                       4         -     I ,IIGA3RP          C
8 Pifmpenga      ~~~54 SLifU                   1}t/'             7t X9
19 Eulacrs                55 Tawitawi                     #3  t              \ -  gdn  - 
20  aden                   NORTHERN MINDANAO             I                        Ia
SOl3THERN TAGALOG 56 Suriggo del Norte                         v12aU        Cuvan
21 R zaioe,               57 Camiguin                r     5RE6R
22 Riza                   58 Agusan del\\ortoTFeApOdPROJECT
24 LaMena                 5     ams Oriental     r                                                                         tf    fa    200   2r    30
-to    25 Batangas                60 Miseis0 Occidental       Ur   ta                   /                                            KiLOMETERS                               Ia"
26 Meiridte               61 Lwnadel Norte                             V        '                              0         06        1 O Si               200
27 Mindaoro Oriental      62 Laneo del Sur                          P           G rv  RIVER PROJECT    !                           NG :,                2
28 Mvndoro Occidental     63 Bu0virnfon                   1        A''  RI' PESRARAN2A RRII0AYriR PRojECT                         M IS
70 Rameblon               64 Agusan del Sur             16         A   tLy
30 palawa.               65 SuAigao del Sur      317 \ 
'~RLAC I/RRlTIOI20V SY$TEMS
BfCOt                     SOUTHERN MINDANACO  Ar                        u       MEET ROJECT
31 Oamnerme  Norte        66 Magoindanao             I
32, CamanesS              67 North Cotabato     oanflti(           22   A                              -    PHiL/PPINV                     SEA
33 Catesdsiaaes           68 Davau                                                                                 LIPP N                          
34 AitOV                  69 Davao Oriental
35 Sorsogon               70 D..ava  del Sur                 ~
36 Masbote                71 SulItar Kudarat                     ,-, js1 'Pv b                  )n
72 South Cotabato              N    2
OEEELOnMtENT  PP,JC^             1      i_      )    >          t4.
SOUrH'  CHIIVA                                                             eei7  </                                   46
SEA                                       P        \n/Volt  jA,B        /         /                                               'r9,<d   G
:                           Jt'               /                                          //  d8E#(Jr"vvCrtoP I                   vga
30        P'n.                                                                              /
"PA LA WAN
,'  ':I/'USEA4                                                         65S_ <             <
~~~~B-~ ~~~/
?   .                                       lf a,<,            <       f F; { nD~~~~~~~~AA  40  oI l~ 
07  p~~~~~~ 
CHINA                                                                                                                     A TAIWAN
t^UtV}F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Zenoe  a .,                                   vrv  :y,         8
SIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K
e I  NA D~ 4E                                                                                      S        A.-S  * A ;:
.  A Ct-i                                            120" 24-:  






IBRO 12947R
,   12PIW     NMEsR ig7v
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS iMPROVEMENT PROJEC U
REC-ON 5 IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
SOUTHERN' -LUZON' tROJECT
rx    t  : X ,7                                      0      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ * XSI 0i15  IRElSM DAMIS
: PROP0I DIVErS 0I  .
-  ftWMVAL$
_  , AEf-TAL$AY- MAT0GD0f            '                 =       O1
\ PRVER IRRltGATMn SYSTEM (4,801
- PfrOILA( -OUN-APA D
s '2 A M  A RiLN E S   -      GOaet    t      - .;                                         PPA. ,,,,AptUTAiT E
'jCAMAR    ~      ~       L~fYtO     R      CA AIN~Go~,
NO'k E ~ ~       ~         ~        ~         ~        ~       IG~O
1'W                                                                                            ETNOMRT ; " .   .fASF  
W  <    _---            X   \         X~~~~~~~~~~A  1/G   E                                                              Z 
X      2 LIboro               \sL b ,o            A Y     'ITI 
N   V                                          I      ooY'  ,V iR IGT
3!4  9  19    29    30    40      AYSTI (2,00A hIONS. N                 j
Su;.-- .ARIN                                                                                       -? MARI
X - - A ~~~~~~~~~~~~ag.   SU                          T' .  i ONY
-13'30'                                                                                         U_  * h ,- "'  0'
S X - R A  G A                        M     S BATE                                                            N
' w \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                       12\-3'30'>T <
.   Io    ;   <  . \ . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~8                        "R  jA    1   GF1
.. .  11         [                  .,    (      E              0     .      W     a           W.   /       %\}~~~~~~~~~G.. 6.
-    2tUZOuiPACIFC/Z                    S1587SrAiN                r                                 's S R tG N
. S ffA  5?                                         2E     V 10                                                               ) p 4             ~ S\A,(0
. 2   \ -NT        e *,                        MAS^BATE  < OMEXER                  -                             S
9   S f @4  '~~~-1'.       13   Ft is f                          13°0'   ,,d-,






PR9 13t123R
PHILIPPINES                                        12/                                                                                         '12.   NOVEMBER 1977
National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project L                             /) -    '  
REGION  9, 10, 11 IRRIGATION  SYSTEMS,                                          .
MINDANAO SUBPROJECT                                                       ""'              /            AGUSAN  DEL SUR
i    EXISTING DIVERSION DAMS              \.  )                                              F
C    PROPOSED DIVEHSION DAMS                 \      B, U  K  1' D  N   0   N        /
EX STING CANALS           --A
-.- RIVERS                                      \ i'              /               .                                   -    -                   ' -
_____ROADS 
--   ROVINCIAL BOLJNDAR ES
.,i    I REHAB LITAT ON AREAS                       /                                    i
r.i f   F^ |EXTENSION AREAS                         .D  A  V  A                                                             D    E    L    N   O    R  T  E
17-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
'C;ON2E5ROI                    1. f N 4  RlvECSO  'F)   ,   - .A/  NP  .E                                                                             -_                        7"a
'V0sb                <V,, |                                                                                                                            Kis-ongknIR G'Ig.7EI   ' }(    
N  O  R  T  H  \4 <-0- / > .'~~~~~~~~ } --: -/,,100 0< ' DawanSTIIFA 
IR. (._.  .   A   1   _   M ,G 6A T : k   I  X  F  V ' R   gj:   }   ''   /   L                        L u E a2nN  \ S R .
-    X                                                                                                                                K,.qkA\T O   71 RtT4J   i-E: X\    ggkbr
'I,IR VIR -S,'        C     r
K,'                                                             I                                                                               '"4\ <       PGa         'S E _
C  O-T A  BA T                                                                     /
V                     ~~~~QAVAd.,
Dcv.'                     ~~~ORIENTA4
V r--  DNI\   f  NRD  A  V  A  O   E                                      126
"\  '  %<   .-'~4- 5  D  E    L  S  U  R
V                                                       Pa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f c~ f c
--0(  ' .- S\O  U  T  H   8 C   O,.T 4   T  O    ,   >  _  0                             {      S        '     :ZOV{1
\.             F   SOUTH                                  C\        (         -,                                                               ,- F"PHILIPPLNES
4     1<:.'S.  l P!\'EP                                     e \ W; .
;~ ~ ~~~~~~~")   SF- N' [N ''' ''    .
Santo,. R    F ~~~~~~~~~'31'~~~~F                              ¾'Y~~~SAAAAIR
K-L_MEr;E    .                                                                                                                                       M:N '>|N,  .  v.    L, V
'  .MffLES'                                         .        >   50'--rv ..-I2Ff -  -       '  '    '                                         __ _ = _ _= ____ _ _ _ __/e_es 5ea _






IBRD 12946R
12 1°00'                                              12'30PHILIPPINES  3'     NOVEMBER 1977
-Suzo) PV( ;             NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT II
OCiFA Nca                                REGION 4 IRRIGATION SYSTEMS                                                    ,5000
souTH  'AREA                                               SOUTHERN LUZON SUBPROJECT
SEA                                                                            Main Canals
-,. *i'oiSR                                             *      Diversion Dams (Existing)
.     Proposed Diversion Dams
Roods
SUZ 4                                                                     Railways
SEA    ( ANAO                                                         -  Rivers
t>  it  /'lj  t  \               )         t    _  J Rehabilitated Area                      .       onto
Extension Area
AGO$ RIVER 
IRRIGATION SYSTEM
1W           (1~~~,200 ha)
BATAA                                                                           R I Z A L
-14 '  30'  (2          A     Y4                                                     Ta5n \                  /     414y
141 30'-
_</                   gIrr,us         \\  7        -          t             8~~~~          in Sii oan  '
/Iosrvrio        \                 .                 j j                      :     E
RiV i E RPErefe\ 
j-             . Iso)Vista                                                I A   -.    1 r                   son n
Oh r ,oof t    J Cfr At 10         T  Et  oa 'hd .0
fl,0t donoookoffo od miM to           .>Mouban
htVEuc bon, oo t on
do oot kop4 9 so etq port of Oasi                                                         |                 RIVER IRRIGATION
SOB A Y \oO~itO,V 0ty O mALo iSTEML
Weri o,pjmis  of woli Asndo#o               i2I    it 0i0 
MytrtXtrtghr e0a tSYSt                 K I LOMETERS
Q  ortfsuQU4ounearies   A                    lalo4                                                              A 
_Vof :X                                         ,                         ,, 0         L              .






IBRD 12948R
122300   50                                                                                   123°00  - NOVESM@ER 1977
PHILIPPINES
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT II
-12-00                                            REGION  6 IRRIGATION SYSTEMS  WESTERN VISAYAS SUBIPROJECT                                  12'00L
Catictn                            S                                               *      Existing Diversion Dams
,<  S I   J B    U  Y  A   N              -         Existing Canals
/ S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
S    EA   0    = O                          RoacEs ANIL
/v , r Hm ~~~~AKLAN RIVER                                                            R  = . . 
7  AREA                                                                            IRRIGATIONIRRIGATION
4~~ ~ ~~~~                                                            PrUi  JSE   ;;- ovincial.Boundaries
:   S   ;              >      )       Makaah~~C,     lbo                                          R 7  eha bilitation Areas f
S S 0 0        f        Ma~linao                                         |///%i Exienqsion Areos 
L rwo yhA,  K    0 L ;   t_   n   rh    o  o  4   0
- ;: 0+,;  0; 5  00000000:. f )  A  N  T I 410.0Q,U4E44 4OIoOotoooooO*0004*40,D=404         I log 
P31,          t R =:,;    [ttoWes,lVaiderrama              :         <)                  ;~apmgle         _<  f 0= * 00* 0                 = *  j444
culasi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~130
g  0,gfA    Tio I1 Qt U  ELViej
:N / f ~alderra a                                                     n, le<  _/.....
.  O   S  f  ~~~~~ > '9_ . Jan  a                    C  arlotan~% 
RI EP      ifrI                                              
SYT'                                                                                                               Sila CityA'jt  lgra   
sov; f    C a  ison
fYA  O f ;   ;  t                                                . . I~~~~~~~~~~llRRGATIODN ,t t  
SUtlJ  SfA i = i ==: . 1 ' J \ /~YSTEM 
.  :   g_;,C  7Ai P*J/I.f ff7VrheWftf/f fianiW8iXfv~~~~~~~SAf folXcos>tatr   ::   )/      1~C-
.  .0  ,3O                                                    hC                                                                      ~t0e£@t C6 hff,itS -f =  =0 ,0- /
[' ,~~~ boeabChVrfY=ffrFftbitfbfYgOIh 7- a    z
=   = v  V   =  >   ilfforrJ=/*maetontifts4off=sfwrtffurroraybEtffa     v   11         a  r ot
i.0000===   '  A194 =,=:=   _    -lOS0q  t:0'F':-   5;=9:=20.:;    g+00,;   0    \//3 T L       123City






IBRD 13024
AUGUST 1977
IIRRIGATION  REGION  8                                                               12145'                                                                           PHILIPPINES
National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project II
-  I  i     $/      j Xh   ZIGAA          REGIONS 8 & 10 IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
P.&&259yt                                                                         BA gtO9  ()   i>.l  \)gY  X   BY                        Mindanao Subproject
,     Existing diversion dams
Main canals
P-9 D.I.g.                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
5   5      10      15      20                 Roods
8fi 9 i 03t X Y '                                                                                                                                 tsOrxqv.nt  s-      3v    Provincial boundaries
0                          15 ~~~~~~~~M    Rehabilitation areas
Extension oreas
IRRIGATION REGION 10                                             . 1O ms map  ow    t           12
Z   a    m   b    o  a   n   g   a   <   !  /  10  g  G re A N D E 4 X y. an the p3< 7f t:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tA    nn vaia xa             t   hetnanv    n
(h. i sott tO which it in attahnd
SC A                  The davx,i-aSixv vxd sad th.
GRANDSdent  ,           N .SMonxa shx,nv- Shiv aP
1donxtnm-y. nhpat nfth
\i e .8ClorIn                               >'->;d N o r t e  i;/                                                                                      dt
M i s  a M I                    fin '  'hx'ni'x
Occidental                                                                                                     PHti l/Pi/NF       SIFA
LnoDSrr X -       Surigao         Del
I  \  L=    .  A.:  S :1 z  \  S   \                     ,                                              \ ./  Adlx
l   R  :4 'i1  \ '\:t,SffAi§ilf91i$~~~~~~~ zf.Del  )\     ..a
LUG R I 623-,30':: g  \                t123145'                                                              ,                 126NreECN A    RVE
RIGATIO   STEM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~IRIATO  SSE
Kopxtaan  NSOnO5SuDigac                                                   DelSun
[INoAtN/SOITAr4IS
t2$ 30                                                                                                       12h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0n                          126 5~~~~~~12-



