CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1526 PH
Ian Agreement
(Second National Irrigation
Systems Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 15, 1978


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 15, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrover) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "NIA" means the National Irrigation Administration, an
agency established by the Republic Act No. 3601 of the Borrover,
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "DOH" means the Borrower's Department of Health;
(c) "SCRS" means the Schistosomiasis Control and Research
Service of DOH;
(d) "Project Area A" means the area specified in the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in which Part A of the Project as
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement is to be carried out;
(e) "Project Area B" means that part of Project Area A which
includes the Salug, Libungan, Malasila and Padada irrigation
systems, in which Part B of the Project is to be carried out;
(f) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
(National Irrigation System Improvement Project) between the
Borrower and the Bank dated May 13, 1977; and "Prior Project
Area" means the area specified in the Annex to Schedule 2 to
the Prior Loan Agreement;


﻿-2-
(g) "Prior Irrigation Project Areas" means the Prior Project
Area, and the areas in which projects financed in part with Bank
loans under the following loan agreements between the Borrower and
the Bank are to be carried out:
(i) Upper Pampanga Irrigation Project, dated August 18,
1969,
(ii) Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation Project, dated May 14,
1974,
(iii) Tarlac Irrigation Systems Improvement Project,
dated January 27, 1975,
(iv) Rural Development Project, dated April 15, 1975,
(v) Magat River Multipurpose Project, dated August 7,
1975,
(vi) Chico River Irrigation Project, dated April 8,
1976, and
(vii) Jalaur Irrigation Project, dated February 14,
1977; and
(h) "ha" means hectares of land.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-
five million dollars ($65,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
zime by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05t The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part B.1 of
the Project through the SCRS of DOH and the remainder of the
Project through NIA, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, engi-
neering, health and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation to its obligation under sub-paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall by June 30, 1978 cause
NIA and DOH to enter into an agreement acceptable to the Bank for
the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation of its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause NIA to


﻿-4-
establish and maintain, under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, a special fund from which NIA may draw without restriction
to meet expenditures in respect of the Project (except Part B.1
thereof). The Borrower shall adjust and replenish the amount in
such special fund at monthly intervals to a level at least equiva-
lent to the estimated amount of payments to be made for goods and
services required for the Project less the estimated amount of
payments to be made directly by the Bank out of the proceeds of
the Loan to suppliers, consultants, or contractors, during the
next two months' period.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1979,
cause its Department of Agriculture in cooperation with NIA to
prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review, a plan of action
for the provision of effective agricultural supporting services
in Project Area A and the Prior Irrigation Project Areas.
(b) The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1980, implement or
cause to be implemented such plan of action.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall prepare or cause to
be prepared, terms of reference satisfactory to t_he Bank for
the studies included in Part E of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed
consultants to assist in carrying out Part E of the Project,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) In order to assist NIA in carrying out Part D of the
Project, the Borrower shall, if necessary, cause NIA to employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall grant or cause to be
granted all water rights required for existing, expanded or new
irrigation systems to enable NIA to carry out and operate Part A
of the Project, and except as the Bank may otherwise agree, shall
take such action as is required to ensure that no other water
rights except for domestic use are granted which could adversely
affect the water supply required for Part A of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIA and SCRS to
furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause NIA and SCRS to maintain
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived
from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not -later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause NIA and SCRS to prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purcaase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt mateing
not more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in
force in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the
Borrower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIA and SCRS
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
operations in respect of the Project.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall cause NIA and SCRS to: (i) have their
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements, and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause the works and
facilities included in Parts A and B of the Project to be operated
and maintained in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering,
health and financial policies and practices, and shall make avail-
able sufficient funds to NIA for such purposes, including the
provision to NIA of sufficient funds, on an annual basis, to
maintain in good order the anti-schistosomiasis drainage network
specified in Part B.2 of the Project.
(b) Without limitation on its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower undertakes to do, or, to the
extent required, to cause NIA to do, the following:
(i) make adequate budgetary provision to operate
and maintain Parts A and B of the Project; and
(ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take
all necessary action to ensure that charges for
the use of irrigation water are levied and col-
lected from the users of the irrigation systems
included in Part A of the Project and that such
charges will provide NIA with revenues sufficient
to cover all operating and maintenance costs
of such irrigation systems, and, in addition,
to provide for the recovery, within a reasonable
period, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, of a portion of the monies invested in such
irrigation systems without impairing the users'
incentives and capacity to pay. The Borrower shall
consult with the Bank, annually, on the adequacy of
water charges and collection thereof.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the special fund referred to in Section 3.02 hereof
has been established.
Section 5.02. The date June 20, 1978, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines
Cable address:                      Telex:
SECFINANCE                          7550 CBP-PH
Manila                              0268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Mario C. Belisario
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By 1sf S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works
(a) Mobilization          3,000,000         100% of foreign
and construc-                           expenditures
tion equipment
for civil works
contractors
(b) other civil          32,000,000         35%
works (includ-
ing materials
used in force
account work)
(2) Equipment and             21,000,000
Materials
(a) directly                                100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally manu-                           100% of expen-
factured                                ditures (ex-
factory)
(c) imported goods                          65%
procured locally
(3) Technical Assistance       5,000,000         100%
(4) Unallocated                4,000,000
TOTAL     65,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Irrigation Development in Project Area A
1.   Rehabilitation of 26 existing NIA irrigation systems
serving a total area of about 53,700 ha.
2.   Construction of new irrigation, drainage and road
facilities on about 27,200 ha of currently rainfed
land adjoining the NIA irrigation systems referred
to hereinabove.
3.   Construction of a subregional headquarters building,
seven new field offices and extension of office, stor-
age and staff quarters facilities for eleven existing
field offices.
4.   Provision of vehicles and equipment.
B.   Schistosomiasis Control Program in Project Area B
1.   (a) Provision of a health education program based in
all schools and health centers in eleven disease-
affected municipalities.
(b) Establishment of a diagnostic screening campaign
and chemotherapy for treatment of about 35,000
cases.
(c) Strengthening of SCRS headquarters staff and
staffing and equipping of field teams to implement
Part B.1 (a) and (b) of the Project, and to carry
out snail surveys.
2.   (a) Survey and design of drainage improvement works
covering the drainage basin in Project Area B.
(b) Improvement of existing drains and natural creeks,
and construction of new secondary and farm drains,
on a total area of about 22,000 ha.
(c) Provision of vehicles and equipment.


﻿- 13 -
C.   Strengthening of Regional Operation and Maintenance
Capability of NIA
1.   The provision of equipment to NIA to assist it to
operate and maintain the irrigation systems in Annex B
to this Schedule.
2.   The provision of training to NIA staff in design,
construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation
systems included in Project Area A and the Prior Proj-
ect Area.
D.   Monitoring
Implementation of the monitoring system described in Part
E of Schedule 2 to the loan agreement (Chico River Irri-
gation Project) between the Borrower and the Bank dated
April 8, 1976, to irrigation systems included in Project
Area A and the Prior Project Area.
E.   Feasibility Studies
Completion of studies on the feasibility, and detailed
engineering design for implementation, of new irrigation
projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 14 -
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
Project Area A
Irrigation Systems
by
Sub-Project Area, NIA Region and Province
Irrigable area (ha)
Sub-Project NIA                Irrigation       Rehabili-
Area     Region Province      System         tation    Extension Total
Southern
Luzon         4     Quezon      Agos              1,000      200    1,200
Lagnas              400      600     1,000
Hanagdong           300        -       300
Dumacaa           2,500        -     2,500
Batangas    Palico              800      300     1,100
Subtotal              5,000    1,100     62100
5     Camarines Daet-Talisay-       2,600    2,200    4,800
Norte      Matogdon
Albay      Hibiga               300      200       500
Mahaba-Nasisi      1,300      300     1,600
Ogsong               300      300       600
Camarines  Cagaycay           1,700      300     2,000
Sur
Sorsogon   Bulan                400    '200       600
San Francisco        400      200       600
Subtotal              79002    3,700    10,700
Total Sub-Project Area    12,000    49800    16,800
Western
Visayas       6     Aklan      Aklan              3,000      700     3,700
Antique    Sibalom-San Jose   4,300    1,400     5,700
Negros     Bago              13,000    2,800    15,800
Occidental
Pangiplan          1,600      200     1,800
Total Sub-Project Area    21,900    5,100    271000


﻿- 15 -
Irrigable area (ha)
Sub-Project NIA                Irrigation       Rehabili-
Area     Region  Province     System         tation    Extension Total
Mindanao      8     Zamboanga   Labangan          1,600      800     2,400
del Sur
Salug             2,800    4,500     7,300
Subtotal             4400     59300     9 700
9     Bukidnon    Roxas               400    1,000    1,400
Subtotal                400    12000     1,400
10     Surigao     Cantilan          1,300    1,100     2,400
del Sur
South       Tinagucan             -    1,100    1,100
Cotabato
Davao       Padada            1,300    1,200     2,500
del Sur
Davao       Lupon             1,500      500     2,000
Oriental
Subtotal              41100    39900     89000
11     North       Libungan          6,400    1,600    8,000
Cotabato Kabacan            2,700    3,400     6,100
Malasila          1,800    2,100     3,900
Subtotal             10,900    79100    18,000
Total Sub--Project Area   19,800   179300    37,100
Grand Total               53,700   27,200    80,900


﻿- 16 -
ANNEX B TO SCHEDULE 2
Part C.1 of the Project
Irrigation Systems
Sub-Project               NIA                     Irrigation
Area                 Region      Province        System
Southern Tagalog              4        Laguna       Diezmo pump
Marinduque   Tambangan pump
Cavite       Kay Akle
Bicol                         5        Catanduanes  Oco
Camarines    Lalo-Barit
Sur
Sorsogon     Pili
Western Visayas               6        Antique       Sibalom
Iloilot      Barotac Viejo
Capiz        Mambusao
Aklan        Panakuyan
Negros       Santa Catalina
Oriental
Negros       Dumaguete
Oriental
Negros       Tanjay
Oriental
Mindanao                      8        Zamboanga     Dipolo
Sur
10        South        Banga
Cotabato
Souti       Marbel
Cotabato
11        Lanao del    Rugnan
Sur
Lanao del    Maranding
Norte
North        M'lang
Cotabato


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1. 1983
through   November 1, L997                   2,165,000
On May 1, 1998                                    2,215,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.10%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     2.25%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.10%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                              5.95%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                              6.70%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                              7.45%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to the
Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days
prior to the proposed date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be carried out either (a) by NIA under force
account, or (b) by contracts awarded under the Borrower's normal
competitive bidding procedures, provided that the aggregate cost
of civil works carried out by force account shall not, without the
prior consent of the Bank, exceed 65% of the total cost of all
civil works in the Project.
2.   Any item of equipment and materials not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $10,000 may be awarded on a competitive basis consistent
with the Borrower's normal procurement practices without inter-
national competitive bidding, provided that the aggregate expendi-
ture for such items shall not exceed the equivalent of $300,000.


﻿- 20 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of the Philippines may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of the Philippines if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the Bor-
rower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in the Republic
of the Philippines equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of the Philippines.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then


﻿- 21 -
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and all contracts
for equipment and vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Review of prequalification:
If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail
of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifi-
cations in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility
for domestic preference under Part D.1 above and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for
such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Borrow-
er's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 22 -
(1) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(2) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(3) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(4) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its exe-
cution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not iconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inforn the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


