FILE         COpy                     Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1914-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
CENTRAIS ELECTRICAS DO SUL DO BRASIL S.A. - ELETROSUL
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
November 5, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 29, 1976)
Currency Unit       -       Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                -       Cr$11.83
Cr$1                -       US$0.85
Cr$1,000            -      US$84.53
Cr$1,000,000        -      US$84,531
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COPEL        -  Companhia Paranaense de Energia Eletrica
DNAEE        -   Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia Eletrica
ELETROBRAS   -  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
ELETROSUL    -  Centrais Eletricae do Sul do Brasil S.A.
FURNAS       -  Furnas Centrais Eletricas S.A.
GCOI         -  Grupos Coordenadores para Operacao Interligadora



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DO SUL DO BRASIL S.A. - ELETROSUL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF
BRAZIL FOR A POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil S.A. - ELETROSUL with the guaran-
tee of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$82.0 million
to help finance a power transmission project. The loan would have a term of
17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.7% per annum.
ELETROSUL would relend US$4.3 million of the proceeds of the loan, on the
same terms, to Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS to help
finance a training program benefitting the power sector as a whole.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (812-BR), dated
July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 21, 1975.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        During 1967-74 the combination of excellent domestic economic manage-
ment and a buoyant world economic environment produced a period of high and
sustained income growth, strong balance of payments performance and gradually
decelerating inflation. Brazil's average annual rate of growth of about 10%
over this period resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a 130% in-
crease in manufacturing output and a 380% increase in the US dollar value of
exports. However, international economic events in 1974 and 1975 have forced
at least a temporary slowdown in the pace of economic growth. With the sharp
deterioration of the country's terms of trade and the disruption of the world
capital market, the balance of payments is proving to be a severe constraint
on Brazil's growth. As a result, the pace of growth slowed significantly
during 1975-76.
4.        The fourfold increase in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2
billion to the import bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported
raw materials, as well as the hardening of terms of external financial credits,
have made management of the external sector difficult since 1974. These
factors caught Brazil at the time when its economy was overheated and growth
of import demand was very high, because after a prolonged period of rapid
growth some key industrial sectors were approaching capacity levels of output.
The current account deficit, which averaged just US$1 billion in 1969-73, or
2% of GDP at current prices, widened to about US$7 billion or 7% of GDP in
1974, reflecting the sizeable differential between import growth (about 100%)
and export growth (roughly 30%) and the increasing level of interest payments
on debt. The bulk of the deficit was financed by a large increase in the
inflow of external financial credits of considerably shorter maturity than was
generally available during 1971-73.
i This document has a restricted distribution and may be usnd by recipients only in the perfomance |
of their official,duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without WorM Bank authorintion.



- 2 -
5.        The Government attempted to narrow the balance-of-payments current
account deficit in 1975. It was successful in keeping imports somewhat below
the 1974 level in nominal terms by maintaining a balanced budget, continu-
ing the crawling peg exchange rate policy and introducing direct import
controls. This implied a substantial reduction in the real level of imports
and was accompanied by a decline in the rate of GDP growth to 4%. Export
growth of about 9% was somewhat disappointing, largely due to the frost in
Southern Brazil in July 1975, which adversely affected production of some key
crops, including coffee and sugar, and a slowdown in manufactured export growth
as a consequence of the recession in the consuming countries. Nevertheless,
because of import restraint the trade deficit declined from US$4.7 billion in
1974 to US$3.5 billion in 1975. However, improvement in the trade account was
virtually offset by a large increase in interest payments reflecting the growth
of the external debt and higher Eurodollar interest rates.
6.        The Government monitored the balance-of-payments situation very
closely and in the second half of 1975 adopted several new measures designed
to produce a further contraction of imports in 1976. The new measures estab-
lished advance import deposit requirements on approximately 40% of merchandise
imports, further increased import duties, increased gasoline prices by 25% and
continued restriction of public sector imports. In addition, as a longer term
measure, the Government has given the state petroleum monopoly, PETROBRAS,
permission to undertake service contracts with foreign oil companies. Despite
these measures, however, 1976 has been another difficult year for balance of
payments management. Prospects are for a relatively small gain in exports,
while growth of GDP and imports is proceeding faster than expected. While the
1976 trade deficit was forecast at the beginning of the year by the Government
to be US$800 million, it is now likely to reach at least US$2.5 billion. This
will be accompanied by a corresponding increase in the total (public and
private) foreign debt, which the Government now forecasts will reach US$27
billion by the end of the year, up from US$21.2 billion at the end of 1975.
In addition, with inflation averaging 4.1% per month in the first nine months
of 1976, the Government has adopted a series of increasingly more restrictive
monetary measures. These include higher compulsory reserve requirements,
increased Central Bank re-discount rates, higher short-term rates of interest,
and a prior deposit of Cr$12,000 which is required of all residents of Brazil
travelling abroad and which is to be held for a year without monetary correc-
tion or interest. Moreover, the public sector accounts have moved into
a deficit position, which has led the Government to initiate an overall
review with a view to stretching out or cutting back public expenditures,
especially public investments.
7.        Over the longer run Brazil's economic growth prospects are very
favorable but it is unlikely that growth will return to the 10% pace attained
in the 1967-74 period. Brazil was seriously affected by the changes in its
terms of trade and by the world recession in the past few years. While the
large increase in external borrowing since 1974 has permitted Brazil to
greatly soften the effects of external developments upon the levels of
domestic economic activity, the need for prudent management of the resulting
debt inevitably constrains future economic policies. In addition, indications
of imbalances were already evident before 1974; the very high growth rates
were leading to excessive pressure upon both domestic and import demand.
Finally, the Government is now directing increasing attention to broadening



-3-
the distribution of the benefits of growth. All of these factors suggest
more moderate growth rates in the future, although Brazil is still expected
to be among the most rapidly growing of the developing countries. This will
require, however, a continuing large inflow of medium and long-term capital.
Although below the US$5.8 billion average in 1974 and 1975, it is estimated
that the average annual net inflow of medium and long-term capital (that is,
direct foreign investment and net disbursements from official and private
sources) should be on the order of US$4 billion annually in 1977-80.
8.        At the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt reached about
US$11 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 is estimated at 16.7%
which is in line with that of other countries at a similar stage of devel-
opment. Brazil's total (public and private) external debt reached about US$22
billion at the end of 1975, of which about two-thirds, or US$15 billion was in
the form of financial credits. The debt service ratio during 1975 on this to-
tal external debt was about 38%, or about the same as the average for 1969-73.
However, it should be noted that net foreign exchange reserves at the end of
1975 were still large, about US$4.6 billion, equivalent to some four months of
the 1975 imports of goods and non-factor services. While the total debt ser-
vice ratio can be expected to rise somewhat in 1976, if an export growth
rate of around 17% per year in dollar terms can be maintained over the 1975-80
period and if average maturities of new financial credits gradually improve
from six to eight years, the debt service ratio in 1980 can be expected to
return to the level prevailing in the 1969-73 period. Despite Brazil's heavy
debt service burden, the large foreign exchange reserves accumulated over the
past several years ensure that the country will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term, while the country's record of
financial management provides grounds for confidence in the maintenance of
creditworthiness over the longer run.
9.        Despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a
country with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive absolute
poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity of the country's
income distribution problem and accepts the responsiblity for its alleviation.
While like the previous Government it believes that a high rate of growth is
necessary to increase the income of the poor, it does not believe that the
"trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and has formulated a new
policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth". To
implement this policy in addition to pursuing some of the social programs
initiated by its predecessor, the Government is also taking new measures for
improving income distribution. These can be classified into three broad
areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and (c)
wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a favorable,
although marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program envisages investment expenditures of
about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79 and is designed to raise the productivity
and incomes of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of



- 4 -
integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some cases to include
changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that the rural
Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and, therefore, standard-
ized programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 sub-regions cover-
ing large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used
initially. The recently approved Rio Grande do Norte project is one of the
first under POLONORDESTE, and the Government intends to present additional
similar projects for Bank consideration in the future. Active consideration
is being given to a major modification in the state value added tax system
to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer to the poorer states, in
order to give the latter the fiscal resources which they badly need to accel-
erate social programs, particularly in education. In the area of social
services, the Government has created a new Ministry of Social Security in
order to consolidate its social benefit programs and to extend these programs
to a larger share of the population. In 1975 it allowed, under the Social
Integration Program (PIS, a social security fund), the lowest paid workers
covered by PIS, with incomes previously between about US$60 and US$300 monthly,
to withdraw up to one month's minimum wage (about US$60) from their PIS
accounts. The Government is also strengthening the nutrition program which,
under the previous Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is
being given by BNH (the National Housing Bank) to low-income housing, whose
beneficiaries will enjoy better financial terms than in the past. BNH is also
developing a site and services program to encourage construction of self-
helped housing by families which cannot afford builder-constructed units. In
agriculture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency (EMBRATER) will
expand and strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the small-
scale farmer; and the new federal agriculture research institution (EMBRAPA)
is defining its program to include a selection of crops and farming-systems
which will ensure that small-scale farms benefit from research efforts.
Overall, the Government's public investment program for 1975-77 gives high
priority to education, health, agriculture and regional development, which
account for about 30% of total public investment. Finally, the Government
intends to pursue a more liberal wage policy to maintain the real value of the
minimum wage and improve personal income distribution. For this purpose it
has revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage scale.
The real minimum wage increased by 6.5% in 1975 and by 3% in May 1976, based
on the rate of inflation over the previous 12 months.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
11.       As of September 30, 1976, the Bank had approved 65 loans for Brazil,
amounting to US$2,896.6 million, of which 38 had not been fully disbursed.
During FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increas-
ing to an average of US$136 milion per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225
million in FY74 and US$248 million in FY75.    In FY76 disbursements totalled



- 5 -
US$202 million. The decline in disbursements in FY76 was due primarily to the
reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Disbursements are expected to increase
during the next few years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans as of September 30, 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling
US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73-FY74,
nine loans amounting to US$429.7 million; in FY75, five loans totalling
US$426.5 million and in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498.0 million were ap-
proved. So far in FY77, two loans totalling US$123 million have been approved:
US$40 million for a second Minas Gerais water supply and sewerage project and
US$83 million for an Agro-Industries Credit project. We are working actively
with the Brazilians on the preparation of two additional fertilizer projects,
a project in support of the establishment of a non-flat steel enterprise,
a pollution control project for the Sao Paulo metropolitan area, and several
rural development projects, in the Northeast and in state of Minas Gerais.
13.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1975, amounting to US$11 billion, the Bank held about 10%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private) external
debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
IFC Operations
14.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of September 30, 1976, IFC had made 30 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$276.3 million, of which US$32.6 million has been cancelled,
US$22.4 million repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$94.4
million, US$70.8 million represents loans and US$23.6 million equity. A
summary of IFC's investments up to September 30, 1976 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
15.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One of these objectives is to provide part of the very
large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows that Brazil has needed
and will continue for some years to need in order to sustain rapid growth and
achieve its employment creation and regional development objectives. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and steel, the Bank's participation has
helped Brazil obtain additional bilateral resources and private financing in
greater amounts and on more favorable terms. The proposed project is part of
the 1976-1981 investment program of ELETROSUL, which totals US$1.2 billion in
December 1975 prices. The Bank loan would play a complementary role to those
of other lenders, including bilateral credit agencies, and would supplement
power consumers' contributions which would finance 69% of the utility invest-
ment program. It is possible that the proposed power project would be asso-
ciated with a placement with private banks which ELETROBRAS is arranging, and



which would be used to finance investments complementary to those proposed to
be financed by the Bank's loan (see para. 46).
16.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development, a constraint that has become more
critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by supporting projects
designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to
substitute domestic production for imports. As a result of the deteriora-
tion in Brazil's terms of trade and balance of payments in the past two
years, this objective has been placed in the forefront of the Government's
economic policy.   The development of Brazil's bountiful hydroelectric re-
sources is one of the keystones in the Government's energy policy and its
effort to decrease the country's heavy dependence on imported petroleum,
while satisfying an important part of Brazil's growing energy needs, In this
respect the proposed project would enable the combined power system of the
South and Southeastern regions of Brazil to improve its firm generation
capability by about 1600 MW. Also, the Bank's support of Brazil's steel
expansion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional
import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the
country's ample supply of high grade iron ore and the scale of its internal
markets. The balance of payments would also be aided by Bank support of the
fertilizer projects as it will by the recently approved agro-industry credit
project, which aims at increasing exports of agricultural products. In
addition most of the Bank-supported investments in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways -- are designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports.
17.       A third Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maximize public
savings and ensure that they are used economically. The development of a
sound electric tariff regime, which the Bank has continually supported,
assures a high degree of solvency in the power sector and substantial cash
flows to finance new investments and is helping Brazil realize its enormous
power investment needs without undue recourse to external capital. The
high-level training program included in the proposed project is an attempt to
cope with the demand for specialized personnel resulting from the rapid growth
and degree of sophistication of Brazil's electric power sector. One of its
main objectives is to develop personnel and secure the transfer to Brazil of
advanced technology for the planning and management of interconnected electric
power systems. The recently approved development banking project also has as
a primary objective institutional development and policy reform. The insti-
tutional-building objective has also been important in Bank assistance to the
transportation sector where emphasis has been given to the rational selection
of investments, the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement
of financial performance.
18.       Another important lending objective in Brazil is to support the
effort of the Government to identify and develop projects designed to in-
crease productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of the popula-



-7-
tion, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to
alleviate poverty.   The recently approved water supply and sewerage project
for the State of Minas Gerais, was designed particularly to reach the low-
income segment of the urban population. In addition, the nutrition research
and development and agricultural research projects and the Rio Grande do Norte
and Lower Sao Francisco rural development projects were also designed to
assist low income groups. Government authorities, with the collaboration of
Bank staff, are making a particular effort to help Brazil prepare additional
rural development projects to increase the productivity of the small farmer in
the Northeast, and we expect to present in the future an increasing number of
projects of this type.
PART III - THE ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
19.       The proposed loan to ELETROSUL would be the Bank's thirtieth for the
development of the power sector in Brazil and the second to ELETROSUL. The
first Bank loan to ELETROSUL was in the amount of US$70.0 million in 1971
for the Salto Osorio hydroelectric project which is expected to be satisfac-
torily completed by the end of 1976 (Loan 728-BR).
Energy Resources
20.       Brazil has one of the largest hydroelectric potentials in the world,
current-ly estimated at about 150,000 MW of which less than 11% has been
utilized so far. Coal and oil resources are not as abundant; proven reserves
consist of about 3,200 million tons of bituminous and sub-bituminous coal and
about 780 million barrels of petroleum. Total domestic production of crude
oil was 177,000 barrels per day in 1975 representing about 18% of the country's
needs. The estimated total energy consumption in 1975 was about 108 million
tons of oil equivalent and is expected to grow at a rate of about 8% per annum
during the next five years. Oil products represent about 49% of total energy
consumption, natural gas 2%, coal 2%, hydroelectricity about 20%, and other
fuels such as firewood, charcoal and sugarcane bagasse about 27%. The con-,
sumption of these other fuels is expected to remain stable, and their relative
importance to fall steadily in the future. No economically exploitable
deposit of uranium has been found so far but thorium resources in the country
are believed to-be among the largest in the world and in the long term may
contribute to the development of nuclear power.
The Power Sector
21.       The power sector is operated by a number of federal- and state-owned
companies, and one large private company (LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A.).
The sector is administered by the Ministry of Mines and Energy through its
Department of Water and Electric Energy (DNAEE) which performs regulatory func-
tions, including granting licenses for hydroelectric sites, assigning conces-
sion areas, setting tariffs and approving expansion plans.



- 8 -
22.       Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras, S.A. (ELETROBRAS) is a Government
enterprise under the Ministry of Mines and Energy in charge of planning,
technical coordination, financing and administration of the electric power
sector. Power generation and related high voltage transmission are reserved
largely to four ELETROBRAS subsidiaries which cover Brazil's five geographical
regions. They are Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil (ELETRONORTE) cover-
ing the North and part of the Central-West, Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco (CHESF), covering the Northeast, FURNAS-Centrais Eletricas (FURNAS)
covering the Southeast and part of the Central-West, and Centrais Eletricas
do Sul do Brasil (ELETROSUL), the proposed borrower, covering the South. In
addition, a binational company, Itaipu Binacional, formed by Brazil and
Paraguay, is implementing the Itaipu hydroelectric project on the Parana
River.  The power distribution function at the state level is carried out
mainly by utilities controlled by the state governments.
23.       Sector planning and development is carried out by ELETROBRAS, which
prepares investment programs for the sector which cover 5-year periods and,
since 1968, have been revised annually. These programs enable ELETROBRAS
and the Government to apply rational criteria in selecting projects to meet
anticipated demand and to provide for their adequate financial support. Be-
cause the multiannual programs contain information regarding equipment re-
quirements, they also afford manufacturers opportunities for better planning
of their activities.
24.       The transmission function in Brazil is presently shared by the
federally-owned bulk suppliers, the state-owned utilities, and Light. Extra
high voltage (750 and 500 kV) transmission is the responsibility of the
subsidiaries of ELETROBRAS; while medium voltage (138 kV) transmission is
largely handled by the state utilities. Responsibility for high voltage (230
kV) transmission is shared. ELETROBRAS and its subsidiaries have initiated a
substantial effort to plan and develop a national interconnected system that
would permit the economic utilization of the country's bountiful hydroelectric
resources and to help diminish Brazil's heavy dependence on imported oil. The
proposed project would lay the basis for an integration of the power systems
for the South and Southeast regions, which account for 88% of the electric power
consumption in Brazil.
25.       To maximize the economic benefits to the country from the operation
of the generation and transmission facilities, the Federal Government estab-
lished in 1973 the Grupos Coordenadores para Operacao Interligada (GCOI
or Coordinating Groups for Interconnected Operations). The GCOIs are inter-
regional committees that coordinate and direct the operation of the individual
generating plants and transmission systems to attain the maximum efficiency
for the system as a whole from a financial and operational point of view. The
Superior Council of each GCOI is composed of the Presidents of ELETROBRAS and
of the individual concessionaires. The Executive Committee is composed of
the Directors of Operations of the utilities. There are now two GCOIs in
operation: a large group for the South and Southeastern regions and a smaller
one for the Northeastern Region. In its two years of operational existence,
the South-Southeast GCOI has become very successful in directing the operation
of the interconnected system and in obtaining the full support of the related
concessionaires, who realize the advantages of coordinated operations.



- 9-
The South and Southeast Regions
26.       The consumption of electric power in the South and Southeastern
regions has grown at an average annual rate of 12% over the last five years.
In 1975, the Southern region (which includes the states of Rio Grande do Sul,
Santa Catarina and Parana and has 18% of Brazil's population) accounted for
about 12% of the total electric power consumption. The more industrialized
Southeast (which includes the states of Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas
Gerais and Espirito Santo and has 43% of the population) consumed 76%. The
two regions combined, with 61% of the population, accounted for 88% of total
national electric power consumption.   The bulk of this energy was derived from
hydroelectric sources.   By the end of 1976, out of the total 2,350 MW capacity
that would be installed in the South, ELETROSUL, which was only established in
1968, will control about 55% (1,280 MW), including 700 MW in the Salto Osorio
Hydroelectric Plant partially financed by the US$70 million Bank loan of
1971 (Ln 728-BR). The remaining 45% would be controlled by state-owned
utilities. It is expected that the share of installed capacity controlled by
ELETROSUL in the region will gradually increase in the future. In the South-
east, total installed capacity in 1976 should reach 15,800 MW. Over the next
ten years, electric power consumption in the two regions is forecast to grow
at an average annual rate of 10%, with relatively faster growth expected to
occur in the Southern region.
27.       In connection with Loan 923-BR of August 1, 1973, for FURNAS'
Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project the Government undertook to carry out a
Generation and Major Transmission Development Plan for the South and South-
eastern regions. The plan, updated to reflect the 1973-74 slowdown in the
rate of economic growth, forecast the following composition and growth rates
of the load for the South and Southeastern regions over the 1975-1985 period:
(in percentages)
Composition of               1975                  1980               1985
Demand              Southeast   South    Southeast   South    Southeast  South
Industrial                53        46         58        53         60       57
Residential               20        22         18        18         16       16
Commercial                14        17         13        15         12       13
Rural and
Public                  13        15         11        14         12       14
Total                    100       100        100       100        100      100
Total in GWh          47,780     7,410     81,559    14,424    124,437   25,860
Rate of
Growth*               11.2      15.2       11.2      13.9        8.8     12.3
*    Average annual rate of growth for the previous 5 years.



- 10 -
The forecast reflects the Government's policy which gives priority to the
development of industry in the Southern as opposed to the Southeastern region
of Brazil. Although in absolute terms all groups would increase their con-
sumption, the industrial sector would progressively increase its share of the
total consumption in both regions.
28.       To meet the growth expected in the demand for electric energy, the
Brazilian Government prepared a two stage program to expand generation and
transmission facilities in the South and Southeastern regions. For the first
stage the least-cost generation and transmission program includes the instal-
lation in the period 1977-81 of about 9,000-MW of hydroelectric, 700 MW of
thermal and 600 MW of nuclear capacity. The hydro capacity includes two
projects under construction in the South: ELETROSUL's Salto Santiago (1,332
MW) and COPEL's Foz do Areia (1,125 MW). The Inter-American Development Bank
has provided financing for both projects. For the second stage the largest
project in the program is the Itaipu hydroelectric station now under construc-
tion by the Itaipu bi-national corporation. By 1987, these and other works
will increase the installed capacity of the area by about 20,800 MW over the
present level. The expected 1977-87 capacity additions would be made up
of the following mix: hydro 17,200 MW; nuclear 3,000 MW; and conventional
thermal 675 MW. Total installed capacity for the South and Southeastern
regions is expected to reach about 39,000 MW by the end of 1987.
Electric Power Tariffs
29.       Brazilian legislation concerning the electric power sector assures
that electric utilities receive sufficient funds to cover their operating
expenses (excluding financial charges), depreciation, and a comparatively high
rate of return on investment. Since 1966, annual revaluation of assets
against which tariffs are calculated has been mandatory, and the tariff law of
1971 required that utilities earn a statutory return of not less than 10% and
not more than 12%. Tariffs also include a special charge (the so-called
"reversion quota") of up to 5% of most fixed assets, the proceeds of which
are used for investments in the sector and for the "Global Guarantee Fund"
(see para. 30). In addition to the tariff, residential and commercial con-
sumers pay the "sole tax" (imposto unico) which, since 1972, has been
assessed at the rate of about 25% and 30% of their respective tariffs (indus-
trial consumers are exempted). As a result, the electric bill paid by the
Brazilian residential and commercial consumers is among the highest in the
world. The proceeds from the imposto unico are used mostly for sector invest-
ments and are distributed as follows: 37% to ELETROBRAS, 2% to DNAEE, 1% to
the Ministry of Mines and Energy, 50% to the states and 10% to the municipal-
ities. Industrial consumers are required to make a compulsory loan to
ELETROBRAS by purchasing 20-year 6% ELETROBRAS bonds (subject to monetary
correction). The amount of the compulsory loan is equivalent to about 50% of
the tariff for small industrial consumers and to 58% of the tariff for large
industrial consumers. Tariffs in the sector, which are consistent with sound
financial and public utility practices, together with charges such as the
"sole tax", enabled the sector to increase installed capacity at an average
rate of 10.1% per year since 1964, reaching about 20,100 MW in 1975, and to
keep pace with an average annual growth in gross consumption of 9.2% while
improving reserve margins.



30.       In 1974, DNAEE began to use its discretionary powers to effect pro-
gressive equalization of customer rates throughout Brazil. One result of this
action was that rates of return for the comparatively higher cost utilities
fell below 10%. To meet this problem, a Global Guarantee Fund (GGF) was
created in December 1974, as a mechanism intended to assure qualifying utili-
ties a return of up to 10%. At the same time, in order to promote the effi-
ciency of those utilities supported by GGF, DNAEE put into effect a number
of measures which restrict the utilities from increasing their operating
costs, undertaking investments, and expanding markets without DNAEE's prior
approval. We consider the Global Guarantee Fund an acceptable means to
harmonize the rate equalization criterion with the service-at-cost principle.
31.       As in the case of previous Bank loans to power utilities in Brazil,
it has been agreed that ELETROSUL's tariff rates would be set at a level that
would provide the return stated in the Brazilian legislation, i.e., between
10% and 12%. In recognition of the efforts of the Brazilian Government to
equalize electric charges throughout the nation, it has also been agreed that,
in the unlikely event that transfers from the GGF are required, they will be
sufficient to bring ELETROSUL's return to 10% (Sections 5.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement, 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement, and draft supplemental
letter).
32.       The present electricity tariff system is basically rational and
simple and results in a high level of resource mobilization while discouraging
nonessential use of electricity. There are, however, some important aspects
of the .structure (as distinct from the level) of tariffs, that need to be
investigated. In connection with Loans 1257-BR and 1300-BR for the COPEL and
Northeast Power Distribution Projects, the Brazilian Government undertook to
carry out a study of the tariff structure under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Bank. The Government will present to the Bank the results of
such study.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the ELETROSUL Power Transmission
Project" (No. 1265a-BR dated November 5, 1976) is being circulated separately
to the Executiv-e Directors. The main features of the proposed project and
loan are summarized in Annex III. The project was appraised by a mission
which visited Brazil in March/April 1976. Negotiations with ELETROSUL,
ELETROBRAS and the Guarantor were-held in Washington from October 4 to
October 8, 1976. ELETROSUL was represented by two Directors, Messrs. Marcondes
de Mattos and Pereira Ferreira.
The Borrower
34.       The Borrower, ELETROSUL was established in 1968 as a corporation
owned almost entirely (97%) by ELETROBRAS. ELETROSUL is responsible for the
bulk supply of electric energy in the Southern region of Brazil, comprising
the states of Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul. The Borrower is



- 12 -
also responsible for the interconnection of the electric system of those
States with systems in other regions of the country. ELETROSUL's resources
consist of operational revenues from the sale of electricity to the dis-
tribution concessionaires in the area. In 1976, the Borrower's revenues
are expected to reach US$114 million equivalent. ELETROSUL's net fixed assets
in operation, which amounted to US$47 million at 1972 year-end, totalled
US$415 million at year-end 1975. Outstanding borrowings at year-end 1975
totalled US$367 million equivalent of which about 25% were from sources abroad
(Inter-American Development Bank, private banks, bilateral agencies and the
Bank), and 75% from domestic sources. Over the last five years ELETROSUL
has been a fast growing, efficiently operated and financially strong company.
35.       ELETROSUL is administered by a Board of Directors composed of five
directors and chaired by a president. The president and directors are elected
by the shareholders' assembly, except for one director who is appointed by the
state of Rio Grande do Sul. The management of the day-to-day business is
shared by the president and the directors who head the functional departments
of the company. All of the directors have expertise in their functional areas
and are supported by competent professional staff.
36.       ELETROSUL has an accounting and information system which provides
the management with adequate information for decision-making. The budgeting
system is also satisfactory and includes an operations budget projecting
operating income and expenditures, and an investment budget projecting annual
outlays for ongoing projects and studies for future projects. Because admin-
istration costs allocated to the proposed project seem higher than normal,
ELETROBRAS would agree to develop standards for measuring indirect costs in
construction projects and ELETROSUL would agree to develop a program to
implement ELETROBRAS guidelines (Sections 4.01 of the draft Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
37.       Until 1975, ELETROSUL's return on remunerable investments (defined
by Brazilian legislation roughly as net fixed assets in operations, excluding
assets financed by government grants or contributions, but augmented by a
working capital allowance) had been lower than the 10% to 12% statutory return
earned by other utilities in the sector in Brazil. However, in 1975, ELETROSUL
earned a 9.2% return on remunerable investments and a modest transfer from the
GGF brought the utility's return up to the statutory 10%. Excluding receipts
from the GGF and reversion tax payments, ELETROSUL's average return on fixed
assets in operation (the standard Bank measure for projects of this kind) over
the last four years has averaged about 11% which compares favorably with the
financial returns of other Bank borrowers in the power sector. The Borrower's
financial projections over the project period are reasonable and indicate a
satisfactory financial outlook. Based on its 1975 performance it is expected
that the utility will maintain the 10% statutory return without receipts from
the GGF. Its return on average fixed assets in operations over the project
period is expected to average 14%. In order to assure the continued financial
soundness of the company, ELETROSUL would agree to take all necessary steps to
maintain itself eligible for transfers from the GGF whenever it shall be
necessary or advisable to supplement its revenues in order to achieve the 10%



- 13 -
statutory return (Section 5.06(c) of the draft Loan Agreement and draft
Supplemental Letter). Under the eligibility criteria, the utility could not
increase its operating costs, undertake new investments or expand its market
without the approval of DNAEE.
38.       To ensure its future operation on a sound financial basis, ELETROSUL
would agree not to incur debt without the Bank's consent if by so doing its
debt would exceed 66-2/3% of its total fixed assets, and not to incur debt
with an original term of less than 8 years without the Bank's consent if by so
doing the total outstanding principal of such debt would exceed 5% of its
total fixed assets (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). These provi-
sions are similar to those in recent loans for the electric power sector in
Brazil. ELETROBRAS would agree to convert into equity part of its long-term
loans to ELETROSUL in order to enable ELETROSUL to achieve a 1.5 debt service
ratio over the project period (Sections 4.04 of draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and 5.07(b) of draft Loan Agreement).
39.       In the event that ELETROSUL would not have sufficient funds to
assure the timely completion of the project, the Federal Government would
provide them through ELETROBRAS or otherwise (Section 2.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
Project Description
40.       The proposed project has two components.    First, it includes trans-
mission works to be carried out by ELETROSUL, with a total cost of US$197.1
million of which about US$79.7 million would be direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs. The second component of the project is a training program
to be carried out by ELETROBRAS, with a total cost of US$15.4 million of
which about US$4.3 million would be foreign exchange costs.
41.       The transmission component of the proposed project consists of the
transmission facilities required to interconnect efficiently the electrical
systems of the South and Southeast Regions and to develop the first stage
of a 500 kV transmission system in the South. It includes the installation of
about 705 circuit km of 500 kV lines, construction of 1,500 MVA of substation
capacity, expansion of a 230 kV substation, telecommunication equipment and a
computerized system operating center. These transmission investments consti-
tute 12% of ELETROSUL's 1976-81 investment program. The utility's program
also includes ongoing works (54%), future works complementary to the Bank
project (15%), and a working capital increase and interest during construction
(19%). The entire expansion plan of the company constitutes a rational and
well integrated program, and ELETROSUL has agreed that it will not carry out,
without the prior agreement of the Bank, any major expansion project not
included in the 1976-81 investment program (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
42.       The ELETROBRAS training component of the proposed project would
have a far reaching impact on the future development of the sector. The
program, to be implemented between 1977 and 1979, is an attempt to cope with



- 14 -
the demand for specialized personnel resulting from the rapid growth and
degree of sophistication of Brazil's electric energy system. The program
includes the training and upgrading of medium and high level sector personnel
in the fields of: engineering and operations of electric power systems; civil
engineering; extra-high voltage research; and financial administration. The
training would be carried out in electric companies, manufacturing plants,
research laboratories and universities in Brazil and abroad and would include
courses, seminars and internships. In addition to power sector professionals,
ELETROBRAS would select professors of Brazilian universities to participate in
the program with a view to start post-graduate and university-extension level
courses in Brazil in the future. The program would also support the develop-
ment of the GCOI for the Northeast Region (see para 25) and set the basis
for the development of a Supervision and Coordination Center for the entire
system.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
43.       The total cost of the project (both the ELETROSUL transmission
project and the ELETROBRAS training program), as estimated in October 1976,
is US$212.5 million equivalent, with an estimated foreign exchange component
of US$84.0 million equivalent. The estimate of foreign costs is based on the
assumption that Brazilian suppliers would be awarded up to one-half of the
value of the contracts for the project to be placed through international
competitive bidding. The cost estimates include physical contingencies as
is customary with this type of works. Adequate price contingencies in US
dollar terms have been added to cover actual and expected price increases as
follows: 9% in 1976, and 8% in 1977-1979 and 7% in 1980-81. The proposed
loan of US$82.0 million equivalent would cover the US$77.7 million of the
foreign exchange cost of ELETROSUL's project not already financed by other
sources (US$79.7 million less US$1.7 million of consulting services financed
by the US Export-Import Bank and US$0.3 million from other sources), and the
foreign exchange cost of ELETROBRAS' training program (US$4.3 million).
44.       With respect to the ELETROSUL transmission component of the project,
financing other than the proposed Bank loan would be provided by ELETROSUL's
internal cash generation, reinvestment of dividends, capital contributions
and loans made by ELETROBRAS and other internal sources. However, the
financing of the transmission project can be best viewed in the context of
the overall ELETROSUL capital investment program and financing plan during
the project period (1976-81), which can be summarized (in constant December
1975 prices) as follows:



- 15-
1976-81
(US$ million)        % of Total
CAPITAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM /1
Construction expenditures:
IBRD project                              132.9                12
Complementary works                       621.1                 54
Other works                               173.5                 15
Total construction expenditure          927.5                 81
Interest during construction                137.7                 12
Increase in net working capital              86.5                  7
Total capital investment              1,151.7               100
FINANCING PLAN /1
Net internal cash generation                149.0                 13
Capital contributions                       331.7                 29
Total consumer direct
contribution                         480.7                 42
Borrowings:
Proposed IBRD loan /2                      55.8                 5
ELETROBRAS loans                          311.7                27
Other foreign loans                       150.8                 13
Other domestic loans                      152.7                 13
Total Borrowings                        671.0                 58
Total financing                       1_151.7                100
/1   Constant December 1975 prices.
/2   Does not include:   US$4.3 million for ELETROBRAS training program or the
provision for price contingencies of US$22.2 million.
45.       About 69% of the capital investment during the period would be
covered by resources contributed directly and indirectly by power sector con-
sumers, consisting of net internal cash generation, reinvestment of dividends,
capital contributions and loans made by ELETROBRAS from the "sole tax" and
compulsory loan proceeds, and other internal sources. "Other loans" represent
drawdowns of existing loans' for on-going works and new loans to help finance
works other than the Bank project and which ELETROSUL expects to obtain from
bilateral credit agencies and domestic financial institutions. Foreign loans
include the undisbursed amounts of the Bank loan 728-BR and of the IDB loan
for the Salto Santiago hydro-generation project. As noted, the cost estimates
and financing plans shown in paragraph 44 do not include an allowance for
price contingencies. Funds for these contingencies would come principally
from future tariff increases, additional borrowings, and provision for price
contingencies in existing loans and in the proposed Bank loan.



- 16 -
46.       ELETROSUL currently plans to finance part of its 1976-81 investment
program from additional external borrowings that ELETROBRAS hopes to obtain
through a co-financing arrangement with the proposed Bank loan, similar to that
arranged in December 1975 for the CSN Steel project (R75 - 103/2). We believe
that the Bank's association would allow ELETROBRAS to obtain the required
additional funds from the private international market on terms more favorable
than it could otherwise obtain. The parties concerned hope to conclude the
transaction during 1977 and in due course we would seek the approval of the
Executive Directors for appropriate amendments to the Loan Agreement.
47.       ELETROSUL would relend US$4.3 million of the proceeds of the Bank
loan, on the same terms, to ELETROBRAS to help finance the foreign exchange
cost of a training program benefitting the power sector as a whole. ELETROBRAS
would finance out of its own resources the local cost of the program totalling
US$11.1 million equivalent.
Engineering and Project Execution
48.       ELETROSUL has contracted the services of Themag Engenharia for the
design of the extra-high-voltage transmission system. Themag is a leading
Brazilian firm with experience in high voltage transmission studies. Montreal
Engenharia S.A., another qualified Brazilian firm, has been contracted for the
preparation of the civil engineering designs, specifications and bidding
documents. ELETROSUL has agreed to continue to employ consultants acceptable
to the Bank to carry out the engineering required for the project (Section
3.02 of the. draft Loan Agreement). ELETROSUL would be responsible for project
supervision.
49.       A total of 916 engineering man-months and 1,276 man-months of ser-
vices of other technical personnel consultant time is expected to be required
for the transmission component of the project. The average base cost (includ-
ing overheads but excluding travel) is estimated at US$4,820 per engineering
man-month and US$2,238 per man-month for other technical personnel. The train-
ing component also includes 92 man-months of services for the training of some
sector engineers and the software design and development of a national coordi-
nation center covering the South-Southeast and North-Northeast interconnected
systems. The average base cost of the services is estimated at US$5,400 per
engineer man-month.
50.       The procurement process for the project equipment started in June
1976 with the advertising and issuance of specifications; orders are expected
to begin to be placed by November 1976 which would permit construction to
start in early 1977. The project is expected to be completed in June 1981.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       All of the equipment for the project would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Manufacturers whose bids contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at
least 50% of the value of the bid would be given a 15% margin of preference or
the applicable import duty, whichever is less. Brazilian suppliers of the
items included in the project are reasonably competitive and, as stated in



- 17 -
para. 43 above, are expected to win up to one-half of the value of goods pro-
cured through international competitive bidding. Contracts for civil works
and erection would be awarded after local bidding under ELETROSUL's normal
procedures. These procedures are satisfactory and would not significantly
affect the cost of the project.
52.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against appropriate
documentation for 100% of foreign expenditures on imported goods or 100% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods and for 100% of the foreign
cost of a stipulated set of consultancy services and 100% of the foreign
expenditures of the training program.
Project Benefits and Rate of Return
53.       The proposed project would interconnect the power systems of the South
and Southeastern regions of Brazil and would provide the facilities required
for the first phase of an extra-high voltage (500 kV) grid in the South. The
interconnection component of the project would integrate the complementary
hydrological systems of the South and Southeast, increasing by about 1600 MW
the firm power generation capability of the two most densely populated areas
of Brazil. It will allow the two regions to benefit from the fact that during
the months of the year when hydroelectric plants in the Southeast have their
lowest peak capability, those in the South can operate at full capacity. Also,
the Project would help meet at the least economic cost the expected energy
deficit in the Southeast region with surplus energy from the Foz do Areia and
Salto Santiago hydroelectric plants in the South until Itaipu comes into oper-
ation, and allow for power exchanges between the two regions thereafter. A
segment of FURNAS' 750 kV transmission system from Itaipu to Sao Paulo
would complement the interconnection works included under the proposed proj-
ect. ELETROBRAS has informed the Bank that it will undertake or cause to
be undertaken the timely construction of that segment of the Itaipu trans-
mission system. The facilities for the first phase of the extra-high voltage
grid would, beginning in 1979, help ELETROSUL to meet the incremental energy
requirements of the Southern region with electric power generated at the Salto
Santiago and Foz do Areia hydroplants currently under construction. The
transmission grid will also improve the reliability of supply in that region.
This portion of the project would complement the distribution facilities in
the state of Parana being financed under Loan 1257-BR of May 19, 1976 to
COPEL.
54.       The interconnection component of the proposed Bank project was
compared with the alternative of building a coal-fired thermal plant in the
Southeast that was considered as the second best solution for meeting anti-
cipated energy deficits in the Southeast during 1981-1984. The analysis
showed that the interconnection alternative is substantially more economical.
In this respect the Federal Government has advised the Bank that it does not
intend to authorize the building of any facility to meet the expected energy
deficits which would affect the economic justification of the interconnection
alternative. The first phase of the extra-high voltage grid has also been
designed so as to minimize the cost of investments, installation and operation
of the system. In estimating the return on investment for the interconnection



- 18 -
component of the project, the benefits were appraised as the savings in fuel
costs in the operation for base load of existing thermal facilities in the
Southeast made possible by transfers of hydro-electric energy from the Southern
region; the value of energy curtailments that would be unavoidable even with
maximum output of thermal facilities; and the value of about 1600 MW additional
firm capability gained by interconnecting the South-Southeast system. The
revenues from sales of energy less the related distribution costs have been
conservatively used as a proxy for the value of the energy curtailments that
would have to be imposed in consumption without the project. The value of the
1600 MW average additional firm capability was estimated as the cost of the
equivalent gas turbine generating capacity that would have to be installed
without the interconnection. In estimating the return on investment for the
first phase of the extra-high voltage grid the benefits were appraised as the
value of the expected energy sales flowing through the facilites over their
economic life.   For both components, costs considered are the facilities
construction costs, the marginal generation and distribution costs associated
with the energy flowing through the facilities and the expected operation and
maintenance costs. In the case of the interconnection component the economic
cost of advancing by three years the construction of the segment of the 750 kV
Itaipu-Sao Paulo line that would complement the project was also considered.
Based on this analysis the return on investment for the interconnection
component (costing US$121 million) was estimated at 29.3% and for the extra-
high voltage grid (costing US$76 million) at 24.2%. The average economic rate
of return on these two components which account for 93% of total project cost,
is 27.0%; this aggregate rate of return excludes the training component for
which a rate or return is not quantifiable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Centrais Eletricas do
Sul do Brasil S.A. - ELETROSUL, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank, the draft Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment between the Bank, ELETROBRAS and ELETROSUL, the draft supplemental letter
on ELETROSUL's rate of return, the draft Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a
draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Features of the draft Loan, Guarantee and
Subsidiary Loan Agreements of special interest are referred to in paragraphs
31, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, and 48 of this report.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
November 5, 1976






ANNEX 
Page 1 of 4~ pages
TABLE 3A
BRAZIL                *sOcIA    INDICATORS DATA SH4EET
LAND AREA (THOU RM2).........................
...............                        ~~~~~~BRAZIL                           RAEFERENCE. COUNTPIES 11470)
TOTAL      8512.0                                          4OST RECENT
AGIaO.          .                           960       2970    WSIMAI!            ME I CO         lIRIJGIIAY       JAPAN ~
GNP PER CAPITA (US%)                         300         50.         1100780.                          96.0         60.
POPULATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS
ROP)JLATIi1N (MIFIYR, MILLION)  ~~~~69.A     9?*M        107.0                50.14         2.7         (3
POPlLsTVjii DENSITY
PER SGL'APE Km                            P.          12.0        13.0                 ?6.0        i5.0        282.0
PER SQUAP. KM. AGNIC. LAND                51.0        66.0                             52.0         18.0       1575.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE RIRTH4 RATE PER TWIUSANI)          10.8         38.1.       37.1                 1.3.8        22.1         17.5
CRUDE DEAlH NRATE PEP    AINI)SANT       11.7          9.9          8.8                10.2          9.27.
TNFANT MORTALITY RATE (/Tkn'U)          IMO.0       110.0                              69.0       A4.0          1.12
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 19RTH (YRS)           56.0         59.7        61.L                 61.0         6N'~         71.1
G,ROSS REPRDDOICTI01N RATE                ?,6          2.6         2.S                  S.1          2.0         2.0
POPULATION GROOTH RATE (t)
TOTA,L                                    3 .0         2,q         2,9                  3.s          0.7         1.0
~IRPAN                                    S.5          S.m         1..3                 5.5                     22.0
)PRRo' PflP,LATTON (0 IF TOTALI            06.0        56.0    5.1            59.1                               . 84.41
AGF STRUCTUPE (PERCENT)
0 TO tA YEARS                           03.0        02.0         1.1.7                06.0        2A.6         P0U.0
25 TO 60 YEARS                           50.0        sc5.0        55.1                 50,0        60.0         65,9
65 YEARS AND 3VER                         3.0          3,0         3.2                  0.0         R,0          7.2
AGE DEPENDfNCY RATI)                        0.9          o            0. a.0                           0. 6        0.5
ECINEHIEI 0EPENDENCY RATIO                   1.6         1,5          1.2 /a              1,0          1.0         0.6
FAMILY PLANNI.4In.
ACCE000RS (CIJwULATIVF, THO1IJ)                     250,0            ,                 55.5
USFRS (5 liF MARRIE1 WdOMEN)               ..1,6                     ...
EM 'LnrY ME T
TOTAL LAMOR FORCE (1.4OUSAND)           2P7n0.O     29600.0       37750,0             1 30 00 .0   1100.0       S3300.0
LASfnR F)RCE TN AGRIC7)LTuRE (%i           52. 0        404.0          .                  0.0         I7.~ A      I9 ,0
JNEMPL~1YEFnI (I F LA0519 FIRCE)             .                        ,.                              8.0          I.
INCOmE DISTRIBUTION
0 OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D MV                      a     350 
HIGOW~    5% OF WSsoWz.S                 28.0         35   / aI78                                   1,:   a      I4:
1IUST 20%OF HUSxHOLDS      I      ~       .o   a     6.    a                          00?,M:       290             6
WW~E8T 2~0YOF HDSSHOLD                     1. 0        3.0  a12                                      75         1.
10.0 a~  ~     ~~2.                  1. a         2.
DISIRIMUTTON UF LAND .TWNEQRHiP
I OwNED MY Top l0t 'iF nwNERS                           050,.
A OWNED MT SMALLEST 10% 1IwNEPS                          I .5          ,                    .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
D00ULAIION PER QHYSiCIOJ                 P1 7 . 0     2950.0t      1660.0              I a10 . 0    900.0        bA0.0
POPULATION PFR NLIRS1R. PERSON                .       3300.0      ?Rpo.?00             1,70.0      1560.0)       i(00,
POPULATION PER IT8PITAL RED               2 75,.0      260.0                            q .90.0)    260 .0        A0,0
PER CAPITA SIIPPL.Y IF
CALORIES (3 LOF REILU7REMENTS)          I202,0       109q.0      21 00      ~         1 i0 .0     207.0        06.0
PROTEFIN (GRAMS PEN DAY)                 61 ,0        60, .0      65 :0 h_650                 .0                l b   0
-OF W4NICN ANIMAL AND PUILSE           S8.0        39.0           o.2M0l 4,                                   0n
DEATH RATE (iITHiI) &GES 1.0..4..                                                         9.8          1 . 1        . 0
EDJCAT ION
AD)JUSTED ENRZILLM4EN7 0011:1
PRIMARY SCHnOL                          100,0 a~  ~   87.0        71. /O .ce          106.0       110.0        101.0
SECONDARV ICHTInL                         I * 0      28.0/d      74. C0               2 3 .0      59.0         91 .0
YEARS OF SCHOOJLING PROVInED
(FIRST ANn SECTND LEVEL)                 13.0         11.0        13.0                 la.()       12.0         12,0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLmENT
I% OF 4ECON(YARY)                        19 .0a       I7.         250o                 P4J,        21,0         20.0
ADULT LITTRACY RATE (01                   LS2,0         65.0          ..7,0                          9.           99,0
MOUSING
";;S;NS PER 9)0n4 (AvERAGFl                   .            .0         1.) /b               P.2                      I .0
ICCUPIED r)WELLiN4rS 4'I0HflU
PIPET WA1ER (0.                                       7 3.0 /c    b7.n /b. f           62.0 A         ..          . 0
ACCESS Tl1 ELECTRICITY
(0 OF ALL DoF.LLINGq)                      ,.        0.0          S3.o~ /b9.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
In ELECIRICIIY (U                           ...0                  11,0 . o/             8.0
CORSI14iMToN
-90000 R~ECIVFRs (PER T.OU) POP)            66.0         h0,0         61 .0              27 6,        50 36. 0    551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER 719L01 POP)              7. 0       25,0n       31.0                 25. 0        [.5.0       84. 0
ELECTRICITY (XW.4OYR PE    CAP)           3?5.0        1191.0      681.0                567.C        762. 0     3391.0
4EwSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   3.0          P.7          2.6                 3.1          7.2        t",9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pagee
NOTES
Unoless otherwi.eacnted, data for 1960 tefer to any year between to 1959-1961, for 1970 between 1968-70, and for Hoot Recest fEstimate between 1973 and 1975.
5 Japan baa bees Selected a. an objective country since the Brazilian Gove rmen,t ha.oe     hew  particular interest in Japan's developmental emperience; also
the two goverrsoente have conducted joint Studiee to identify poseible futur.e economic problema of gracil on the boots of the emperience Is Japan.
BRAZIL.               1960    /   Econceically active population;      lb  7-10 and 11-17 yacre of age reepectively.
1970    IaE.comically active population;        lb  Hosopital pereonnal;    /0  Ineide only;    Id   12-if years of age.
MOOT RECENT ESTIM4ATE:     Is  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        lb  1972,    /c  1971;    /d  1969-71
average;    /e  7-14 and 15-17 years of age reepectively;      /f  Toeide only.
mEXICO                1970    /a   1964-66,   lb  Inside only.
UJRUGUAY              1970    /a  1997.
R9, July 12, 1976
DEFINXITIONS OF SOCIAL INDITCATORS
Lund Area (thou b-2)                                                                      Population ear nursing pereon - Population divided by nonber of practicing
Total- Total Surface urea comprising land area and inland waters.                            n-le and fenale graduate nuSes     'trained" or "certified" nusres, and
Agic. -most recent estimnate of agricultural area sued temporarily or                        asmiliary personnel with turaining or onperienc..
per-anently for crops, pastures, marbet &. kitchen gardeno or to Ie.                   Population per hospital bed - Population divided by nmaber of hospital beds
fallow.                                                                                   availsble in public and private general and specisiiaed hospital and
rohubilitation centers; eucludos nuruieg homes end establishmnets for
GNP Per capita (US$) - fGNP per capite estimates at macbet prices, caicu-                    custodial and preventive care.
lated by acme conversion method as World Banb (1973-75 boatis); 1960,                 Per capita sup plv of calories 'I of requirmenots) - Computed from     energy
1970 and 1975 data.                                                                      equivalent of met food supplies available in cosotry per capita per dsy;
available supplies compriae dones tic production, imports less eaporto,
Populotion and vital Statietice                                                              and changee in stack; met supplies eoclsde animal feed, seeds, quanti-
population (mid-yr. million) - AS of July first:     if not savalable,                       ties used in food Processing and losses in distribution ; requirements
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970 aod 1975 data,                             were estimated by FA0 basod on physiological moods for normal activity
and health co-uidsring environmental tenperatura, body weights, age and
sea distributions of population, and allowing lOT for waute at house-
PPoosLaion density.- setrsonata los    Mid..year population per square kiln-                 bold level.
ma ter (100 bectaros   o f tota ltara.                                                 Per caPits Supoly of protein (Rgsm net day) - Protein content of por
Ponulario densitY - Per Square km, of acric. land - Computed as above for                    capita net Supply of food per' day, net supply of food is defined aSe
agricultsral land only.                                                                   above, requirements for all cutries established by UISDA Economic
it-I St-tiatic.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Research Sorvicee provide fur a minimum allowance of 60 franc of total
Vtl  Iutscc                                                                                   protein per dsy, and 20 frame of unimul and Pulse protein, of which
Crude birth rate mer thousand - Annual lion births per thousand of mid-                       10 graSshudbe aniaprtn;               heesadda         relwr      hntho
yard pof  lrin    te-e     risticl tic aegen sding in 1960 end 1970,                      of 75Erams of total protein and 23 gram      of animal protein as on
an  ive-year avrage end ing in 1975 for most recent estimate,                          average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food lur-y.
Crude death rate per thous.and - Annusl deaths per thousand of mid-year                   Par canita protein suppl.y iron an   s  and pulsa - Protein supply of food
population ; ten-year arithmeatic avrages ending in 1960 and 1970, aod                    derived iron animals and pubes n      grm   er day.
fiv-year average ending in 1975 for mot recent estimate.                               Death rate f/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
Infant mortality rats i/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of                   i-4 years,tocide         inhsaggru,           ugsedsan          niaorf
age per thousad.   iv   brhs.                                                             malnutrition.
Lif emetar        t birth fyr') -Average number of yeare of life reinaiing
at birth; cualy fiveyear aerages ending is 1960, 1970 and 1975 for                     Education
doveloping countries.                                                                  Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ageu as
fross reoroducrion rate - Average somber of lIve daughters a woman will                       percantage of primary schoci-age population ; Includes cbildren aged
bea   in her normal reproductive period if sha esperiences present age-                   6-11 years hut adjus ted for different lengths of primary education;
specfic  ertility rates, su-lly five-year averages ending in 1960,                       for countries with universal education, enrollmet may ecceed 1017.
1970 and 1 975 fur developing countries,                                                   ic.omppl           r    eo    raoeteofco             colao
Popuatio frwib ate(TI - total - ComPound annual growth rates of mid-                Adjuosted enrollment ratio - sacodary School - Computed as above,
Year populat,ion for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-75.                                       Secondary education requires at least four years of approved primary
Poc,ulatIon _rwhrate MT     - aches - Computed like groth rate of total                       instruction; provides g ..oral, vocational or te..th-r tr-intnf
population ; different definitioma of urban areas ey affect compara-                       inocruction forpupils of 17 to 17 years of age; coreuponde-ce
bility of data among countries.                                                           core      r   eeal       aldd
dra  ouaIn(         fttl       - Ratio of urban to totai population;                     Years of schooling 'providedc (fdirst and second levels) - Total years of
different definitions of urban areas nay affect comparability of date                      caln;a         eodr       ee,vctoa           ntuto        a   epr
Among srcounteris Soduidr-(-4              e                                                   lly orcompletely eaciuded.
AeStutr      acn)-Cide              (04 year), working-age (15-64 years),                Vocatioawl enro1lment fT of Secondary) - Vocational institutions
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                    include technical, industrial or other programs which operate
AR.e dependency ratio - Ratio of ppulatio     un-der 15 and 65 and over to                    independently or aSe departments of Secondary institstions.
those of age   15 throuh 64.                                                           Adult literacy rate (TI  - Literate adulto (able to read and Write) as
Economic dependency ratio   - Ratio of POpulation under 15 and 65 and wver                    percentage of toctal adult population aged iS years and over.
to the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Fami,ly olanin    - accptors cm    lative to)- Cumulative member ofHoin
accptos o  bithcocntrol devIces under auspice    of nainl      aiy                 Person  ver room (average) - Average member of persons per room in
plannng prgram  inc  icptin                                                            cup ied conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings eoclude
Family panmim a-usrs C.Tofema,rried wmel-percenteges of married                          non-permnenont Structures and unoccupied parts..
women of child-bearing age (15-44 yaar.) who use birth-control devices                  Occupied dwellinas without piped water (TI - Occupied conventional
to all married women in Same age group.                                                    duellinga is urban and rural areas Withou.tinside or outside piped
E.pl.ym.t                                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wter facilities as percentage of 511 occupied dwellings.
Emp:loyment                                                                                Ae... to s1setriciry(      fald    elns       - ConvectionaL dwellings
Ttllbrforce (thousan d) - Economically active persons, including                       with elcticty        inivig quarce!rn as percent of total dwellings in
armed frces and u     emlyed hut eacluding housewives, Students, etc.;                    ubnand rrlaes
definitions in various countries sre not ct-parable                                      urbnuralawe lis    aron etdas lcrciyi)-Cmutda                bv.o
Labor force in agriculture (TI - Agricultural labor force (i       amn,Rural dwellings ocnly.dt                             letiiy()          optd      sbv        o
forestry  hunting and.fishing) as percentages of total labor force.
UnemployedyC   of labor forc) - Unemployed are     ususly defined as pesronsCoe                   etn
who are able and wil ling to take a job, out of a, job on a given dsy,                  Rsi eeies(crto             op       l tpso       rcies      o    aiobmd
remuined out of a job, and seeking work for e specified minisomm period                  castsi  t geeivrsaraltpoulic per thouAndtye of Populaion;  fo eaaldes brd
notfercendedin  itone week  emay lotyed cmarable  o betwee   counrie dmpltoy               uniene      re ceivers icn cmuntries end in years when registration of
ditfferen deftinitions oS   neplo uvyedadsuc        fdes,..        mly                     radio Set   wSe In effec, data for recent years may not he conparable
ment ofice satistcs, saple suveys,compulsory unemployment insurance,            Since must 'countries abolished licensing.
Pa...enaer cars (per thou oat) - Pass enger cars comprise motor cars
Incm distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash Sand kind)                     sealing less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and
received by richest iT, richest 2OT, P-opest 20t and Poorest 405 of                        militery vehicles.
households.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Electricit (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consemption of industrial, com-
d                                                              1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eca, public and privste electricity in kilowatt hours per cepita,
Distrib.ution  fland mn-er-hidl - Percentages of leand ownd by weslthiest                     generally based onproduction data, without allowance for lossea in
lOT and poorest 105 of land owners,                                ~~grids but allowing for imports and enports of electricity.
Re,lth SdNlt,lti                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Newsprint fka/yr oar cap) - Per capita annual consumption in kilograms
Popula tion Per physician - Population divded by member of practicingesiadfr                                  dostcpdtmplsntmotsfnsrnt
PhYsicians qualified from a medical School at university level.



B&AlijC9 OF paybiS. 582U88L ASSISTANCE AND8 DEBT                                                             .llNt   I
(Io ucllitoo  of U.S. dolla, at current price-l                                                              P.A. 4 of 4
A C T U AL E.                                             T.(to)                                P 0 0 J 0  C T E D  a
1971            1972             1973            1974             1975             1976            1977             1978             1979             1980              1985
A. Saar      of Balance of PaytooCo
1.   Dicporco (foci. 52)                                   3,175          4,272            6,398            8,471            9,255           9,936           Z2,079            14,879          17,817          21.365            48,575
2.   I.cperc  (tool. N225)                                 4,028           5,205           7,577           14.678           14.296          12.982           14,433            16,372          18,553           21.566           47,254
3.   Roe..rc   Dalooco-                                    - 853           - 933           - 981          -6,207           -5,041          -1,046           -2,354            -1,493            - 736            - 201            1.321
4.   SoNt Fncor lervico Income                               468           -561            -754             - 917          -1,711          -2,235             2,5563            2,816         -3.031             3 262          -4.428
1. Bet Ict-roo   On5nnecl                                 3 02         -339             -514               612            t.1439        -1,875           -2,2768             2,506         .2.691          -2,892              3 843
2. -fot             I.-ateo   one-118                                 -161             -198            -248           -   2315             240         -    265          -   290             3 20             350               561
5. 004cr Factor Ocvtoo I-ce                             -48            -41              -22              -16            -    37         -    20               20                20         -    20         -     20          -    20
0.    Carroct T-noofore (Net)                                 14               5              27                1                -               10              10                10              10               10               l0
6.    BIn-c   no Curret Aooouout                          1,307           1,489         - 1,6088           7.122          -6.751          -5,271           -4,907            -4,299            3 3,757          3,2453         -3.097
7,    Private Dit-c    cotot                                 168            318              040              087              090             900            1,000             1,100           1,265            1.455            2,540
Median ond tong To.- L-ec
98.   ROjabae-tco                                            411             425              562             947              907              999           1,170            15,555           1.322            1.337            1.535
9.:   Ao,rte-ttn-                                          - 212           - 188            - 217           - 191            - 273            - 289            - 307            - 337           - 443            . 547           -1.163
1.  Nec Diobatooo199                                                      257              343              756             634              710              071               910            679              790               372
D1 iobrneon.1,676                                                       4,091            3,988           6.080            5,974            4,592            5,356             5,674          6.1FA            6,270             8,739
12.    AaortLco-io                                          - 981l          1,210         -1,529           .1,716           .1,068          -2,001             2,720             3 500           4 79I            4 509          .6,543
13.    Net DIbt.-rtcocc                                       990           2,001           0,469            4,364            4,106            2,511           2,636             2.174           1 9959           1 761             2,196
14.    U. enf Il? Re..o.rcon                                   46              47                -               7-                                -                                 ---
05.    Short-torn Capital Tro-ootfoc                          507              47           - 130              4604             424              400             400               200             200              200-
16.    Cn$00t1 Troe...otinno NEI                             - 0              398             243            - 285            - 255                -               -                 -               -                --
17.    C,-a.g In R-cer--e (- - lrce)-530                                 -2,439           -2,179               956              950              750               -              - 93           - 545            - 753          -1,810
18.    F_roieo Dohooge Ocrr-oc
(Cd of PerIod)                                        2.010          4,457            6.636            5,700           4,750            1,000            4,000             4,093           4.638           5 392            11.812
B. Scant aed Lo-   Cocnicaao
1.    Tota 0.1 1&T  ..n                                    2.326          5,203            4,926            7,012            7,1 00ACT                                                                            A
1.1.  200PD                                                  256            455              199              140              4826
I,2.  I                                                      100            182              242              18               21           DEBT 5AIM 0101Z 1a040                               1972           1973         1874        1975
1.3.  invrxaett                                              2025            380             4.40             4715             51255
1.4.  Sappliorn                                              496             694             857            1,8t,376
1.5.   - boe96                                                                                3285                              -       A.  Oodtoa-od boo1-To      Det"
1.6.  Fino..otol Credito                                   1,441          3,396            3.151            5,103            4,630               (.I,ce     ol)
C. Me-ondocT--1                                                                                                                                     Total Oct Ontotoading (eod of poriod)        9,521           251766                    111
I,  Pleatolo   Crodit                        5,5528          7,046       11,211       14,561
1,    Soo    Elenoc  of totol C-tniin tnet                     1.5             2.0              2.5             2 5              2 5             2.  Otbo-   (B11. Mltti. BlotdeSoPPl-Oe     3,992           4,723        5,953        6,1
2, Avrge Tetreet (Percen.t)                               6.5             7.4             8.0              9.5              9.5             3.  Pablic ca-ulcyloatood-                                  646          853         1,1
3.     voa9    Ma tuity (Scare)                                6.1             6.8              7.2              9.0             9.9             4.  Prit:va   d Pb--y                                        6.075        8,633        8,710
2.  Total Debt Oorittc                           1,007           2.586        3,277        3,943
1.  Total Interet                              409             040        1,370        1,904
O.tst..ding De.-  - 31, 191,  2:  N~~~~~~~~t                               359             514          652        1,439
P.  Entcro1 lobe (Dloharced Only)                                                         A_t                               percen               3.  Public Debt s-rIce                             --              --         1.707        1,530
1.  1BRD                                                                              1,094                                 5.2         B.   Debt Ourdec
2. Othor 161tl.ttloer1                                                                  416                                 2.0                  T.      b   .i.Ri                                423.                        874
5. Gnvor-enO                                                                          2,567                                12.1              1.  TtlDb        evt     ai                          423.                        074.
4,  Oppltoro                                                                          1,910.                                                 2.  Totol Debt Sovion Ratio.1                      _47.9          _42.2         41.6         45.2
8  .. inctlCote161                                                                                                        0,3.Public Dcbt Oo-r50                    Ratio                     --                           15.2         16.7
6. Fi- Li.1 C-dit.                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~14,561                      68.0             4.   Liqaidity Ratio-2542.                                                       31278
7.  006cr                                                         5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~92     1.S.                 Total Debt Snr...  iog'3.25.                                                 3.1          3.2
0.  Total NST Dbt                                                                    21,71100.0                                              6.  Public Debt SSyvtcc/CDP2'                      --                            12           11.2
9.  CTal. Publi . HT Dobt                                                             11,461I                              54,1              7.  Tntel DOD/G02-16.                                              16.11647.
S.  Debt ProfIle                                                                                                                             C. Teri
1.  Total Debt Servior 1976-SD/Total DOD end c    1975                                                                                       1   I. te....t on Total 000/Total DOD               174             8.8         10.9         1D.5
113.8                                            2.   Total Dobt Oreic/TotL1 DOD                     19.8            20.6         19.1         18,6
s. Dpendeny Radon     foc 961,TDebt
1.  Cron ;Diebvftenetd/DIPrtO (imd. 821)           06.0            60.2         47.9         40.1
2.NccTraee/          o     (lcd. 1NF0)              20.5           26.0         25.5         20 .5
3.  Net Troeferfiro... Ditb-rocteO                 50.2            43.3         53.4         42.7
C,  En ...are
I   IBR0D D10b./Oro... Total 01L6.                  3.6             4,2          3.5          3.6
2.  T000 DOD/Total DO0                              5,1             5,1          1,1         5.2
3.  100D Dnbt Seoic-/Tota1 Debt Seco                2,7             2.7          2,6         2.4
2/Debt Soccti   ag   porten t of -opott  pl.. resrtd It note.. of 3 conch. toport..Iec1.17
3/  -o-ocaCot 2973 prtona.
-- Not Acatlable.
(c)  moo  toicte   od projctionS cor     proprod In early 1976 and refl-ot ebo Gre-r-ie          inet-ot-   of that tire.
Iv 06  even, theOnvoreect' e  ittictv. ..n.a..  bahd loon iopet thoe entloipeted; it PCtitOlt,. , tootle of ontpur,
toportc, botenteo cad it-tcottnto     -e-ec     ore .11 mop.otod toocceed 1o1e promoted nde.The projectio.- cli
0100 bo-   to ho rrleed n. . rec.. otf de-elpenete to 1976.      (Sec paragraph   6 end 7 or. "The DEco-y").



F - OU"-?F  Irooooo rr - a r. 0  or oo  rr r00  @-_O.a
0';:~~~ ~ ~ ~ a>F  -      "W?o  =   _ * ~ -r   >gi_0t- 
. .   .  . .   . - - -
2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ n 28 00  00 0   000 Wo   _'   o FFor  W0 - _ 9 7 o * g_ Wr
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0000 ,00 .00 o...0 0  0...t *00,,Xw o~r w~>)  ,=  , 
0  OooOO w 0  000000  0  9     00 0 0   -  _qW~>_W 
IZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
o~~~~~~ _0             00 .         0 F o Ir   0  00  0000   00 0s  r  f 
om__w ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 9-_   9"w 
,,  ,  ,  Fo_ooo  0o 0000 _~,_  0
00  00                    11~~~ 6 1, 6 
0Z0  . _ 0 ...  ..0.  _r    0.
~~~~~~~~~~~~  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vV



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30,1976)
Loan                                                         Amount Less   Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower                      Purpose  Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
Twenty-Seven Loans Fully Disbursed                               705.3
403    1965    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito I                         Power         57.0        0.1
474 /1 1966    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito II                        Power         39.0        0.7
677    1970    Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Marimbondo                         Power         80.0        4.8
728    1971    Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio              Power         70.0       10.5
755    1971    Brazil                               Education      8.4        3.7
756    1971    Brazil                               Ports         45.0       32.3
757    1971    Superintendencia de Agua e
Esgotos da Capital                 Water Supply  22.0        1.0
758    1971    Companhia Metropolitana de           Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo            Control       12.0        5.2
786    1971    Rede Ferroviaria Federal             Railways      46.0        5.2
797    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional       Industry      64.5        4.4
812    1972    Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                             Industry      63.0        9.3
813    1972    Brazil                               Roads         89.0         2.4
828    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista       Industry      64.5        5.7
829    1972    Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Sao Simao                Power         60.0       11.0
853    1972    Brazil                               Land Settl.    6.7        5.9
854    1972    Brazil                               Roads         51.0         .9
857    1972    Banco do Brasil                      Grain Storage 23.7        5.5
868    1972    Brazil                               Livestock     26.0        5.5
887    1973    LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade       Power         20.0        17.4
923    1973    Furnas Centrais Eletricas -
Itumbiara                         Power        125.0       92.9
924    1973    Brazil                               Agro-Indus.   54.0       35.7
1008   1974    Cia Hidro Eletricas do Sao
Francisco - Paulo Afonso IV       Power         81.0       81.0
/1   In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1976)
Loan                                                           Amount Less   Undis-
No.    Year           Borrower                      Purpose   Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
1009    1974     Banco Nacional de Habitacao         Water Supply    36.0       33.7
1067    1974     Brazil                              Education       23.5       23.3
1074    1975     Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways       175.0      170.8
1075    1975     Brazil                              Roads          110.0       96.0
1151    1975     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional      Industry        95.0       95.0
1152    1975     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista      Industry        60.0       60.0
1153    1975     Brazil                              Agriculture     23.0       22.9
1171    1975     FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista            Railways        75.0       75.0
1195    1976     Brazil                              Rural Develop. 12.0        12.0
1206    1976     Brazil                              Develop. Bank   85.0       85.0
1207    1976     Brazil                              Feeder Rds.     55.0       55.0
1249 /2 1976     Brazil                              Agriculture     40.0       40.0
1256    1976     Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer      50.0       48.0
1257    1976     Companhia Paraense de
Energia Eletrica - COPEL          Power           52.0       52.0
1300 /2 1976     Eletrobras                          Power           50.0       50.0
1309 /2 1976     Banco Nacional de Habitacao         Water Supply    40.0       40.0
1317 /2 1976     Brazil                              Agro. Indus.    83.0       83.0
Total                                            2,877.6 /1 1,383.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               312.3
Total now outstanding                            2,565.3
Amount Sold                         45.2
of which has been repaid          11.5             33.7
Total now held by Bank                           2,531.6
Total undisbursed                                            1,383.3
/1   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.    A US$19.0 million loan for a
Nutrition project was signed on October 1, 1976.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX 11
PaRe 3
B. STATEMNT OF IFC INVRSTMaNTS (AS OF SEPTEMBER 30. 1976)
Year                            Obligor                           Type of Business                      Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957           Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade             Electrical Equipment                  2.00      -       2.00
1958           Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                   Pulp and Paper                         1.20     -       1.20
1958           D.L.R. Plasticos:do Brasil, S.A.                   Automotive Parts                       0.45     -       0.45
1958           Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria a Comercio                              Motor Vehicles                        2.45      -       2.45
1959          Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.         Cement                                1.20      -       1.20
1959           Champion Celulose, S.A.                            Pulp                                  4.00              4.00
1966/1968/
1972           Acos Villares, S.A.                                Steel                                  8.00    1.93     9.93
1966/1969      Papal a Calulose Catarinenjs, S.A.                 Pulp and Paper                        4.06     3.13     7.19
1967/1972     Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria a Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                  Fertilizera                           8.22     3.03    11.25
1969           Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                           Petrochemicals                         5.50    2.88     8.38.
1970          Poliolefinas, S.A. Industrla a Comercio             Petrochemicals                         5.50    2.88     8.38
1971          Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                  Petrochemicals                        4.60     1.44     6.04
1971          Industria de Celulose Borregaard,S;.A.              Pulp                                  4.90      -       4.90
1972/1975      Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas             Cement                                29.14    3.20    32.34
1973/1974      Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA       Steel                                67.00     6.50    73.50
1973           Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP           Capital Market Development             5.00     -       5.00
1973           Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Racursos
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                         Nickel Mining and Refining           26.00     4.40    30.40
1974           Industries Villares, S.A.                          Elevators and Indistrial
Equipment                           6.00       -      6.00
1974           Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                   Textiles                              31.00      -     31.00
1975           Capuava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.                  Carbon Black                          6.18     1.08     7.26
1975           Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                             Petroqhemicals                       10.00       -     10.00
1976           Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.      Textiles                              6.45     1.00     7.45
1976          Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinanse do Nordeste       Textiles                              6.00       -      6.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                                 244.85    31.47   276.32
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                  174.06     7.89   181.95
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                        70.79    23.58   94.37
Total Undisbursed                                                                        23.35     1.33   24.68



ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECT IN EXECUTION I/
(As of September 30, 1976)
There are now 33 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:    US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Effective Dates:
July 8, 1965 and June 1, 1967; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project is completed and the loan is almost fully disbursed.
Equipment costs were substantially below estimates. The original
Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:    US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
the project has increased by US$42 million, or 15% over the
original estimate, because of increased excavation and concrete
work, resulting from poor rock foundation, and increased equipment
prices.  This has not significantly affected the economic justi-
fication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:    US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977.
The construction of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is pro-
gressing satisfactorily and the first two of the planned four
generating units are now in commercial operation. A cost overrun
of about US$127 million, due to increased equipment and construction
costs, is foreseen, but this does not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The cost overrun is being
financed by loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The
construction of the transmission system, delayed to allow required
modifications, is proceeding satisfactorily. The project is
expected to be completed by end-1976.
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date:  October 28, 1971; Closing Date:    December 31, 1977.  Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project implementation
is behind the original schedule due to initial delays in establish-
ing and staffing the project unit and because of subsequent changes
in project content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:   US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the
Borrower. The Government has approved legislation which converted
DNPVN from a government agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS.
PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of management consultants, has been
improving port operations in Santos. The National Port Development
Study financed under the project is now completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:    US$22 million loan of June 21,1971;
Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of Sao Paulo
not furnishing the required counterpart funds, which are now in-
cluded in the state budget. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the state into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company, SABESP,
and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was concluded
on December 18, 1974. Because of the reorganization of the sector
and of management problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date,
originally June 30, 1975 has been postponed to June 30, 1977.
Progress of the project has improved with new management of the com-
pany which took office in March 1975.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:    US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
A review of the original design resulted in its modification to ex-
clude the discharge of raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
As a result of the modifications in the project, the loan amount was
reduced to US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the State into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was
concluded December 18, 1974. The Description of the Project has
been slightly modified again because of changes in the Investment
Plan. Because of the reorganization of the sector and of management
problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June
30, 1975, has been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the
project has improved with new management which took office in March
1975.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. The latest cost estimate is US$736 million, an
increase of about 72% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion costs. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 90%
complete and is about one year behind the appraisal schedule.
The Closing Date, originally July 1, 1976, has been postponed to
December 31, 1976.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date: July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$975 million, an
increase of about 70% from the appraisal estimate due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.
This cost increase will not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The project is 90% complete and is
about twelve months behind the original schedule. Implementation
of Stage III, which is not being financed by the Bank, is well under-
way. The original Closing Date was June 1, 1976.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:    US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
have improved during the past year, but are still lagging behind
the appraisal forecast. The Closing Date originally June 30,
1976, has been postponed to June 30, 1977.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:    US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$758
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 75% complete and is about nine months behind
the original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:    US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:    US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. COLONE has prepared revised farm development plans whose
credit component, to be financed by public financial institutions,
will be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Administra-
tive delays in the release of public funds for farm credit and
COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting
project staff delayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed in 1978
as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:    US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Effective Date: March 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. Construction is more than 75% completed but
behind schedule. However, disbursement is expected to be com-
pleted by the Closing Date. The estimated total contract cost
is 11% above the appraisal estimate.
857       Grain Storage Project:   US$30 million loan of September 27, 1972;
Effective Date: January 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
After some initial difficulties with the appraisal of subprojects,
the project had been progressing satisfactorily. However, in April
1975 the Government adopted a national grain storage financing
program involving subsidized interest rates. Therefore, on
October 28, 1975, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel the
uncommitted balance (about 20%) of the loan. Disbursement of the
loan is proceeding as scheduled.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:    US$26 million loan of December 19,
1972; Effective Date: May 24, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project has progressed satisfactorily and the loan has been
fully committed., However, the Government recently informed the Bank
of its intention to refinance sub-loans made under the project at
highly negative real interest rates granted by a Government-
supported source of funds. As a result, the Bank and the Government
have reached agreement that the undisbursed portion of the loan
(US$5.5 million) will be cancelled and the outstanding balance of
the loan as well as of Loan 516-BR for the first phase of the
livestock program will be repaid over a 1-3/4 year period.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
887       Power Distribution Project:    US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977. Prin-
cipally due to difficulties encountered in preparing bidding docu-
ments and delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the
project is about two years behind schedule. The Closing Date,
originally June 30, 1976, has been postponed to June 30, 1977, to
allow adequate time to complete delivery and installation of equip-
ment and materials to be financed by the loan.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:    US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Contracts for penstocks, turbines, and concrete and earth
works have been awarded. Commissioning of the first generating
unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind original
schedule due to delay in awarding of the civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:    US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. The project is proceeding normally. The Central Bank
expects to complete commitment of project funds by December 1976.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:    US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently reviewed the progress
of the preparation and implementation of plans for resettlement of
the 9,700 families to be displaced by the Sobradinho reservoir.
Execution of these plans is underway, and construction of new towns
to house the urban portion of the population has begun. The rural
population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement in a
promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region in the
western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to remain near
their present houses will be resettled in new villages on the edge
of the future reservoir. The construction of the principal elements
of the project, the underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is
proceeding on schedule. However, due to initial delays in procure-
ment, the Bank-financed portion is somewhat behind of schedule.
Procurement is now proceeding satisfactorily and disbursements
should commence in the near future.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:    US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1977. The State Water Supply Company changed its name from Companhia
Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (COMAG) to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas
Gerais (COPASA-MG). Due to subproject preparation problems that
are now resolved, disbursements have been substantially behind
schedule. However, the loan is now fully committed to 43 sub-
projects selected by the company, out of which 20 are already under
construction. The project will probably be completed by June 1978
and a postponement of the Closing Date will be required.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1067      Second Education Project:   US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well.    The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and are expected to yield useful information for
future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:   US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. The financial situation
of the Borrower deteriorated in 1975, in spite of higher revenues,
because of increased costs of materials and higher social charges.
Procurement is progressing reasonably well, although slower than
expected.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:. US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding according to schedule. Implementation of the
road maintenance component of the project is slightly delayed due
to protracted negotiations for the hiring of consultants.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:    US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. As a result of these difficulties CSN has contracted
special consultancy services to review the project scope with a view
to trimming capital costs and to helping improve project management.
The project is about nine months behind the original schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:    US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. Procurement for equipment is
underway.



ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:    US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. Construction of dikes and the
irrigation and drainage system for the Betume varzea has begun.
Bidding for most of the other civil works and equipment procure-
ment is underway. Preliminary estimates, prior to bid evalua-
tion, are that project costs might increase considerably over
the appraisal estimate due to partial design changes and more
rapid than expected increases in equipment and construction
prices and in costs of land expropriation. The emergency works
remain the least cost way to offset the effects on the project
area population of the hydroelectric developments upstream.
Nevertheless, further possible modifications in the design of
emergency and irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and
its consultants with a view to limiting cost increases.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):    US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Terms of reference
have been approved for the Transport Master Plan for Sao Paulo, and
for the technical assistance program intended to improve FEPASA's
operations, marketing and data processing systems. Procurement is
progressing reasonably well. The financial situation of FEPASA
deteriorated in 1975 due to lower than forecasted traffic, cost
inflation and real terms salary increases.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:    US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1206      Development Banking Project:   US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The project is proceeding accordingly to schedule.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:    US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.   The project is proceeding according to
schedule.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:    US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is proceeding according to
schedule. Civil engineering for 21 experiment stations is well
advanced.



ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:   US$52 million loan of March 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is processing according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:    US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. The project is proceeding according to schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
ELECTROSUL POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                        Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil
S. A. - ELETROSUL
Beneficiary:                     Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S. A. -
ELETROBRAS for US$4.3 million.
Guarantor:                       Federative Republic of Brazil.
Amount:                          US$82.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                           Payable in 17 years, including 3-1/2 years
of grace; interest at 8.7% per annum.
Relending Terms:                  Same terms as those for the Bank loan.
Project Description:             The project consists of the construction of
transmission lines and facilities to inter-
connect the electrical power systems of the
South and Southeastern Regions of Brazil and
to provide the first phase of a 500 kV trans-
mission system in the South. It includes the
installation of about 700 single circuit km of
500 kV lines, construction of 1,500 MVA of
substation capacity, expansion of a 230 kV
substation, telecommunication equipment and a
computerized system operating center. The
project also includes a high level training
program in Brazil and abroad benefitting the
sector as a whole.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost
(In US$ million equivalent):
A. Transmission Project
Foreign           Local          Total
500 kV Lines                  22.5             10.8           33.3
500 kV Substations            15.4              7.9           23.3
230 kV Substations             2.8              0.2            3.0
Communications                 6.0              1.0            7.0
Control System                 4.4              0.3            4.7
Construction                   1.4             28.2           29.6
Total direct costs          52.5             48.4          100.9
Engineering                    2.6              4.7            7.3
Administration                   -             19.0            19.0
55.1             72.1          127.2
Physical contingencies         2.0              3.7            5.7
Subtotal - Dec. 75 prices   57.1             75.8          132.9
Price contingencies           22.6             41.6           64.2
Total cost                  79.7            117.4          197.1
B.   Training Program               4.3             11.1            15.4
Total (A) and (B)           84.0            128.5          212.5
Financing.Plan
(In US$ million equivalent):     IBRD Loan                82.0
Other loans and
contributions         130.5
Total Project cost    212.5
Estimated Disbursements:
(In US$ thousand equivalent)     Fiscal Year      Annually     Cumulative
77              10.5          10.5
78              16.5          27.0
79              22.0          49.0
80              22.0          71.0
81               9.0          80.0
82               2.0          82.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement arrangement:         Equipment and materials for the project
would be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Bank's
Guidelines; manufacturers whose goods contain
components manufactured in Brazil equal to
at least 50% of the value of the bid would
be given a margin of preference of 15% or
the applicable import duties, whichever is
lower.
Technical Assistance:            The project would provide a total of about
2192 man-months of consulting services for
procurement and engineering, and 92 man-
months for training.
Economic Rate of Return:         27.0%.
Appraisal Report:                Report No. 1265a-BR of November 5, 1976.
Consultants:                     Themag and Montreal Engenharia for procurement
and engineering and Lynch-Wilde for training.



-22'   5b         54- 'r                              50'                  48-             " "  .  AUGUST I T19
'                      -k      -AtG         LODRN                                        H 
1'
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANA                       L C AM  A
ANA                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA PAULO
-24'                                     CAP4M'AO6
P A   R A   G  U A   Y                               ,NrERLIGCASCAVEL  N,TRLIGADORA I
P~~~~~~~~~~~)<5 A  R A  Gi U                               POoNTA GR05A      '.' 
A~~~~~~~~~~TB
'AP L-' 5 -'< '+'  + -  \  /                          R l,, ,   , _  ARRACAO  U
OSOR 0       "A_G  9 \\_    OLA>ES          X   RIANOPOLIS  5,.
-26\\ '                                     81|1    <  '  - -      JORGE LACERDA
B FARROUPItHARR A C A 6R
,)                                ~~~~~~~~~~C. INDUSTRIA   /                  BRAZIL
/  }  S                            xJ1 PORTO ALEGRE /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORANPOi
30   ,                                            C. INDLSEPA VBCRINH      CENTRAIS ELECTRICASDO SULDO BRASIL
(ELETROSUL)
T '2b* Z?o abrdetok                               (\3 t  J /          ELETROSUL TRANSMISSION PROJECT
I   .n t,Aenn,,  A n 9>' 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _s _, _ _ _ _   = -/                                       TRA N SM ISSIO N   LIN ES  PLA N TS  SU BSTA TIO N S
51                  < \                          /JUr0   )/       Z        PROJECT  500i 
FUTURE r-50
SOUTH                    'N                                                                    A           0
AMERICA                                                                                     HOORO                   322-
> -> BRAZIL ;// -32        >              )(/                          EXISTING 230kL     AU THEAL     * * 6
AREA OFM                                                                Depo,tent Bou,,d/ies
Inter,,otwalnI  Boundaries  -
GUA A              Y              0 050 o s 0o 5s0  200 250
50     100     s00
a, V  Orevo  lp  /   MILE5
54-  ,  /    ~~~~~52-          50'                   48-                 46'



