CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1343 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(ELETROSUL Transmission Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DO SUL DO BRASIL S.A.
- ELETROSUL
Dated February 23, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 23, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DO SUL DO BRASIL S.A. - ELETROSUL
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part B of the Project will be carried out by Centrais
El6tricas Brasileiras S.A. -- ELETROBRAS (hereinafter called
ELETROBRAS) and for that purpose the Borrower will make available
to ELETROBRAS part of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a subsidiary loan agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Borrower, ELETROBRAS and the
Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ELETROBRAS" means Centrais El6tricas Brasileiras S.A.
-- ELETROBRXS, a sociedade de economia mista of the Guarantor, or
any successor thereto;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower, ELETROBRAS and the Bank, pur-
suant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Global Guarantee Fund" means the Reserva Global de
Garantia of the Guarantor, established by Decreto-Lei No. 1383 of


﻿-3-
December 26, 1974 of the Guarantor, and regulated by Portaria No.
365, of March 25, 1975, of the Guarantor's Minister of Mines and
Energy, to supplement, when necessary, the revenues obtained by
the electric power companies in Brazil from the sale of electricity,
in order to ensure the economic and financial equilibrium of such
companies;
(d) "ELETROBRAS Undertaking" means ELETROBRAS' assurance,
contained in its letter to the Bank dated September 27, 1976, that
ELETROBRAS will build or cause to be built a 750 kV transmission
system between the switching substation at Interligadora I and
SZo Paulo;
(e) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement (Salto
Osorio Hydroelectric Project) dated April 5, 1971, between the Bank
and the Borrower for Loan No. 728 BR;
(f) "Prior Guarantee Agreement" means the Guarantee Agreement
(Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project) dated April 5, 1971, between
the Guarantor and the Bank for Loan No. 728 BR; and
(g) "1976-1981 Investment Program" means the Borrower's program
for the expansion of its power generation and transmission system
during the years 1976 through 1981, as set forth in detail in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
01


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-
two million dollars ($82,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) iA respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods required for the Project shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿0                            -5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.7O%)per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. ELETROBRAS is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with respect to
any expenditures by ELETROBRIS under Part B of the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, financial and public utility practices.
(b) The Borrower shall relend an amount equivalent to four
million and three hundred thousand dollars ($4,300,000) out of the
proceeds of the Loan to ELETROBRAS under a subsidiary loan agree-
ment entered into between the Borrower, ELETROBRAS and the Bank
for the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall use its best efforts to obtain addi-
tional financing, by way of loans or otherwise, on reasonable
terms and to apply the proceeds of such financing as required for
purposes of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the engineering required for Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience


﻿-7-
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for
Part A of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery.thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan for Part A of the Project to be used exclusively for
.     Part A of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall promptly furnish to the
Bank, upon request, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for Part A
of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in Part
A of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in Part A of the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
01


﻿-8-
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, not later than
December 31, 1977 or such other later date as the Bank shall
agree, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in Part A of the Project and shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that such land and rights in respect of land, are available
for purposes related to Part A of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all reasonable measures to ensure that Part A of the Project is
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times carry on its
operations, manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
and plan the future expansion of its electric power system, all
in accordance with appropriate business, financial and public
utility practices and under the supervision of experienced and
competent management.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. In order to utilize a system for classification
and measurement of items constituting indirect costs of the Bor-
rower's construction projects, the Borrower shall, not later than


﻿- 10                                     S
three months after ELETROBRAS has developed such a system or such
other later date as the Bank shall agree, prepare a plan, including
a specific timetable, for the implementation of such system in its
operations.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.


﻿-12 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) obtain title to all goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances; and (ii)
not sell or otherwise dispose of, or permit the sale or disposal
of, any of the property or assets which shall be required for the
efficient carrying on of its business and undertaking, including
Part A of the Project, unless the Borrower shall first pay, or make
adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for payment of, all of
the Loan which shall then be outstanding and unpaid; provided,
however, that the Borrower may sell or otherwise dispose of, or
permit the sale or disposal of, any property which shall have be-
come obsolete, worn-out or unnecessary for use in its plant.


﻿-13-
Section 5.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not, until Part A of the Project shall have been
completed, undertake, or permit to be undertaken on its behalf,
any major expansion project, other than the 1976-1981 Investment
Program, unless it has first furnished to the Bank evidence satis-
factory to the Bank that (i) such expansion project is economically
justified; (ii) the Borrower will have adequate financial resources
for the carrying out of such expansion project; and (iii) such
expansion project, in the case of a power generation or transmission
project, is in accordance with plans for power generation and trans-
mission approved by ELETROBRAS for the South and Southeast regions
of Brazil.
For the purposes of this Section, a "major expansion project"
shall be deemed to be a project or acquisition of new assets the
aggregate cost of which shall be in excess of the equivalent of
two per cent (2%) of gross fixed assets in operation plus work-in-
progress of the Borrower.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall take all such action (including, in
such cases where automatic rate adjustments are not permitted, action
with respect to the filing, within a period of not more than five
months after the end of every calendar year, of appropriate appli-
cations in respect of rates) as shall be necessary or advisable to:
(i) cause the Borrower's rates for the sale of electricity to be
set and maintained at such levels as will produce revenues, as
provided by the legislation of the Guarantor in effect on the date


﻿of this Agreement, sufficient to ensure the continued operation of
the Borrower's business in accordance with appropeiate financial
and public utility practices, using straight-line depreciation
which shall be not less than that based on the useful lives of
depreciable assets in operation; and (ii) enable the agency or
agencies of the Guarantor responsible for the setting and adjust-
ment of such rates to act promptly in respect thereof;
(b) the Borrower shall, as provided by the legislation of
the Guarantor, revalue its assets at least once every calendar year
and apply for the corresponding rate adjustments; and
(c) the Borrower shall take all necessary steps to maintain
its eligibility, whenever it shall be necessary or advisable for
the Borrower, to receive transfers of funds from the Global Guar-
antee Fund to supplement its revenues in order to achieve the ob-
jective set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 5.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt (i) if after the incurrence
of such debt, the debt of the Borrower shall exceed 66-2/3% of the
value of its total fixed assets; and (ii) with an original term of
less than eight years if at the time of such incurrence the total
outstanding principal of such debt (including the debt proposed to
be incurred but excluding any debt to be repaid out of the proceeds
thereof) shall exceed 5% of the Borrower's total fixed assets.
For the purposes of this Section:
(1) the term "debt" means any outstanding debt
maturing by its terms after one year from
the date on which it is incurred;


﻿- 15 -
(2) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under
a loan agreement (including the Loan Agreement)
on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant
to such loan agreement, and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(3) the term "total fixed assets" means gross fixed
assets in operation less the reserve for depreciation
and amortization, plus the cost of construction work-
in-progress, all such items to be revalued on the
basis of the latest applicable official revaluation
coefficients; and
(4) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms
of currency of the Guarantor debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the beginning
of each calendar year, a statement of the following:
(i) the Borrower's projected net revenues for such cal-
endar year;


﻿-16-
(ii) the Borrower's projected debt service requirements
for such calendar year; and
(iii) the arithmetical ratio of (i) to (ii).
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(1) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of
the Borrower's electricity rates in effect at
the time of the incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the fiscal year
or twelve-month period to which such revenues
relate, less all expenses of operation and
maintenance in connection with the generation,
transmission and distribution of electricity,
administration, and taxes, if any, but before
deduction of provision for depreciation and
amortization of assets, reversion, interest
and other charges on debt; and
(2) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt (excluding interest
financed by loans).
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank annually, as soon
as practicable after the end of each calendar year, a statement of
the following:


﻿-17-
(i) the Borrower's total fixed assets as defined in
paragraph (a) of this Section, as of the end
of such calendar year;
(ii) the outstanding debt of the Borrower as defined
in paragraph (a) of this Section, as of the end
of such calendar year;
(iii) the arithmetical ratio of (ii) to (i);
(iv) the Borrower's estimated fixed capital expendi-
tures less estimated retirements, for the calendar
year then in progress;
(v) the estimated change in debt of the Borrower as
defined in paragraph (a) of this Section, net
of amortization of debt, for the calendar year
then in progress; and
(vi) the arithmetical ratio of the sum of (ii) and (v)
to the sum of (i) and (iv).
(d) All items in the statements referred to in paragraph (b)
and (c) of this Section shall be expressed in currency of the
Guarantor. In calculating the amount of debt in currency of the
Guarantor subject to revaluation, account will be taken of any
law or contract relating thereto.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall, if necessary in order to
comply with the provisions of Section 5.07 of this Agreement, take
01


﻿-18-
all appropriate action to permit ELETROBRAS, in its capacity as
holder of the majority of the Borrower's shares, to convert into
an equity contribution to the Borrower's capital such amount of
outstanding long-term debt of the Borrower held by ELETROBRAS
as shall be required for the purpose of compliance therewith.
0


﻿-19-
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a substantial change in the Borrower's Estatutos shall
have been made without the agreement of the Bank;
(b) a change in the legislation of the Guarantor shall have
occurred, which shall materially and adversely affect the carrying
on of the Borrower's business or the setting or adjustment of the
Borrower's rates for the sale of electricity at such levels as shall
be necessary to provide the Borrower with revenues sufficient to
ensure the continued operation of its business in accordance with
appropriate financial and public utility practices; provided, how-
ever, that to the extent that such revenues shall not be sufficient
for the purpose, transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee Fund
may be made by the Guarantor to the Borrower in order to supplement
such revenues.
For the purpose of this paragraph, the term "change in the
legislation of the Guarantor" shall mean any change (including, but
without limitation, any amendment or repeal of, or failure to carry
out or enforce, any such legislation) in the entire body of legis-
lation of the Guarantor (including, but without limitation, all
constitutional provisions, statutes, laws, decree-laws, executive


﻿- 20 -
decrees and regulations and any other legal provisions of a similar
nature) directly or indirectly relating to the carrying on of the
Borrower's business and the determination and adjustment of the
Borrower's rates for the sale of electricity;
(c) ELETROBRAS shall have failed to comply with the ELETROBRAS
Undertaking; and
(d) the Borrower or ELETROBRAS shall have failed to perform
any of their respective covenants, agreements or obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, provided, however, that the suspen-
sion, under this paragraph (d), of the Borrower's right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be limited to amounts
included for purposes of Part B of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and ELETROBRAS; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-21-
ARTICLE VII
Amendment to Prior Loan Agreement
Section 7.01. The Prior Loan Agreement is hereby amended as
follows:
(a) by introducing a paragraph (c) in Section 5.05 thereof
containing the same provisions as paragraph (c) of Section 5.06
of this Agreement; and
(b) by substituting the pro' isions of Section 5.07 and 6.01
(b) of this Agreement for those of Sections 5.06 and 8.02 (a),
respectively, of the Prior Loan Agreement.


﻿- 22-
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and ELETROBRAS, respectively, has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by all necessary corporate action; and
(b) the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and ELETROBRAS, respectively,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ELETROBRAS in accor-
dance with its terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil;


﻿-23-
(c) that the ELETROBRAS Undertaking is a valid and binding
obligation of ELETROBRAS in accordance with its terms; and
(d) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies, or otherwise to be performed or given in order to
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Bor-
rover to perform all of the obligations of the Borrower in this
Agreement contained (including the obligations thereof relating
to procurement of goods for the project) together with all neces-
sary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly
and validly performed or given and that no other such acts, con-
sents or approvals are required in order to authorize the carrying
out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform all of
the obligations of the Borrower in this Agreement contained.
Section 8.03. The date June 24, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-24-
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
Centrais El'tricas do Sul
do Brasil S.A. - ELETROSUL
Rua Trajano 41
88000 Florian6polis, S.C. - Brazil
Cable address:                Telex:
ELETROSUL                     0482-164
Florian6polis


﻿*                          -25-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CENTRAIS ELETRICAS DO SUL
DO BRASIL S.A. - ELETROSUL
By /s/ Fernando Marcondes de Mattos
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Fernando Marcondes de Mattos
Authorized Representative


﻿-26-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              54,500,000         100% of foreign
materials                                    expenditures or
100% of the ex-
factory price of
domestically
manufactured
goods
(2) Consultants'                1,000,000         100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
(3) Training                    4,300,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                22,200,000
TOTAL      82,000,000


﻿*                          - 2ar -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other


﻿-28-
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-29 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program for the expan-
sion of its power generation and transmission systems during the
years 1976 through 1981; also included is a training program. The
Project consists of:
Part A:   Expansion of Borrower's transmission system:
1.   Transmission lines
(a) Installation of about 345 single-circuit-km of
two 500 kV lines from the hydroelectric stations at
Salto Santiago and Foz do Areia converging at the
switching substation at Interligadora I.
(b) Installation of about 360 single-circuit-km of
500 kV lines from the hydroelectric station at Salto
Santiago through the hydroelectric station at Foz
do Areia to the substation in Curitiba.
2.   Substations
Construction of four 500 kV substations at Salto
Santiago, Foz do Areia, Curitiba and Interligadora I,
respectively, with about 1,500 MVA installed capacity,
and expansion of the 230 kV substation at Salto Santiago.


﻿-30-
3.   Telecommunications
(a) Installation of a microwave system with 600 channels.
(b) Installation of a carrier system for teleprotection
and voice.
(c) Installation of VHF to the substation at Interligadora I.
4.   System Operating Center
Installation of an analogical and a digital computer
system for data acquisition, supervision and control.
Part B:   ELETROBRAS training program:
1.   Academic and practical training abroad for short periods
for selected sector staff at an advanced level in the
areas of: system planning and operations; system con-
trol; transmission and distribution; standardization
and quality control; financial administration; economics
of public utility operation; environmental studies and
work-safety and industrial medicine.
2.   Training courses abroad for professors from selected
Brazilian universities in the areas mentioned in para-
graph 1 above to enable them to conduct future training
courses for the sector and to offer new courses at their
respective universities in Brazil.


﻿-31-
3.   Establishment of a National Coordination and Supervision
Control Center for the interconnected system and provision
of on-the-job training of Brazilian engineers who will
operate this Center.
* Pe                         e
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿-32-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1980
through June 1, 1993                         3,035,000
On December 1, 1993                               3,090,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-33-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.55%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         3.05%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5.65%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                         7.70%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                         8.70%


﻿-34-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one well-
known technical magazine of wide international circulation in suffi-
cient time before bids are to be opened to enable prospective bidders
to request bidding documents and prepare bids.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes (including merchant fleet renewal
and port improvement taxes) on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.


﻿*                          -35-
2.   Goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that such
goods contain components manufactured in Brazil
equal to at least 50% of the value of the complete
goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement taxes)
on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to
be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated bid
of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared
with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from
group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿-36-
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding: (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group B bid, for the purpose of this further com-
parison only, an amount equal to (A) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to
pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid,
or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price; and (ii) to the ex-
factory bid price of the domestically supplied goods offered in
each group B bid an amount equal to (A) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which would be levied on such goods if they
originated from the same foreign country as the goods included in
a group B bid which enjoy the lowest customs duties and other im-
port taxes, or (B) 15% of the ex-factory price of such goods if
said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group B which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evalu-
ated bid shall be selected.
F.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:


﻿-37 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, together with the recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be in-
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 38-
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿-39 -
SCHEDULE 5
1976-1981 Investment Program
1.   (a) Expansion of the Salto Os6rio hydroelectric station on
the Iguagu River from 700 MW to 1050 MW (2 additional
175 MW units).
(b) Construction of the Salto Santiago hydroelectric sta-
tion on the Iguaqu River (4 x 333 MW capacity); and
(c) Expansion of the Jorge Lacerda thermal plant providing
additional 2 x 125 MW coal-fired capacity.
2.   (a) Installation of about 345 single-circuit-km of two
500 kV lines from the hydroelectric stations at Salto
Santiago and Foz do Areia converging at the switching
substation at Interligadora I, linking these lines with
a 750 kV line to be constructed by FURNAS-Centrais
Elotricas S.A.;
(b) Installation of about 360 single-circuit-km of 500 kV
lines from the hydroelectric station at Salto Santiago
through the hydroelectric station at Foz do Areia to
the substation in Curitiba;
(c) Construction of four 500 kV substations at Salto Santiago,
Foz do Areia, Curitiba and Interligadora I, respectively,
and expansion of the 230 kV substation at Salto Santiago;


﻿- 4~o -
(d) Completion of about 1016 single-circuit-km of 230 kV
lines and associated substations from Salto Osorio to
Xanxer@, Campo Mourao, Foz do Areia and Curitiba;
(e) Construction of about 560 single-circuit-km of 230 kV
lines and associated substations in the state of Santa
Catarina; and
(f) Completion of 230 kV transmission system works related
to the Passo Fundo hydroelectric station.
3.   Development of load dispatch and telecommunieations facili-
ties consisting of a digital system for data acquisition,
supervision and control, and installation of a microwave
system with about 600 channels, a carrier system for tele-
protection and voice, and VHF from Salto Santiago-Foz do
Areia to the substation at Interligadora I.
4.   Conversion of frequency from 50 Hz to 60 Hz of the
Charqueadas power plant and other minor works in the 230
kV network, including the improvement of the interconnection
between the Borrower and Centrais Eletricas de Sao Paulo S.A.
- CESP.


