Docijment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6699-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
May 26, 1987
Urban and Water Supply Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offici duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1, 1987)
Currency unit - Won (W)
Won 1.0         US$0.00116
US$1.00         W 860
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)       - 0.52 miles
1 square meter (sq m) - 10.8 square feet
1 pyong (py)             3.3 square meters
1 hectare (ha)           10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres
or 3,024 pyong
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNE            Citizens National Bank
EPB       -    Economic Planning Board
GPM       =    Graduated Payment Mortgage
HB             Housing Bureau of MOC
HFS       =    Housing  Finance System
HPRC      -    Housing Policy Review Committee
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
KHB            Korea Housing Bank
KLDC      -    Korea Land Development Corporation
KNHC      -    Korea National Housing Corporation
KRIHS     -    Korea Research Institute for Human
Settlements
LCB       G    Local Compe itive Bidding
MOC       -    Ministry of Construction
NHF       -    National Housing Fund
OSROK     -    Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
p.a.      -    per annum
PAS       -    Program of Actions and Studies
PS        =    Policy Statement



FOR 0MCIL US ONLY
KOREA
MOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......            ..................iii
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT   .................. ..............
A.  Housing  Conditions .              ..........................1
B. Policies, Institutions and Programs               .........          2
C. Sectoral Issues .............................                        4
D. The Role of Finance in Housing .....              .........          4
E. Future Policy Directions .....................                       5
F. Experience with Past Lending .....              ...........          6
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement  .....             .........          7
II. THE PROJECT ...........           ..........................              7
A. Origin and Formulation ......             ................           7
B. Objectives and Description .....              .............          7
C. Project Cost ................................                       1o
D. Financing Plan ..............................                       11
E. Implementation ..............................                       11
F. Disbursement ................................                       12
G. Procurement ..........  ......................                      13
H. Accounts and Audits .........................                       14
III. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .............          .. ...........             14
A. Justification and Benefits  .....             .............         14
B. Risks ............         ...........................              15
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                ..........         15
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission
consisting of Messrs. L. M. Hannah (Senior Economist) and H. Boldrick
(Senior Financial Analyst), who visited Korea in February-March 1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii -
ANNEXES
1.  Policy Statement and Program of Act'4ns and Studies
2.  NHF Programs and Financial Statements
3.  KHB Programs and Financial Statements
4.   Criteria for Subproject Selection
5.  Disbursement Schedule
6.  Economic Analysis
7.  Draft Terms of Reference for Study of Resource Mobilization
and Lendirg for Housing
8.  Draft Terms of Reference for Study of Costs and Efficiency
of the Public Sector Housing Programs
9.  Documents Available in the Project File
Nap IBRD 20170



- iii -
KOREA
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:      Republic of Korea
Amount:        US$150 million equivalent
Terms:         Repayable in 15 years including 3 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Onlending
Terms:   10% for home purchase and 5% for the construction of
rental accommodation destined for low-income
households, both for 20 years.
Project
Description: The project supports a two-year (mid-1987 through mid-
1989) time-slice of the lending program of the
Government's National Housing Fund (NHU) for low-income
housing and includes studies and training. NHF plans
to lend about US$1.4 billion equivalent during the
project period, primarily for smaller units reserved
for households below the average urban income level.
The basis of the sector loan is a Policy 3tatement and
Program of Actions and Studies, which has been adopted
by the Government, on the future of the housing finance
system. The Policy Statement expresses the Government's
intention to expand the system on the basis of market
principles, to target the social housing programs to
lower-income families, and to stimulate an increase in
the construction of low-income housing for purchase and
for rental. The main benefits of the project would be
increased effectiveness of public expenditures in the
sector and reduced costs of financial intermediation
for home buyers.
Risks:    The main risks of the project involve noncompliance or
delayed compliance with agreed housing strategies.
However, these risks are not great, because the sector
dialogue has resulted in a close coincidence of views
between the Bank and the Government on desirable policy
directions and institutional reforms. The Government is
already taking action on many agreed measures.



- iv-
Local   Foreign   Total
Estimated Cost:                          -----(US$ Million)-   ----
NHF Housing Program
Rental tTnits                     443.0    155.7    598.7
Sale Units                        624.1    219.2    843.3
Training, Studies                        0.3       0.2      0.5
Total Project Cost                   1,067.4    375.1  1,442.5
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign    Total
--------(US$ Million)--
Government                           1,067.4       225.1  1,292.5
World Bank                               -         150.0    150.0
Total                                1,067.4      375.1   1,442.5
- ----------- Bank FY-
Estimated Disbursements:           1988     1989    1990    1991
----------(US$ Million)-----------
Annual                   25        44      56        25
Cumulative               25        69     125       150
Economic Rate of Return: not applicable
M/ Includes taxes estimated at US$40.4 million equivalent.



KOREA
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
I. SECn'ORAL CONTEXT
A. Housing Conditions
1.01      Korea has attained a high level of urbanization in a very
short period of time. In 1960, only 38% of Korerns lived in cities
compared to more than 79% according to the 1985 census. Although the
overall population is growing at only 1.5% per ar.num, the young age
structure of Korea and the tesulting high rate of household formation
will continue to put pressure on housing.   An estimated 300,000 new
urban households are formed each year and this trend is expected to
continue inito the 1990s.
1.02     To meet the demand from the new households, and to eliminate
the existing backlog over time, 400,000 new housing units are expected
to be needed annually for the next several years. In contrast, actual
construction averaged only 188,000 units p.a. in the 1970s and 233,000
units p.a. in the past five years. The net addition to the housing
stock has been even smaller (150,000 units p.a. in the past five
years) due to substantial demolition and amalgamation of older units.
1.03      The wide gap between housing demand and supply has caused
serious strains on the housing market, which has translated into
worsening housing conditions in terms of overcrowding, particularly in
the larger cities.   In contrast to government objectives, the number
of housing units per 100 households declined from 85 in 1966 to 68 in
1983.   Although average space standards have improved significantly
(each household occupied an average of 47 sq m in 1980, up from 34 sq
m in 1970), many households now share a housing unit with several
other families.   In 1980, only 30% of urban households occupied a
single dwelling, while 30% shared with one other family, 18% with two
families and 22% with three or more families. Between 1970 and 1980,
the average number of urban households per housing unit almost doubled
from 1.2 to 2.2.
1.04      Fi-;:y-five percent of urban Korean households are renters,
but of these renters only 29% are the sole occupants of their
dwellings. The majority rent rooms in units also occupied by their
landlord. Looked at another way, one half of owners rent out part of
their dwelling to other households. Tenants are poorer than owners,
with average renter inzomes being from 60% to 70% of average owner
incomes. Rent burdens are high, and one fourth of renters in Seoul pay
more than a third of their income for rent. This is partly related to
the modest supply of rental units. At present, the development of a
commercial rental industry is constrained by the absence of long-term
finance and a regulatory structure that makes being a landlord risky
and probably unprofitable.



- 2 -
B. Policies, Institutions and Programs
1.05    Prior to the early 1960s, the main concern in the sector was
to replace and rebuild the housing destroyed during the Korean War.
During the first two five-year plans (1962-71), most of the country's
effort and resources were devoted to stimulating its export
industries, and housing received little attention from the Governmenit.
The policy of minimal ditect public attention to housing persisted
until the early 1970s when the Government formulated an ambitious Ten-
Year Housing Construction Plan and established the main sector
agencies which produced 30% of the new units built during the Third
Plan (1972-76). A policy of expanding supply was successful during the
Fourth Plan, and total housing output soared by 50% over the previous
plan period. However, policymakers concluded that abrupt expansion of
the housing market was creating other problems by absorbing
considerable resources in the short run (at a time when financial
assets were unattractive) and by feeding inflation by presenting an
opportunity for short-term capital gains. Measures were taken to cool
the demand for housing. These actions had a much greater impact on
private developers, thus enhancing the role of public institutions in
supplying housing in a way not fully intended. Under the Sixth Five-
Year Economic and Social Development Plan (1987-91) a further
evolution of housing policies is occurring, drawing on the lessons of
the public-sector-led expansion policies of the past decade and the
new macroeconomic environment of high growth with stable prices. While
the Government has focused on increasing the supply of new units,
poorer households, who are mostly renters, have experienced increased
crowding and rising housing costs. For housing policies to be more
effective in addressing the broad range of issues in the sector,
policymakers have begun to make a distinction between economic
efficiency objectives in housing and the social welfare dimensions of
housing. The future programs of all public sector institutions will
reflect this dichotomy. The Ministry of Construction, through its
Housing Bureau (MOC/HB), is responsible for formulating housing policy
and supervising its implementation.
1.06      Korea Housing Bak.  The KHB was established in 1967 to
increase the amount of housing finance available and thus improve
access to home ownership. It is the most important housing finance
institution in the country providing (with the National Housing Fund
(NHF) whose lending programs are administered by KHB) about 90% of
housing loans made in 1982-85. Government is the principal owner of
KHB, with 94% of the paid-in capital of W50 billion. The balance is
spread among a number of commercial banks and insurance companies. The
primary source of funds for KHB is individual savings accounts, which
provide about 90% of funds raised annually. KHU  has shown steady
growth in recent years, with total assets increasing at an average
rate of 20% and tripling during the period 1981-86. During the same
period, the average interest expense was 9% and average interest
income 11.3% for an average spread of 2.3%, which was adaquate to
cover administrative costs, reserves and a modest dividend on
subscribed capital. The most notable characteristic of KHB is the
very small loan-to-value (LTV) ratio of its mortgage lending. On
average KHB loans have provided only 30% of the price of the housing



- 3 -
purchased by its borrowers. Aside from its low LTV, KHB's performance
in carrying out its mandate has been very good and it is a well-
managed and consistently profitable institution. Problem areas
involving undercapitalization (a common problem in the financial
sector in Korea) and low liquidity are being addressed by Government
by injections of capital during the Sixth Plan and by access to
borrowing from the Bank of Korea (see Annex 3 for further details).
1.07      National Housing Fund. In addition to KHB, mortgage loans
are available from the National Housiag Fund (NHF), the Government's
social housing window. NHF is managed by MOC/HB while its day-to-day
operation is administered by KHB. NF,: was established in 1981 under
the provfsions of the Housing Construction Acceleration Law of 1972
(as amended on April 7, 1981) when the National Housing Construction
Loan Account was separated from KHB to distinguish its social
objectives and criteria from KHB's more market-oriented lending
activities and to permit better policy guidance to NHF by the
Government. The goal of NHF is to house lower-income "homeless"
households (those not owning a housing unit, those renting in shared
accommodation and households displaced by disaster). Initially,
emphasis was placed on home ownership as the approach for all family
situations, but more recently rental housing has been recognized as a
more appropriate arraugement for the lowest-income households. NHF
lending programs involve financing extended to KNHC, local governments
and private developers for the construction of multi-family projects
which are marketed directly by those entities to qualified households.
The construction financing is subsequently converted to long-term NHF
mortgage loans. Since beginning operations as a separate program in
1981, NHF has grown rapidly and total assets (almost entirely housing
loans) have quadrupled. NHF has varied sources of funds including
housing bonds, individual savings deposits, penaion funds, lottery
profits and government capital contributions as well as borrowings
from KHB and the World Bank (Loan 2216-KO for US$100 million approved
December 16, 1982). Housing bonds were the single most important
source of funds during the period 1981-86, accounting for nearly 60%
of total funds raised. The average interest expense during the same
period was 7.1% and average interest income was 9%, generating an
average spread of 1.9%. Although NHF operations produced losses in
1982-84, in the last two years the spreads have been sufficient to
cover operating costs plus a substantial contribution to capital. NHF
is well-managed and financially sound. Its liquidity needs arising
from the mismatch of asset/liability maturities typical of housing
finance are assured by the buoyancy of its major sources of funding
(see Annex 2 for further details)'.
J 08     Other Institutions. Only two deposit banks, KHB and Citizens
National Bank (CNB), provide longer-term financing for housing. Other
deposit banks have little or no interest in making housing loans,
given the long maturities involved, because the interest rate on
mortgages is set at the same level as other loans which have much
shorter duration. Furthermore, there is no refinancing mechanism to
facilitate asset/liability management by the lending institutions.
The composition of the housing loan portfolio outstanding at the end
of 1984 was approximately as follows: NHF (47%), KHB (36%), National



- 4 -
Agricultural Credit Fund (a cooperative agricultural bank, 9%), CNB
(6%), and insurance companies (2%). CNB, the third largest lender for
urban housing, avoids the risks of mismatch between the maturities of
its assets and liabilities by making loans for only two to five
years. CNB also rations available funds by making small loans. Its
average housing loan in 1986 was W5.46 million (its authorized loan
ceiling is W10 million) when the cost of a median size new house was
W25 million. The two other principal public institutions in the
housing sector are the Korea National Housing Corporation (KNHC), the
Government's housing developer established in the late 1960s, and the
Korea Land Development Corporation (KLDC), founded in 1979 to address
the serious bottleneck in supplying serviced land for the rapid
urbanization taking place in Korea. Local governments gradually
entered the housing business by building small numbers of apartments.
C. Sectoral Issues
1.09     Il the context of the high levels of crowding and worsening
situation of renters and lower-income households outlined above
(paras. 1.01 to 1.04), the overriding characteristic of the Korean
housing market has been relatively unstable output and prices. The
Government has sought to address this problem through increasing the
supply of crucial inputs, nuch as serviced land. However,
imprcvemertts in areas deemed important to policymakers, such as an
increase in the ratio of dwellings to households, an expanded supply
of rental units and greater production of smaller sized units, still
requiLe further actions.  The overall shortage of formal finance for
housing and Government's difficulty in focusing its programs on target
groups are now seen as major constraints to better functioning of the
housing market. These constraints are indicative of the need for the
Government to develop better housing policy instruments than those
used in the past. The actions and basic policy directions established
under the proposed project are designed to lead to an expansion of
formal housing finance in line with modernization of the overall
financial system.
D. The Role of Finance in Housing
L.10     Several factors make the development of housing finance in
Korea more, important during the Sixth Plan period than it was in the
past. On the demand side, housing has been and continues to be a large
asset for most households in Korea. The ratio of housing value to
annual income is now about 5.5 and rising because of land and housing
scarcity, climatic conditions and the large imbalance between the
number of house:olds and units, especially in the main cities.  What
has changed is that the already high level of urbanization limits the
possibilities of making capital gains through rural-urban land
conversion, while help from parents and relatives, which was important
in the past, is no longer an option for most of the population because
the movement of the wealthier families to the cities is all but
complete. The opportunities for accumulating real estate assets
rapidly have been reduced for the current generation, forcing most
households to turn from the cash purcheses of the past to long-term
financing to satisfy their housing needs.



1.11      The Government's success in reducing inflation since 1982
has also brought about a slowdown in housing markets. The traditional
cash-based operations of Korean housing markets are no longer possible
in the absence of large, quick capital gains induced by inflation.
Moreover, the emergence of the stock market, other types of financial
investments and price stability have reduced the interest in
speculative housing investments. The type of housing demand to be
satisfied now is essentially for first-time ownership by households
for whom housing is a very high priority. The Sixth Plan will be
marked by the emergence of a salaried middle-class with good income
and stable employment who need mortgage finance to purchase housing.
1.12      On the supply side of tlhe housing market, an opporcunity
exists now for the reduction of cyclical instability and the
development of a less skewed distribution in the size of new housing
because the demand for housing is no longer being driven by the lack
of good alternative financial assets in Korea, as it was in the past.
Development of a full housing finance system (HFS) will make
different, indirect and better policy instruments available to
regulate housing output if needed. With the expansion of an
unsubsidized housing finance system for the majority, social housing
policies can be better targeted and the trend toward increasing
dependence on the public sector can be reduc;d. Stable mortgage
financing will have a favorable impact on the performance of the
housing construction industry by reducing the financial risk of unsold
inventories.
1.13      The directed credit policies of the 1970s, which aimed to
ration the household sector out of financial markets, have lost their
original rationale with present high levels of saving and more mature
industries, creating conditions favorable to the gradual modernization
of the HFS. A high national savings rate, above 30% of GNP, is
supporting the growth of the financial system. The household savings
rate has about doubled since 1980 and commercial banks are becoming
interested in household business. More generally, the continuing
modernization of the Korean economy is generating a demand for
financial assets that can be met at least in part by the HFS.
E. Future Policy Directions
1.14      The Sixth Plan (1987-91) continues many policies from
earlier plans but is also characterized by a special emphasis on
social development and the improvement of living standards. In
particular, the Sixth Plan aims to facilitate much-needed
improvements in general housing conditions in response to the
expectations of the increasingly urban population. The Plan includes
the expansion of the financial sector in order to respond to its
social objectives in two ways: by improving the financing oi housing
and by developing financial services adapted to the needs of low- and
middle-income households.



- 6 -
1.15      In the case of the housing sector, the Plan projects an
annual output of 350,000 units per year and an average share of
housing investment in GNP of 6%. As already noted, an important
objective of the Government is to distinguish much more clearly than
in the past between the economic and the social objectives of housiug
policies. By expanding the supply of housing finance, on a market
basis, for the majority of the population, it will become easier to
concentrate public sector activities and resources on the lowest
income groups whose housing conditions have become increasingly
difficult.
1.16      On the financial side, the Plan incorporates many of the
recommendations that were put forward in the Bank sector report
(Korea: Housing Finance System, June 27, 1986, Report No.5807-KO).
Without outlining a specific strategy for the modernization of the
HFS, the Sixth Plan stresses the need to improve the design of
mortgage lending instruments in order to improve access to housing
finance and home ownership by low-income families. For the first time,
a Korean Plan emphasizes the need to develop banking and financial
services for the household sector. This th'rd dimension of the Plan
will directly affect the future resource mobilization activities of
KHB, the potential role of other institutions in housing finance, and
the way households finance their housing.   Previous Plans stressed
only the mobilization of household savings, with the implied
expectation that such savings should then be directed to priority
investments. During the Sixth Plan, the role of financial
institutions such as the Citizens National Bank, credit unions and
mutual credit organizations serving low- and middle-income households
will be expanded. In addition to improving banking services, household
loans will be expanded, investment procedures will be simplified, and
banks will have greater discretion in setting loan ceilings and
adjusting other borrower qualificetion requirements.
F. Experience with Past Lending
1.17     The Bank has supported two National Urban Land Development
and Housing Projects (Loan 1980-KO, US$75.3 million, April 30, 1981
and Loan 2216-KO, US$100 million, December 16, 1982). Both projects
were implemented by KLDC and KNHC. The first is now complete and fully
disbursed while land development for the second is complete and
housing construction will be finished during 1987. The initial loan
assisted in the establishment of KLDC and the second (channeled
through NHF) promoted closer coordination between XNHC and KLDC. Both
projects have been implemented satisfactorily. Policy studies were
financed under both projects which served to initiate domestic
discussion on hous!.ng finance issues and to raise Government's
awareness of land development and housing finance as the major
remaining constraints in the sector. The recently approved Urban Land
Development Project (Loan 2704-KO) addresses the land supply issue,
while the proposed project continues the Bank's involvement in the
remaining issue, the need to modernize the HFS.



- 7 -
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement in the Sector and the Pro ect
1.18      For several years the Bank has been working with the
Government on housing finance issues. The emerging policy directions
are a direct result of this policy dialogue and collaborative
research. The Government has already taken actions on many of the
recommendations of the Bank's sector report on the Korean HFS. The
main thrust of the report was that Government should first clarify
public sector objectives in the HFS then embark upon a number of
reforms. For the market-based HFS the report recommended expansion on
a full-cost basis with specific measures such as higher loan-to-value
ratio and larger mortgages being offered. It also suggested that KHB
explore non-deposit sources of funds and a variety of lending
instruments to better serve the housing sector. For the social housing
program, or NHF, the report recommended that NHF's lending be targeted
to lower income households, that the bias in favor of small units be
increased and that the supply of rental units be promoted through the
provision of long-term financing. There is now agreement between the
Bank and the Government on basic policy directions including the
strategy of integrating housing finance into a liberalized financial
system. This will largely be achieved by treating housing finance
lenders like other banks and by gradually removing disincentives to
lending for housing. Bank involvement in the sector, through the
proposed project, isill help in defining the specific actions required
to implement the policy changes, in improving policy tools, in
establishing the ordor in which policy changes must be implemented and
in transferring to Korea the housing finance experience of other
countries.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Formulation
2.01    As mentioned, studies conducted on a range of housing sector
issues under the two previous Bank-assisted housing projects
identified the underdeveloped state of the HFS as an important
bottleneck in the housing sector. The Bank, therefore, undertook a
housing f4.nance sector study in 1984/85 which was formally discussed
at a seminar in Korea in January 1986. The process of preparing the
sector report and the related ongoing dialogue led to the Government's
request in aid-1986 for Bank financing to support the modernization of
the HFS. The Housing Bureau of MOC has played the central role in
preparing this project because it is responsible for housing policy
as well as for the NHF.
B. Objectives and Description
2.02    The objective of the proposed project is to support measures
designed to expand the HFS over time and increase its effectiveness in
improving housing conditions in Korea, especially for the lower-income
population. Progress toward this objective is facilitated by the
Government's move to differentiate between its social and economic
goals in formulating and implementing policies for the housing sector,



-8 8-
in general, and for the HFS, in particular. The basic strategy is
enunciated in a Policy Statement (PS) (Annex 1), prepared for this
project, and in the Sixth Plani, which sets distinct and different
directions for the market-based HFS and the NHF. The specific measures
supported by the project, as detailed in the Program of Actions and
Studies (PAS) (Annex 1), would advance this overall policy by markedly
increasing the focus of NHF activities on lower-income households,
including the provision of long-term finance for rental construction
and by establishing the preconditions for expansion of the KHB as the
lead institution of the market-based HFS in tandem with financial
sector liberalization. The Government has adopted the PS and PAS in a
letter dated April 12, 1987 (Annex 1). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would annually review progress in
implementing the PAS with the Bank, the first review to take place by
June 30, 1988.
2.03     The project would support the ongoing program of reform of
the HFS, as evidenced in the PS and PAS, by providing, inter alia:
(a)  subloans to eligible borrowers (KNHC, local governments, and
private contractors) for construction finance to be
converted into long-term mortgages for about 210,000 owner-
occupied and rental units, and
(b)  consultant services for assistance in carrying out studies
on (i) resource mobilization and lending program development
for housing, and (ii) the cost and efficiency of public
sector housing programs, and for local and overseas
training.
2.04      The reforms to the HFS encompass both the social housing
programs and the expansion of financial services to the entire sector.
The overall objective of increasing the level of financial
intermediation to the housing sector is necessarily closely linked to
efforts to focus public sector programs on lower-income households.
The reforms can, however, be seen as two distinct categories of
actions. First, the reform of public sector housing finance programs
concentrates on the activities of the NHF. Second, the reform of the
market-based HFS initially addresses the future of KHB but also
includes measures designed to encourage the entry of additional
lenders.
2.05      The principal purpose of the reforms to the social housing
programs and NHF is to focus their benefits more explicitly on lower-
income families. Four measures to improve the targeting of NHF
programs are involved. First, the income of households will now be
considered in selecting borrowers for the smaller NHF units (12 py and
smaller - 1 py equals 3.3 sq m) by initially restricting access to
those households at or below the average urban household income.
Although no precise information exists on the income of recent
borrowers, many are believed to have had above-average incomes.
Second, in a further effort to direct NHF programs to lower-income
households, the maximum size eligible unit is being reduced from 25.7
py to 18 py. This is a considerable restriction since one quarter of



9-
the units financed by NHF during 1985 were over 18 py.   Third, tax
concessions favoring smaller houses are to be restricted to even
smaller units. Fourth, various measures will be taken under NHF
programs to treat the buyers of the smaller units more favorably
relative to larger units and thus to reach the lower-income buyers.
The PAS confirms that the Government has (a) introduced an income
restriction on borrowers from the NHF and (b) reduced the maximum size
unit eligible for NHF financing.
2.06     The present public housing programs have been developed over
the past 15 years in response to specific concerns and independent
problems. One result has been a largfr than intended presence of the
public sector in the housing market but a slower improvement in the
supply and a larger average size of new units than desired. To better
understand and correct this situation, the Government proposes to
undertake a study of how expenditures in public sector housing
program4 can be restructured to better achieve their stated objectives
and to provide appropriate incentives between private and public
sector projects and among the various income groups. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the study of the costs and efficiency of
public sector housing programs (including the appropriate size and
structure of subsidies) would be undertaken, the results made
available to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1988. Draft terms of
reference for the study are given in Annex 8.
2.07     In the past, all public housing programs were concentrated
on promoting owner-occupancy. Although access to ownership remains the
basic tenet of housing policy in Korea, it is recognized that such an
approach does not directly address the housing needs of the poorest.
For this reason, public housing programs will pay increasing attention
to expanding the quantity and increasing the quality of affordable
rental accommodation, primarily through the provision of finance.
Specific actions supported by this project include (a) increased NHF
lending for rental construction, especially to private sector
developers, (b) encouragement of smaller rental projects (a minimum of
5 units, down from 10), (c) favorable tax treatment of investment in
rental housing and (d) a study of the effect and appropriateness of
present incentives to support the establishment of a rental industry,
including, inter alia, the present subsidized interest rate of 5%
charged by NHF for rental housing. These actions would be carried out
under the PAS. The study mentioned in (d) would be included in the
analysis of public sector housing programs described in para. 2.06.
2.08     Since the resources available to public sector agencies are
now being further concentrated on lower-income households, the rest of
the HFS will need to be expanded. The centerpiece of the strategy to
reform the market-based housing finance system is a set of measures
which will enable KHB to respond to the expected increase in demand
for housing loans. The Government also is beginning to develop the
policy framework for KHB and other lenders to efficiently provide
expanded financial services to the housing sector. Toward these ends,
the Government is amending the KHB Act and associated implementation
regulations. The purpose of such revision is to enlarge the capital
base of KHB and permit an expansion of resource mobilization and



- 10 -
lending. These changes would, in turn, broaden the scope of business
activities permitted to KHB so that it may better compete with other
financial institutions, besides helping to increase the autonomy of
KHB management to improve its performance in a more liberal financial
system. The PAS contains the provision that amendment of the KHB Act
as well as all associated implementation regulations will be completed
not later than September 1, 1987.
2.09      Besides the immediate measures to be taken to expand KIB,
longer-term issues concern both mobilization and lending activities in
the HFS. Foremost among these is the need to develop more lending
instruments to suit the increasingly diversified housing market in
Korea. In addition to the larger loans and higher loan-to-value ratios
supported by this loan, the Government intends to explore a number of
specific lending instruments such as mortgages for older homes and
differential pricing of various types of loans, both for KHB and other
potential lenders. Mortgage insurance also will be investigated as one
measure that could induce the entry of additional housing lenders. On
the mobilization side, the Government intends to study how KHB might
rationalize its existing deposit schemes to mobilize the most funds at
the lowest cost. It will also study how wholesale mobilization
directly from capital markets or other financial institutions might
serve the mortgage industry. Draft terms of reference for the study
on resource mobilization and lending program development for housing
finance are given in Annex 7. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the study, under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank, would be undertaken, the results made available to the Bank
for comment by December 31, 1988.
C. Project Cost
2.10      The proposed project would finance a two-year time-slice
(mid-1987 through mid-1989) of the Government-'s National Housing Fund
program, estimated to cost W1,240.6 billion (US$1,442.5 million
equivalent) in current prices as of January 1987. Foreign exchange
costs, estimated at 401 of non-land costs, amount to approximately
US$375 million or 26% of total project costs.  The local cost
component of the project is estimated at US$1,067 million. Table 2.1
gives project costs. Physical and price contingencies have not been
calculated because the project is a sector oper.tion, financing a
time-slice of an ongoing program. Land acquisition costs are not
expected to exceed 35% of total project costs. Project costs include
taxes estimated at US$40.4 million equivalent.



- 11 -
TABLE 2.1: PROJECT COsrS
Local Foreign Total       Local Foreign Total
Prolect Components    ----(Won million)--       ---(US$ million)----
NHF Housing Program
Rental Units    381,011 133,869   514,880  443.0  155.7  598.7
Sale Units       536,732 188,512   725,244   624.1  219.2  843.3
Training, Studies         258     172       430     0.3   0.2      0.5
Total                 918,001 322,553  1,240.554 1,067.4  375.1 1,442.5
D. Financini Plan
2.11     The proposed Bank loan of US$150 million would finance about
40% of the estimated foreign exchange requirements of the project and
about 10% of total costs. The Government would finance the remaining
costs. Bank loan proceeds would be passed from the Government to NHF
on Bank loan terms plus a fee of 0.05%. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk. Onlending terms for sale housing projects are
currently 10% for two to three years (the construction period) to
developers and 10% for 20 years for final beneficiaries. A new but
growing program provides loans for construction and ownership of
rental projects are made for 20 years at a promotional interest rate
of 5%. All NHF interest rates are positive in real terms (inflation is
currently estimated at 3%). The financing plan is shown below:
TABLE 2.2: FINANCING PLAN
Local     Foreign      Total    Share
---(US$ million)----
Government        1,067.4      225.1     1,292.5      90%
Bank  Loan          -          150.0       150.0      10%
Total            1,067.4       375.1     1,442.5     1_0k
E. Implementation
2.12     The project would be implemented by the Ministry of
Construction (KOC) on behalf of the Government. NHF is administered on
a day-to-day basis by KHB staff who have extensive experience in
lending for housing. KHB is adequately staffed and well managed for
this purpose. Responsibility for carrying out the Program of Actions



- 12 -
and Studies will also be with the Housing Bureau of the Ministry of
Construction (HB/MOC). A consultative committee will be established
before contracts are signed for the studies to oversee the measures
and studies concerning several ministries. The Ministry of Finance,
the Economic Planning Board, the KNHC, the KLDC and the KHB will be
included as appropriate. A similar arrangement has worked effectively
for studies carried out under previous Bank-supported housing loans in
Korea. Local and overseas training focused on (a) the development of
housing finance systems and (b) analysis of finance markets are
included for staff of the Ministries of Finance and Construction as
well as the Economic Planning Board. Land acquisition for housing
programs in Korea has not been a legal or administrative problem but
has implications for low-income projects due to high costs. KLDC,
which has recently received a Bank loan, has been able to deliver its
targeted amounts of land in recent years.
2.13     The Government's progress in implementing the provisions of
the PS and the PAS would be monitored during project supervision. The
first supervision mission will review the status of studies and assess
the impact of policy measures already adopted. Subsequent supervision
missions will monitor implementation of the recommendations that
emerge from studies.
F. Disbursement
2.14      NHF funds are disbursed to borrowers (whether KNHC, local
governments or private builders) based on the physical progress of the
project. To facilitate loan administration and expedite project
implementation, the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would reimburse
NHF only for expenditures made against contracts of US$500,000
equivalent or more that are procured by local competitive bidding
procedures consistent with Bank guidelines. Disbursements would be
made against statements of expenditures (SOE) for 40% of NHF subloans.
The related documentation will not be sent to the Bank but will be
held by NHF and made available to the Bank upon request.
2.15     To help avoid cash flow problems and to better ensure smooth
project implementation, a Special Account of US$20 million, the
equivalent of approximately four months reimbursement requirements, is
proposed under the Bank loan. The Special Account would be managed by
MOC for NHF.
2.16     Disbursement of the Bank loan is scheduled over four years
and is based on the standard disbursement profile for development
finance projects in Korea, adjusted in the first two years to reflect
the initial deposit to the Special Account. However, if demand for NHF
funds is sufficiently strong, the Bank would encourage and facilitate
disbursement over a shorter period.   The proposed disbursement
schedule is given in Annex 5. All expenditures of NHF made after loan
signing, subject to the minimum contract size, would be eligible. The
loan closing date would be June 30, 1991.



- 13 -
G. Procurement
2.17      The proposed project involves a time-slice of a program
using procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Separate
procedures apply to each of the three principal categories of
borrowers eligible for NHF housing construction loans, i.e., KNHC,
local governments and private contractors. The Accounting and
Budgeting Law of 1961 governs procurement by KNHC (which is expected
to absorb about 40% of NHF lending) and other autonomous government
agencies. Under the provisions of this law, all contracts valued at
more than US$500,000 equivalent must be procured by local competitive
bidding (LCB) according to procedures established by the Office of
Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK) that are consistent with Bank
guidelines. Foreign firms are not prohibited from bidding under LCB in
Korea. All civil works contracts valued at US$8 million equivalent or
more would be reviewed in advance by the Bank. This prior review limit
is expected to cover about 30% of the value of all contracts. In 1986,
contracts valued over US$8 million represented 32% of the value of all
contracts. The criteria to be used for the evaluation and selection of
subprojects are acceptable to the Bank (Annex 4). In two previous
housing projects undertaken directly by KNHC with Bank financing, the
procurement procedures of KNHC were modified to include international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures for contracts of more than US$2
million. However, foreign firms have shown no interest in bidding for
housing contracts in Korea. No foreign firms have even submitted their
names for prequalification in response to advertisements placed
internationally by KNHC. ICB is therefore not proposed for the present
project.
2.18     The procurement procedures of local governments (which would
develop some 20% of all housing financed from NHF funds) are governed
by the Local Government Finance Law of 1963 which follows closely the
procedures applicable for autonomous agencies of the central
government. Municipal housing contracts are not attractive to foreign
firms, and local competitive bidding applies to all contracts of more
than US$500,000 equivalent under terms and conditions consistent with
Bank guidelines. Smaller contracts of less than US$500,000 equivalent
are let by local procedures that are designed to foster small
contractors and that include soliciting bids from at least three
parties. The remaining 40% of NHF-financed housing would be built by
private builders who solicit NHF finance for individual project
proposals that typically comprise 50 to 150 housing units. These
private companies do their own construction work. To be accepted for
NHF financing, the projects must conform to the design standards
stipulated by the Government for low-income housing which are
acceptable to the Bank. The contractors must show that they have
sufficient experience and finances to complete the projects and that
the NHF loan is well secured. In addition, there are elements of
competition which ensure that the cost of housing developed by private
contractors is consistent with the costs derived from competitive
bidding for the public sector program and, therefore, efficient. The
studies supported by the project will be contracted, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, to experienced local research
institutes that have previously done satisfactory work for MOC.



- 14 -
H. Accounts and Audits
2.19      NHP and KHB accounting systems and audit arrangements are
satisfactory, although timeliness of submission of audit reports to
the Bank has been a problem because of the lengthy review process.
The system of accounts and audit used in the second Bank-assisted
project would be retained for this project. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that separate accounts would be maintained by NHF and
audited by the Government's Board of Audit and Inspection. The audit
would include saparate statements on SOEs and the Special Account and
would be submitted to the Bank no later than nine months after the end
of each fiscal year. KHB would not be required to submit audited
accounts for its own operations since it will receive no Bank funds.
Quarterly reports would be prepared by MOC and submitted to the Bank
within 30 days of the completion of each calendar quarter. A Project
Completion Report would be submltted within six months of project
completion.
III. PEDJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Justification and Benefits
3.01     The principal justification of the project is that it would
assist the Government in reforming the HFS to make it a more effective
tool for achieving housing policy objectives and a more efficient
channel for resources flowing to the housing sector. This would be
achieved by supporting measures to target and eventually reduce the
share of public expenditures in the sector. The project also supports
Government's complementary efforts to expand the market-based supply
of mortgages by assisting in establishing a program for KHB which
will permit it to better respond to the demand for housing loans from
all Koreans. Borrowers would benefit both from increased availability
of loans  and from the effic'ency gains of mobilization through the
formal finance system.
3.02       The main benefits of the project would be:  (a) the
additional housing units financed, (b) increased effectiveness of
public expenditures in the sector and (c) reduced costs of financial
intermediation for home buyers. NHF would make approximately 210,000
individual loans for the purchase of housing, including some 80,000
loans to support the construction of rental accommodation. All of the
recipients are expected to be from the bottom half of the urban income
4istribution and the renters from the bottom quarter. The most direct
benefits of the project will be more targeted public expenditures and
more efficient financial intermediation. Neither has been quantified
because these benefits can not easily be measured for the purpose of
calculating a conventional economic rate of return. However, the
housing projects to be financed with NHF loans using the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan are subject to traditional economic analysis.
Based on the most recent costs axid rents in Korea, the economic rate
of return for the housing financed by the project is estimated to be
15% (Annex 6).



- 15 -
B. Risks
3.03      The main risks of the project Involve noncompliance or
delayed compliance with agreed housing strategies. However, these
risks are not large because the sector dialogue between the Bank and
the Government has resulted in close coincidence of views on desirable
policy directions and institutional reforms. The Government is already
taking action on many agreed measures.
IV.     h      GREUTS R ECHED AND  IEC10011TION
4.01     The Government has adopted the Policy Statement and Program
of Actions and Studies (para. 2.02).
4.02     Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  the Government will annually review progress in implementing
the PAS with the Bank (para. 2.02);
(b)  a study of costs and efficiency in public sector housing
programs would be undertaken, the results made available
to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1988   (para. 2.06
and 2.07);
(c)  a study on  resource mobilization and lending program
development for housing finance would be undertaken and the
results made available to the Bank for comment by December
31, 1988 (para. 2.09);
(d)  subprojects would be selected according to criteria
acceptable to the Bank (para. 2.17); and
(e)  separate accounts would be maintained by NHF and audited by
the Government's Board of Audit and Inepection whose
opinion, along with the audited accounts (including SOEs and
the Special Account), would be submitted to the Bank no
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year
(para. 2.19).
4.03      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$150 million, for a term of 15 years,
including a grace period of 3 years, at the standard variable interest
rate. The borrower would be the Republic of Korea.



-16-               Annex I - page1
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
Mr. Barber B. Conable                          April 12, 1987
President
The International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
Reference : Proposed U$ 150 million Loan for Housing Finance
Sector Project
Dear Mr. Conable :
Herewith attached are a Policy Statement and a Program of Actions
and Studies, which have been adopted by the Ministry of Construction
(MOC), and which describe the principal policies and programs that
MOC will pursue to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of
housing sector in Korea.
Looking forward to your further cooperation.
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
Ky Hyo Lee
Minister of Construction
Attachment : PS and PAS



- 17 -            Annex 1 - page 2
KOREA
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
Policy Statement on Housing Finance Development
1.        This policy statement is furnished in connection with a
proposed IBRD loan in support of a program of improvement of the
housing finance system in Korea. In the sections below, the Government
is pleased to set-out the main policy directions it proposes to take
for the further development of the housing finance system, the steps
that have already been taken to implement our housing finance strategy
and the program that we plan to pursue in the coming years.
Backgroi.nd
2.        In recent years the performance of the Korean economy has
enabled most macro-economic targets to be met or surpassed. With a
stronger and more developed economy, during the Sixth Five-Year
Economic and Social Development Plan, the Government intends to give
special emphasis to broader socioeconomic objectives so as to improve
the welfare and living standards of the people. In particular, we
propose to devote considerable attention during the coming years to
the housing sector, both to facilitate much needed improvements in
general housing conditions, and to respond to the legitimate
aspirations of our increasingly urban society for home ownership. The
Government is conscious that housing is the single largest asset for
almost all households and an important motive for saving. A strong and
dynamic housing sector also has positive linkages to industries, such
as domestic construction and household durable goods, and can
stimulate economic development which is less dependent on external
factors.
3.        The policies, instruments and institutional framework that
are currently in place will need to be improved and expanded in order
to meet the growing housing needs of Korea. Government action will
focus upon removing the constraints which now prevent the housing
finance system from responding, more fully, to the increased demand
for housing. We would do this by, inter alia,:
a. restructuring public housing programs to effectively
reach the lowest income groups, and
b. expanding the availability of long-term finance.



-18 -
Annex 1 - page 3
4.        The present continued growth in household incomes, the
achievement of price stability and a high rate of financial savings
have created both the need and new opportunities for developing an up-
to-date and more appropriate housing finance system which can
strengthen the effectiveness of public housing programs and contribute
to Korea's transition to a mature, advanced society. The high quality
portfolio of Korea Housing Bank (KHB), the major housing lender, and
the ongoing liberalization of the financial sector already provide
opportunities for a more diversified, innovative and efficient system
where more funds would be mobilized and new types of attractive
housing loans would be offered to home buyers. The already extensive
assistance provided from the National Housing Fund (NHF) will be
provided to the needy on an efficient and effective basis.
Long-term Oblectives
5.         The Government's long-term objectives for housing and
housing finance are stated in the Sixth Plan. The fundamental goal is
to improve housing conditions for all income groups with an emphasis
on lower-income households. The housing finance system should be
expanded to help all Koreans secure better housing, while direct
public sector initiatives will be targeted to the lowest income
households to improve their housing conditions which have become
increasingly difficult.
6.        Public housing programs would no longer be exclusively
focused on ownership, as in the past, because there is a growing
consensus that the policy of promoting only owner-occupancy with
public agencies can not assist the lower-income househelds. Government
therefore will seek to promote reasonably priced rental housing for
these people. Although it has not been deliberate Government policy to
increase the public sector share in housing, in the recent past the
Government has been increasingly drawn into the market, in,part
because of the limitations of the housing finance system inherited
from earlier years. in the future the Government will carry out its
role to assist the lowest income households to improve their housing
status by focusing public programs, more narrowly, on the truly needy
and by broadening the types of assistance available to eligible
households. This will be done in line with the Government's overall
social priorities and public spending guidelines. These social goals,
as they pertain to the housing finance system, will be the unambiguous
objective of the NHF.
7.          During che Sixth Plan period, the financing of home
ownership for the middle-income groups will be further differentiated
from the public programs and appropriate institutions, policies and
instruments will be expanded or developed. Future home buyers should
be served by a financially autonomous and flexibly managed housing
finance system. This process will be made more efficient by
broadening the scope of mobilization efforts and lending options and
by encouraging the entry of new len4ers and innovative financial
instruments.



- 19 -
Annex 1 - page 4
A Program for the HousinR Finance System
8.       In order to achieve these objectives the Government intends
to strengthen the housing finance system as a key policy instrument to
promote stable and healthy development of the housing sector. Housing
policies in general will be differentiated further to take into
account different income levels as well as regional characteristics.
These changes make necessary the transformation to an expanded,
diversified and more effective housing finance Pystem.
9.        For public housing the policy is, thus, for public housing
programs to have a maximum impact on improving housing for the poorest
while ensuring that public resources are devoted to helping the lowest
income households, who have the greatest need, and to bring additional
private resources into the rental market by means such as:
a. more effective targeting of recipients of loans for home
purchase by introducing selection criteria such as income
level as well as a reduced maximum size of eligible new unit,
b. providing appropriate incentives and expanded finance for
rental housing for lower-income households, and
c. introducing a variety of new lending methods and instruments
which support the construction and ownership of units for
rental.
10.        For the  market-based housing finance system, which is
expected to serve households who do not require direct public
assistance, the objective is to provide adequate financial services to
those who can not self-finance suh a large, long-term investment as
housing. In order to facilitate the gradual integration of housing
finance within the financial markets increased reliance will be given
to the role of interest rates as a way to balance the supply of and
demand for mortgages in a manner consistent with the Government's
long-term financial policies. The ability of various financial
institutions to mobilize more savings and expand their lending
activities for housing in response to household demand will be
enhanced. To achieve these objectives it is tha policy of the
Government to increase the sources and volume of long-term funds
available for mortgage lending by:
a. improving deposit mobilization from households by
rationalizing the existing deposit and savings schemes in
order to maximize savings and minimize the cost of mobilizing
them, and
b. developing the regulatory and supervisory system which would
promote the creation and possible trading of suitable
financial instruments and encourage other financial
institutions, including pension and insurance funds, to
diversify into long-term financial assets funding the housing
secv.or,



- 20 -
Annex 1 - page 5
11.        Given the increasing size and diversity of the Korean
housing market, it is the Government's objective to encourage the
development of a greater variety of lending instruments to serve the
varied needs of different buyers through a combination of measures
such as:
a. providing the option to increase the size of mortgage
relative to home purchase pri^es,
b. offering alternative repayment schedules, and
c. removing the bias toward the purchase of new dwellings by
also financing the purchase of generally cheaper and
older homes.
12.        The policies outlined in this statement are also manifest
in the Sixth Plan. Some of the measures supporting these policies are
already under implementation while others are planned during the life
of the project and still others will require further study.



-21 -
Annex 1 - page 6
Program of Actions and Studies during 1986-88
A. PUBLICLY SPONSORED HOUSING DEVELRPNE
1. Improved Targeting of NHF Programs
In order to focus public housing programs more explicitly on
lower income families the Government is increasing incentives to
construct smaller housing units and introducing an income ceiling for
uHF borrowers. The follow' ng actions are involved:
a.   the introduction of income as a criteria, less than the
average bousehold level, for selecting NHF borrowers for
units of 12 py and less on May 31, 1986,
b.   a reduction in the maximum size of housing unit eligible for
NHF funding from 25.7 py to 18.0 py in 1986,
C.   a reduction, from 25.7 py. to 18.9 py, in the maximum size
of housing unit qualifying for tax concessions on January 1,
1987, and
d.   an increase, from 14% (1986) to 40% (1987) of NHF financing
devoted to the smallest size category of units which average
less than 10 py.
2. Rental Market Policies
In order for housing policy to better address the needs of
lower income households increased investment in rental housing will be
encouraged by:
a.   an increased share, from 30% (1986) to 40% (1987),of NHF
lending going for rental units with the entire increase
allotted to private developers,
b.   the amendment of income tax legislation in 1986 to encourage
employers to provide rental housing for workers applicable
as of January 1, 1987,
c.   reduction of capital gains tax  for dwellings used as rental
units at least 5 years (50%) or at least 10 years (100%),
effective January 1, 1987,
d.   the reduction of the minimum number of units in a rental
project from 10 to 5 to be eligible for borrowing from NHF
on March 5, 1986, and



- 22 -           Annex 1 - page 7
e.   all of the policy measures listed above will be evaluated
along with an analysis of altesnative financial instruments
(eg. interest rates, tax rates and pricing policy for major
inputs such as land) and institutional arrangements (eg.
role of private versus public sector) for rental housing
through a study to be completed by December 31, 1988.
3. Evaluation of Public Housing Programs
In order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of public
housing programs the Government intends to review all present and
proposed programs with the objective of rationalizing various pricing
and other policies in the sector. The objective is to compare the
treatment in terms of access to finance, serviced land and fiscal
incentives of various programs such as those for owner occupants
versus renters, publicly versus privately developed, smaller versus
larger units, etc. The following actions are involved:
a.   a study of the structure and distribution of subsidies in
the public housing programs, to be completed not later than
September 30, 1988 to consider how subsidies can be
restructured to set them at levels appropriate to the
objectives and to provide a smooth transition across income
groups and between public and private programs; and
b.   the preparation of a specific plan which includes a funding
strategy for NHF and determines the terms and conditions of
its access to funds from the National Pension Funds.



- 23 -
Annex 1 - page 8
B. NARKET-BASED HOUSING FINANCE SYSTEK
Since the resources available to the public sector are now
being redirected to lower income households - as they should be -
improvements in the market-based system must also take place. These
improvements must insure that the households who do not need special
assistance will also gain easier access to housing finance services.
These improvements will take the form of (1) revisions in the KHB
mandate, (2) operationally oriented studies of improvements in
resource mobilization and (3) parallel studies of lending for housing.
1. Revision of KHB'S Mandate
The overall goals for the market-based housing finance
system are reflected in the Sixth Five-year Plan. The volume of
lending from KHB will be expanded and the scope of services will be
enlarged. In support of this objective, Government has revised the KHB
Act on December 2, 1986. All implementation regulations will be
completed by July 1,198i. Theses revisions will:
a.   substantially increase the authorized capital from W50 b. to
W300 billion,
b.   enlarge the scope of business activities permitted KHB in
order to better serve its customers, and
c.   increase the autonomy of KHB's management to mobilize funds
from the capital markets by permitting bond issuance without
Government approval.
2. Fund Mobilization for the Housing Finance System
In -rder to expand the housing finance system on a
financially viable basis the sources and cost of funds will need to be
adjusted in line with the broader financial sector and the economy.
To achieve this objective a study will be carried out on the long-term
outlook for all sources of funds for the housing finance system to be
completed not later than December 31, 1988. The study will consider
measures:
a.   to use KHB bonds to lengthen maturities in the capital
markets,
b.   to expand KHB's access to capital markets, such as the
market-rate bonds, and to increase the participation of
other institutions in financing the housing sector,
c.   to design financial instruments which will bring informal
financing (chonsei)into the formal financial sector, and
d.   to enhance  KHB's competitiveness in attracting deposits
through better designed savings schemes.



- 24 -
Annex 1 - page 9
3. Development of New Lending Programs
In order to increase the efficiency of investment in the
housing sector and to better serve home buyers, new lending
instruments are under development and will be introduced
progressively.
A study of the demand for various types of housing loans and
the design of additional lending instruments will be completed not
later than December 31, 1988. The study will include consideration of:
a.   increases in the LTV consistent with the availability of
resources,
b.   gradual extension of loans for the purchase of older
dwellings by relaxing the present limitation of financing
houses less than five years old (to be changed to 10 years
early in 1987),
c.  fully adjustable interest rates for housing loans, and
d.  the appropriate pricing of new lending instruments with an
explicit basis for adjustment of interest rates.



- 25 -         Annex 2 - Page 1
KOREKA
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
National Housing Fund
Programs and Financial Statements
1.        The National Housing Fund (NHF), the Government's social
housing window, was established as a distinct program in 1981 when the
National Housing Construction Loan Account was separated from Korea
Housing Bank (KHB) to distinguish its social objectives and criteria
from KHB's more market-oriented lending activities and to permit
better policy guidance to NHF. Government policy direction arnd
management are provided by the Housing Bureau of the Ministry of
Construction (MOC/14B).
2.        The purpose of NHF is to provide long-term mortgage
financing to lower-income "homeless" households (those not owning
their own house, tenants occupying a shared unit or households
displaced by disaster), using funds raised by the Government from the
general public (savings deposits, bonds, lotteries) and public
entities (budgetary contributions,  pension funds).   Initially,
emphasis was placed on home ownership as the approach for all family
situations, but more recently rental housing has been recognized as a
more appropriate product for many lower-income households. MOC/HB
plans to give increasing emphasis to rental housing in NHF programs
during the Sixth Plan (1987-91). NHF finances housing projects of the
Korea National Housing Corporation (KNHC), local governments and
private developers which, in the case of housing for sale, are
marketed by the borrowing developers to individual households
whereupon the construction financing is converted to long-term
individual NHF mortgage loans. In the case of housing for rental, the
owner/developer's construction finance is converted to long-term
mortgage finance upon completion, provided the units remain rental
housing.
3.        NHF is administered for MOC/HB by KHB through its NHF
Department which has a total of 43 staff in three divisions (planning,
fund-raising, and loans). Staff of the NHF Department carry out the
day-to-day responsibilities associated with the housing programs noted
above, including the evaluation of individual private developer
projects, the mobilization of the various sources of funds, and the
processing, management and repayment collection of the 475,000
individual NHF mortgage loans made in 1981-86. They also maintain
NHF's accounts. The performance of KHB staff designated to work on
NHF in carrying out these responsibilities has been very good. Loan
collection has been excellent, vith problem loans (six months or more
in arrears) consistently less than 1% of portfolio. KHB is
compensated for these services by a fee of 1.5% of NHF loans
outstanding.



- 26 -          Annex 2 - Page 2
4.        NHF's distinct goals and objectives warrant viewing it as an
entity and its separate accounts permit such an analysis. In general,
NHF has been well managed and is financially sound. It is profitable
(since 1985) and relatively well capitalized. Major funding sources
have been buoyant and have ensured that the term transformation
(the mismatch of maturities of assets and liabilities) inherent in
housing finance has not created a liquidity problem. NHF has grown
rapidly since its inception in 1981, with total assets (almost
entirely mortgage loans) quadrupling to W 2,853 billion in 1986. NHF
has a wide variety of funding sources including housing bonds (a
below-market instrument whose purchase in required to obtain various
licenses and permits), individual savings deposits, pension funds,
lottery profits and government capital contributions as well as
borrowings. Housing bonds have been the single most important source
of funds, accounting for almost 60% of total funds raised in 1981-86.
5.           The capital base (made up of Government's direct
contributions, retained earnings and annual lottery profits earmarked
for NHF) is relatively strong, having reached W 278 billion in 1986.
Government contributions have been the single most important source of
capital, accounting for 66%. The capital base is important because of
the term transformation inherent in housing finance: NHF's assets are
almost entirely 20-year graduated payment mortgage (GPM) loans while
bonds, savings deposits, pension funds and other funding sources with
terms of 5 years or less represent nearly 85% of total liabilities
(less capital). This tends to limit current assets in relation to
current liabilities generated by the funding sources, as indicated by
the current ratio which has averaged 0.42 in the last three years.
This has not proved to be a problem as NHF's main sources of funds,
government-guaranteed housing bonds, have been quite buoyant and have,
along with Government's capital contributions, provided the necessary
liquidity with little difficulty. In addition, NHF mortgage loans are
based on an adjustable rate instrument which reduces the interest rate
risk.
6.        Profitability is currently adequate.  NHF has low-cost
sources of funds, particularly the housing bonds which pay 3%-5%,
while 85% of its portfolio is in loans currently yielding 10%. The
average interest expense during the period 1981-86 was 7.1% and
average interest income was 9%, generating an average spread of 1.9%
(2.4% since 1984). In 1982-84 this spread was not sufficient to cover
administrative costs and NHF operated at a loss. However, since 1984
the spreads have been sufficient to cover these costs plus a
substantial contribution to capital.
7.        Over the period of the Sixth Plan, NHF expects to finance
630,000 housing units, increasing its annual rate from 100,000 units
in 1987 to 160,000 units in 1991. The relatively new program to
stimulate rental housing will receive increased emphasis, with
financing for 208,000 rental units planned for the period compared to
73,000 units during the 1981-86 period. It is expected to represent
about 32% of NHF lending by 1991. This program will require the
mobilization of W3,955 billion which will be raised from the sources



- 27 -          Annex 2 - Page 3
used to date plus several new sources. Savings deposits are expected
to decline in importance and other traditional sources (housing bonds,
pension funds, lottery profits) are expected to grow, but rather
slowly. Government contributions will increase from W100 billion in
1987 to W200 billion in 1991 (when they will represent 18% of funds
raised).
8.       Two new sources, a market-rate National Housing Bond (3-year
term) and a National Pension Fund (at near market rates), are expected
to start contributing in 1988 and will represent 46% of funds raised
by 1991. IBRD loan proceeds will help fill the gap in 1987 and 1988
while these new sources are being developed, providing about 10% of
funding requirements during this period. The balance of funding
requirements will be met by existing sources of borrowing (existing
housing bonds and pension funds), loan repayments, government capital
contributions and NHF net income. Total assets are expected to
increase 1.9 times during the Sixth Plan to W6,274 billion and,
with capital increasing to W1,797 billion, the debts/ to equity ratio
is expected to fall to 2.2:1 (from. 7.1:1 in 1986).  The term
transformation situation will be improved somewhat with increased
capitalization, but with current liabilities continuing to be more
than twice current assets (current ratio .53 in 1991) continuing
attention will have to be paid to liquidity. Profitability will
remain good throughout the period with the interest rate spread
improving to an average of 4.3% and annual operating surplus
contributions to capital (averaging 13.5% of capital). With loan
collection expected to remain good, NHF should end the Sixth Plan in a
generally improved financial position.
NHF LOAN CHARACTERISTICS
as of January 1, 1987
Interest      Repayment       % of 1986
Type                     Rate           Period         Lending
Sale Housing               10%          20 years,         56%
1 year grace
Rental Housing              5%          20 years,         21%
5 years grace
Other (rural,
displaced
families, etc.)     10%          20 years,         23%
1 year grace
100%
1/ Debt in this case is all "borrowed' funds--those requiring
repayment--e.g.  all liabilities.   Total debt equals  long-term
liabilities plus current liabilities and long-term debt equals long-
term liabilities.



- 28 -                                       ANNEX 2 - Page 4
AMA
INIU   FI#E   SECTOR P1lNECt
miI. WIN fR
BMW370 AU USES O F F=t 1981-9l"I
(u    aillisl
1991     1962      199       1904      1995      1914              1tn(tl  1l9Utst)  1999l ,t)  19"0(nt)  1992nt)
SVIN  1EMITS                                             13125      3434   1304      191192    2651    -4613'                 -14031       -4134       -4134       -4134       -4134
@1   INOUI  NNll                                        126131   179527   223        1752   1400         132252                 717         23962       67          6790        6186
02  WUSIN  BONN                                                              610     101131   ?7579       7262                  25000       25000       25000       250         2500
PFUSON FMDS                                              39000    45767    2454    -12100    -6767          212                 l04o0       11000       15243        20
illD LU  221-0                                                                  9      5        4114    2029
1590 LOWHF11 PROJE=t                                                                                                            70J99       5P0
UlTIN.K P11           -II                                                                                                                       0      250000      40000       500000
LCA NM  III    DEMII Ti0                                                                                                       -7300
TOTAL   UN IE                                         17325    27973   447314   41           27673    22                     311472      220         306         42 6        5102
LOTTR  PROFITS                                             12t                965    11914    106         1151o                  0o0        11o00       300         300         300
10  INTIEREBT   11WIS111611S                            22W7    6164        775      73921    46416       -350                -19%         46965      %591        44"3         59454
LU   mit2"Eitti                                           25       477    44721    292 3 1632    10476                          9597?       67937       7630        729"        3M7
UvuNIT f1U1t1                                                      390       44000                       1000                   00         15000       1s00        150         20
MT MM                                                     1912    -1302   -25M7       -9        169       31400                 9146       1 02        1450        1466        1457M
MAL OTHER 1 m0                                         53213   156753    155   105013   11166    19303                       35117       39 4        45901       334715      52199
TOTAL SUCh                                              231469   435491   5 4    5701%    34M    44722                         61n         67072       764147      7403t    109M 1
WPLICATIlI Of FMll
if LEIIDIUS
-_fIL "AM
HILL  llt P3099R0                                                                                                                       2           351t"         4         6
to"13* Pm     m                                                   6502        7     S9          ;5119   114771              29"12        247513       337       234          249613
Su    PROETS                                            2         2447     364141    9 t6   E96           3S037                325137      344122      3962M51                 6244
OMER (IEfUiE, _1I                                         56        4230    106       12940      6079   15477                   30176       207         2"7         33           9
TOTAL 1                                              20401   257107   31439   66102            M925   54505                  W2          3 6        4922         3475    101136
2I0 LOAN 221Ht0                                                                                            2990                 5415        5415        5415        5415        5415
1330 L-Fs PowECt                                                                                                                                                                  3
TOTAL MT r                                                                                               2990                 5413        5415        5415        5415       11246
INIS  (ICE) n 19t1 CIITL
OM        to   CMiMc                                   -3U4    -264      -5     -16341        2170      242
TOTAL WFLCTIO                                           230037Mt 254350             44961   401095   no2                      6564        64512       7MM3        OM"        10263
ins t.mam      muim    muom    301013  0138013ss                                    s~  0202om       iniA        Santa
IN ASE (DEIEAI IN CASH                                    1432   201023   2661   -79565  -2129  -103199                         94         520              0     -74656       47416
WIlllS IYIN                                              130    17970   I"9          4154   34199    129350                    26152       9u61        1t15       l2713O       9441
INCREASEIUECaEK6E                                         1432    91023   2221   -75    -2129   10319                          59          25420       5933       -7418        47416
CmOStil CASH                                             1767    19993   421554 3I989   12950    26152                           6100      2l12        21350        94491     13?



29 -                                  ANNEX 2 - Page 5
011911 P11 0 f   ECTUR PWRAI ET
MTIMIAL 11I1810 FIND
(a million)
1991     1912      1993     1994      l6        1966             1907("t) 1900("tt)  19891st)  1"0(ostl  I"Iot
ASH NM OItlRE  IIS1                           17670   19893   421554   34199   12M50    26152                    6610       111520     171310       9491       16390
C0R    T POTIN       S LOW J   LE             245    39296        NO       64923   11030   1997                   7m97       766           9        677M       111162
TOTAL 0iIIT ASETS                           47115   2X31      47733   426912   2390   22211                   15037       186350     244339      16426       2750
WERATIU AS
11316 LS
ML UIIT RETAL                                                                                                            2245        5S         114122      163677
RESIR ENRTAL                                         6502    1632    70U    132           242                492715      7360        62        1191770    141671i
tE                                        4683     676177  100255  15702  202                               246 H 27   2432        3 6         31240      411
OTH   (MEME,          )                    6670    705          6i        33    6160117 t6%3                 206         223473     245120      26762       291026
LOTA  AWTI           18                     1565    753132  1076737  164    222265   261316                  3163626    376693    435266    1933    599158
TOTAL ASETS                                  602766    "1321  14100  21113    2462034  23                      3317662    391103          5       52 1        6273637
LIAILITIES AND CPITAL
CURE   L1A1LITIES
tAVIO     9BITS        *   .                   2625    13312    39441   116729   165    14780                    91453       79         5454        3602        1t
I NEREST PAYALE ON INS                         3633    1312      32617    69701   11655    173                   61042       75645      73          760         80176
CURENT PO1TION LOWS PAYABLE                                                          29        1415            .  5415        5415       5415       11246       16165
CURREI T PORTION O      PYALE                 49223    700       9        1270   112401   226700                293331      274521     61590       26407       334
COW551  PORTION P9IN FUNDS PAYABLE                               390       4767    3451    26O0                  39000       34757      30          50000       i000
OTER Ct         LIBILITIES                     Im       421    14060    30421   2M21    25624                    25824       254        264         25624       21624
TOTAL CURRET LIABILITIES                   1        100957   221267   36489  501008   6054                   53064       4831        61269       42         520256
LOU-TER LIABILITIES
SAVINGS DEOSITS                               10500    53247   1563   272367   249368   22170                   13717       109499      61618       54138       26456
MHOUSIN         S                            445674   604326   t01730    50361  106035  1119642                112664    1169736    12            130M257    1381496
62 ROUSINS BNlS                                                  607   165229   24          31636               342636     36763       396         41763       442636
NATIONAL NI051115 FUNl 801Q0S                                                                                   350000      350000                 3000        21W00
191B 09tt51                                                                                   75000
CIED  INilIEST-0t1    n0o                    1866     70647   126725   16762   167327   10631                  150493     2045        2606        1 4         2526
FEISIOI  FUNDS                                39000    01        M70312    51445       0      67                 62217       770        90            000       90W
NATIONAL P96lSCO    E WNE                                                                                                   200000     45UOOO      60         1350000
13O  LOAN 2216-                                                    74      64       44        92                 54148      4733        43316       37903       3248
131  LOA*-WFS PROJECT                                                                                            70000      129000     190         1167        112417
MTAL LWI-TEN LIABILITIES                  513666   0131     12741  161565  1026    1%7136                   29677    266            2 7         335041       621
CAPITAL
UWUET CONTRI6STIONS                                    39000        00 MO    00M   301           N              2300       433000         00       7 00       93O0
LOTTERY WITS                                  273      3750    53                   70032    81542               922        103542     133542      15           934
RomJS                                          1912      610   -2512    -W0        -111       132=              1123       23201       3701        52472      67051
TOTAL CAPITAL                              31647    77175   10412   1024    134665   2777                    41          7692       109603    1421271    IM05
TOTAL LIBILITIE  M    AITAL         n     60276    91321  155410   21113    2462         2                  3317662      915043    45965    5         t1   62737
LO ISIKI DEITIEIITT                          16.24    10.54    11.64    11.0t    1354         7.4                 4.70       3.46        2.46        2.37       2.20
UERBIT RATIO                                  0.62      2.36      2.16      1.10     0.4      0.37                0.29       0.3         0.30        0.38        0.53



- 30-                                          Annex 2 - Page 6
NNW1   FINA1E UCtoR PRECT
lTItOK    IEIO     FUN
ICE StATET3 1981-1"1
lua  mllion)
1981     12        93       18       lDS       1984           tllnt) 195f9ut)  Illnt)  I0(tl  lmlwut)
INTERET IROONE
MWlinS LOAN
RENtAL LOS-ALL UNITS                                                                                                               674       1730        3424
RENtAL LO-REBU                                      165      960     4326    10547    13514               12443      24674       37011      4876        60165
SALE LOS                                24357     970    7974   12170   181336   217n9                   271085                 318        354         418340
aimER (REFUMEE, RURL)                    2393     7307      6332     4671      4090     "16               19066       17495     IM9        20M7        22159
UTOtAL                                  26750    77442    8666   130747   M997    24109                     5       M726        375028     41074       5044
EIOS1TS IIITH lfN1, OIE                    2U    104         234      3S79      2299      6118              104         25279      3B642       MN          669
TOTL ITEREST JfIIE                    292      646   109714   171tO   21871   247137                  $13039     354         413670     45662       511166
SAVINS ACOWITS                           445     371      1039     22        226      33177              232     6  1644         254        9064        5373
41 11191101  /A                         21744    651    69987   103141   111146   108012                  91000       775        7932       9369        *154
82   I S  MONS                                               70      3597      6971     8192               9904       1O654      11404       12154      12904
P11  AIDS                                  60      37       6053     7462      412      64                 96         10676      1198        133        14000
130 LOAN 2216-0                                               52      145     2914      5085               492        4503        4074       364         3216
i3n  LONS FROJECT                                                                                          272        7611       10217      10217       9"6
ATIONL 11U151  FUnD 3019                                                                                  21000      4200O       42000      3000        36O
NATIOAL 9911011 SCENE                                                                                                 10000      32500      65000      110000
KNll DEPOSIT                                                                             554               350
GiEM  INTEREBT                              6       69      1201      469      1735    10371               1572       1729        1902       2092        1046
TOTAL INTE   EPElE                      225    72393   10996   136924   15945   17135                    148451     131241      206271     2 16        20679
TOTAL ORTINS PROFIT                      6049    15453      1319    3176      63026    75302             144587     IM65        20738      215         230507
UINTIFEREST EXMSE
AINISTRATION FEES 13                   50      16755    27046    41765    46096    43902                45441      52763      61719       72089       34719
NIlEt IICOIE                             1912    -1302   -25729               16930    31400       W        146     120         1456       1466        145
-   _ua  foa   _aa  _nsu  us.                                                  us -                 m_           ms
INTER   IhE FROI LN  AS
t OF  AVEMS LA    F       ID  3                6    11.         .       9.015    9.52    9.342                9.M        9.3U        9.11t      L.9         3.931
INTEES  EPE    AS S 0F
AEA   FU     106 N  SE (1)                 4.473    9.02    3.2        7.4n      6.622    6.4n               5.462      5o01        4.          .2U        4.362
INTEREST SPREAD (I)                           1.093    2.162    0.462    1.54       2.742    2.8                4.3        4.33        4.2        4.151       4.07
IElllN     EUITY m12                          6.04    -1.69   -24.411   -9.301   12.52   11.302                20.322     15.612      13.312     10.322       3.112
1/     INTE T EM      E AC       E        IIU  T PAID AT END 0F SEAlV  MM     BONDF .
1-    FEE NOU 01   Q E    LOAlORT  I0  2.21FRON 1931 T0 194, 1.7 2F     lW4 tO 1986, 1.U  fIi 1906 M S.



_ 31 _       Annex 3 - Page 1
OROE
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
Korea Housing Bank
Programs and Financial Statements
1.        The Korea Housing Bank was established in 1967 to increase
the amount of housing finance available and to improve access to
ownership. It is the most important housing finance institution,
providing about 45% of housing loans made in 1982-85. Nevertheless,
KHB is relatively small compared to demand, financing less than 5% of
the total value of housing transactions in 1983.   To deal with this
excess demand, Government has established a number of non-price
rationing procedures, including a low loan-to-value ratio (KHB loans
have averaged only about 30% of the price of housing purchased by its
borrowers since 1981), age and size limits on eligible housing (less
than five years and less than 30 py) and a limitation on borrower
eligibility (first-time buyers only).
2.        Government is the principal owner,  with 94% of the paid-in
capital of W 49 billion. The balance is spread evenly over a number
of commercial banks and insurance companies. KHB makes mortgage loans
to individual first-time home buyers, to contractors for working
capital requirements (about 5% of towal ..ending in 1986) and to small-
scale enterprises for building materia!.s production (less than 1% of
total lending in 1986). KHB's individual mortgage loan for housing
purchase is an adjustable rate instrument (the current initial rate is
11.5%) with a 20-year term, including one year grace. Working capital
and building materials production financing is provided at 11.5% for
3-5 years. In addition, KHB is permitted to have 20% of its loan
portfolio in short-term, commercial loans for non-housing purposes
(also at an interest rate of 11.5%).
3.       In general ,KHB has fulfilled its mandate very well and is a
well managed and consistently profitable institution. KHB has shown
steady growth in recent years, with total assets increasing at an
average annual rate of 20% and tripling during the period 1981-86. The
primary source of funds has been individual savings accounts, which
provided an average of about 85% of funds raised annually during the
period. Loan repayments, government capital contributions and
operating surpluses accounted for most of the balance. Loan recovery
performance is excellent, with problem loans (more than six months in
arrears) consistently less than 1% of portfolio. Profitability has
been adequate, although largely determined by the interest rates set
by Government for fund raising and lending. The average cost of funds
during the period 1981-86 was 9% and average interest income 11.3% for
an average spread of 2.3%, which was sufficient to cover
administrative costs, reserves and a modest dividend on subscribed
capital.



- 32 -         Annex 3 - Page 2
4.        Over the period of the Sixth Plan (1987-91), KHB is expected
to grow somewhat faster than the financial sector as a whole (15%
annual growth compared to 12% for the sector as a whole), with total
assets doubling (to W 7,164 billion) by the end of the period. A new
type of loan for site development will be offered at 11.5% for two
years beginning in 1987 and is expected to represent about 15% of
total loans made by 1991. The choice of lending instrument will be
enhanced in several other ways: a higher loan to value ratio, larger
loan amounts, mortgages for older homes and differential pricing of
various loan types. Fund raising will continue to rely to a great
extent on the mobilization of individual savings deposits (52% of
projected fund raising during the Sixth Plan) but market-rate
debentures are expected to provide about 15% of funds to be raised (up
from 4% during the Fifth Plan). Operating surpluses and capital
corftributions are expected to provide most of the remaining funds.
Debentures are a potentially important source of funds but will
necessarily be used sparingly by KHB in the current context of
controlled interest rates because of their cost (12.5% in 1986) in
relation to KHB's maximum lending rate (currently 11.5%). In the
course of liberalization of the financial sector over the next several
years, it is expected that KHB will continue to be treated as other
banks and that spreads will remain narrow but adequate.
5.        The most important challenge during the Sixth Plan will be
to position KHB to take its place in a liberalized financial sector as
a competitive institution. Part of this challenge will be to ensure
that KHB's current term transformation situation (financing long-term
assets with relativelv short-term liabilities--which is typical of
housing finance worldwide) does not present a problem in a liberalized
system involving competition for savings. KHB will need to have the
same ability to mobilize savings as other financial institutions. In
KHB's case, term transformation involves matching the maturities of
its main source of funds (savings deposits averaging about 5 years)
with the maturities of 80% of its assets (mortgage loans with 20-year
terms). The sixation is complicated by KHB's undercapitalization,
which is a common problem, in the commercial and financial sectors in
Korea. The long-term debt (long-term liabilities) to equity ratio has
averaged about 24:1 and the current ratio about 1.03 since 1981. KHB
and the Government recognize this problem. Access to borrowing from
the Central Bank will provide for any liquidity requirements. The
adjustable rate of the mortgage loan instrument reduces the interest
rate risk but otherwise KHB's ability to deal with the term
transformation is limited to prudent asset and liability management in
a continuing environment of Government control of interest rates and
funding instruments.
6.        In order to strengthen KHB's financial position, Government
plans to increase paid-in capital sixfold over the next 7-8 years
to W 300 billion. This is expected to reduce the debt/equity ratio to
about 20:1 by 1991, and to put KHB on an equal footing with other
commercial banks. As financial sector liberalization proceeds, it may
be necessary to increase capital further to maintain KHB's
competitiveness.   This could come from further government
contributions and from greater retained earnings resulting from



- 33 -
Annex 3 - Page 3
improved profitability if KHB management is given more autonomy in
setting lending terms. While Government's control of the financial
sector has constrained KHB, as it has other banks, the ameliorating
factor in Government's role in relation to KHB is its full backing of
the institution which reduces the risks associated with term
transformation and undercapitalization.
KHB LOAN CHARACTERISTICS
as of January 1, 1987
Interest       Repayment      % of 1986
TM$e                     Rate           Period           Lending
Individual mortgage        11.5%         20 years         83%
loan
Commercial loan            11.5%         20 years          6%
Savings-secured loan       11.5%          1 year           6%
Working capital loan       11.5%          3 years          4%
Building materials         11.5%        3-5 years          1%
production
100%



KOREA
IOUSING FINANCE SECTOt PROJECT
KOREA NOUSING SANK
SOURCES AND USES OF FUtDS: 1961-1991
(in mition won)
., .................................................................................................................................................................. .... ...................... .......................................
1981          1982           1983          1984          195            19S    1987(est) 1988(est) 1989(est) 1990(est) 1991(est)
......................................................................................................................................................
Sources:
Borroargs:
Savngs Deposits                                         221,096   546,914   710,747   225,648   157,363   420.275  360,000  414,000   478,170   551,808   636,787
Goverruent Lon                                               (594)    (3,781t))    44,797    (45,317)                                 i )          (147)         (129)          (11S)         (100)
ftwing DebwMAm                           ~(3,109)             (34)            (6)                                 149,962   90,000   103,500   119,543   137',952   275.740
sutotat                                           217,393   543,099   710,280   270,445   112,066   570,092  649,853  517371   597,598   683,660   912,601
Other Sources:
Loam Coltectifs                                           40,230    44.844    72.440    57.468    61,184    58,687    70,000    80,500    92,575   10t,46    122,430
Accrued interest an Savings Deposits   26,277    10,208                                 8,458          4,836   (14,042)  (93.501) (56,101)  (11,220)   13,478    16,174    19.48
Capital Contributions                                                     7,000         5,000    10,000    10,000    5000    10,005    20,000    20,000    20,000    20,000
Profit, Reserves                                          24,074          5,949         6,981   174,33              42,725    67,333   12,001   124,545   143,226   164,710   189,417
Other                                                     36,90S    25,832   134,596    18,962    51,494   (18,953)  41,100    45,703    52,559    60,442    69,509
Subtotal                                           127,486    93,833   227,477   265,603   151,361    18,566   177,000   259,528   321,838   367,788   420,76$
........... ................ ............   ........ ............   ........ ............   ........   ............   ........   --------.... ------
............................................................................................................................................. -----------................................................................... ..
Total Sources                                     344,879   636,932   937,757   536,048   263,427   588,658  626,853   776,899   919,436  ,OS7,448 1,333,365
. .... ...... ...................... I................................................... ......... .................. ........................ ................................................................. ............. ..
AppI ictions:
.. ..........
lndivdusl tortg   Loans                                 279,382   376,719   447,835   328,956   318,237  320,943   440,000   489,280   565,116   652,147   752,77 
Cntractor Vork ng Capitat Loans                           17,090    18,845    23,416    14,560    12,460    15,600    15,000    16,660    19,26S    22,232   25,656
wfilding Materiats Pro. ctian Loans                        1,100          2,600         2,80          2,715          2,516         1,T7O         5,000          5,560          622          7,411          8,SS2
Site Developent Loans                                                                                                                           10,000    11,120   27,                     69,500   139,000
Subtotat                                            297,572   398,164   474,091   346,231   333,213   338,253  470,000   S22,640   618,606   751,290   925,785
.. ... ........    ........   .... ...    ........   ........  ....... ..... ........   ........   . ...........   .... ....... 
Cwmercial Loans                                           16,621    29,658    60,622    33,221    47,719    24,63a   55,000    61,160    78,640    81 S,1                                                94,072
Saving-secured Loan                                        1,007         3,813    15,934    16,752    18,123    22,849    35,000    38,920    44,953    51875    59,864
Nationat Itnestment Fund                                  32,78         45,232    79,205    43,184   (46,747)   62,974    30,200    33,562    36,788    44,761    51,6S4
Fixed Assets, Others                                     69,596   127,931    91,780   148,953    19,553    30,780    76,800    85,402    98,639   113,928   131,587
Subtotal                                            120,008    206,634    247,541    242,110                   38,648       141,241       197,000    219.064           253,019    292,082    337,177
..... ....... .. ......... ................ ... .... ....... ....... ............. ........ ................ .... ...... ... .... ........ ............... ....... ........ ............ ........................ ....
Total Aplicatfons                                   417,580   604,798   721,632   588,341   371,861   479,494   667,000   741,704   87,625 1,043,372 1,262,962
,,,,,................,,,.................... ...,,........................... ... ....,,...... .................... ............................................ ,....................................................... 
Increase  (decrease)  in cash                               (72,701)    32,134           216,125        (52,293) (108,434)   109,16                (40,147)    35,195            47,811        14,076        70,403
in s cash                                                    182,229   109,528   141,662   357,787  305,494   197,060  306,224   266,077  301,272   349,083   363,159
Increg   decrease                                           172 701)  32. 34   216,125   (52,293) (108,434)  109,16   (40,147)  3519S    47,8tt   U4,076    70,403
closfng cash                                                 t09 528   141,662   357,78r  305,494   197,060   306,224   266,077    301,2m   349,0gS   36,1S9   *33,S61                                                                                :Z4



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .......................................... ........................... ........... ............. . i ............ .... ......  19 .-(e . .......t...... .......  
1981      1982       1983       1984       1985       1986    t987(est) 1988(est) 1989(est) t990test) IPPICest)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............. .......................... ................................ ....................................................... ----------------------------------------- .... ............... ............  .. 
Assets
Cirrent Assets
. .............
215,767   305,919   593,284
Operating Assets
L=ons                  dDe,               602,018   930,790 1 334       1                                2 ,  6l  2 2l 3   3 l9   2q      4 18      4
Alt           for        t Bad,9 Deb                  }1          79    1                     4e                   li4                   1 5}
t Loans  5~~~~~~~   ?~~~    ~~   '~~~~;u~~          ~       ?VI      2          2 2ff.4  3.j3*I
24,879    22,190
~~ ~4fl~~td  Company ~178,9M    1S:-                 'Z: I15I
?@it ,t3412' n ........i1, p r,3!5'4es4  ....................4.  33,931    53,949    89MI 
am i O" i1 I'aim ~2,05t*m 2,1   2,5    3                                  3,        4            ,          ,
Total Assets                               1,054,724 1,689,391 2,419,398 2,738,071 2,843,002 3,379,074 3,903,477 4,S38,614 5,291,559 6,111,996 7,163,984
. ........................ . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .       .....     ..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           ....... .
Liabilities
Current Liabiltities ........ 
Long-ter Liabilities
..................
l,                                            2.Z    l       l   1     7 5.                       214|7              R19          3,32,l   4,1fi42:
t Cf"e L'abihties                     I19888                  Ij
Capital                                      i~2        ,     ~      ~      20~~4 1                                                                        .
radinCptal2#                                                                      61~~3,  ~                                 1jj   10u     I
. . . . . . ..                                                              . .    .  . . .   -  - - -   .  . . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .    . . . .
gXteuStlai   Earn              rrised                                    
"   Sto           *r 0Z 9 3    65,2266   i'?6                                      6'       iot,87    123$1t  15i'67    193:M          22':6i    22
...........................
Total Liabilites and Capital               1,054.724 1,689,391 2,419, 398 2.738,071 2,843,0026 3,3  .074 3,03,477   4,538,6   5,2915    6,              7,16392
SrrenRaSP                  lt*g   4-fi7  3tT?   23}-34   q S    32 03   q 0    8 8    i4 i    ]3 g to     1 2    9  
                   @~~~1w



NSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
KOME UIPJIG SAK
I n"U STATEIENTS: 198-M99
(fn mittion won)
1981     1982     1963     964     963      1966   1987(est) 1988(est) 1989(est) 1990(est) 1991(est)
Interest lIncome                       187,672  166,331  190,4,85  243,136  275,255  316,543  364. n25  418,626  481,423  553,636  636,682
Interet on Loons                                      133,457  181,090  232,105  266,921  306,959  353,003  405,953  466,846  536,67
Interet anI Deposits                                   23,341   32.672   21,300   24,495   28,169   32,395   37,254   42,842   49,268
Interet on Securities                                  23,625   19,254   11.340   13,041   14,997   17,247   19,834   22,809   26,230
Other Interet Incme10,062   10,120   10,510   12,067   13,899   15,984   18.382   21,139   24,310
Interest Epense                       135,79.  138,562  164.743  207,885  216,436  248,901  266,237  329,1712  378,548  435,330  500,630
tnteret on Deposits                 107,256  124,653  148,294  192,600  200,495  230,569  265,155  304,928  350,667' 403,267  463,757
Interet on Sorrowinps                                  10,153   10,776   12,065   13,89    15,962   18,360   21,137   24,307   27,953
flterest an Debentures               27',135    6,857    5,948    3,831    1,468    1.688    1.941    2.233    2.568    ?,953    3,396
Otter Interet Expenses                1,403    7,052      348      678    2,388    2,746    3,158    3,632    4,177    4.803    5,524
Not Interet lroame                      51,878   27,769   25.742   35,251   58,819   67,642   77,788   89.456  102.675  118,306  136,052
Provision for Loan Losses                               3,274    3,312    6,560    7,544    8,676    9,977   11,473   13,195   15,174
Het Interest Income after Provision
for Loon Losses                     51,87    27,7169   22,468   31,939   S2,259   60,098   69,113   79,479   91,401  105,112  120,878
Nan-Ifnterest Income                    8,317   30.051   49,234   56,517   54,560   62,744   72.15S6   62.979   95.426  109,740  126,201
Fees andi Coimissions                 5,279   17,146   27,554   42,500   47,530   54,660   62,858   72,287   83,130   95,600  109,940
Lottery Project income                2.520    3:439    3.536    4,509    4,097    4,712    5,418    6.231    7,166    8,241    9,477
Other Non-Interest Incmem              518    9,466   8,144    9,508    2,933    3,373    3,879    4,461    5. 130    5,899    6,784
Non-interest Expense                    41,357   56,689   66,835   79,646   91,207  104,888  120,621  138,714  159,522  183,450  210,967
General, rd Administrative Expenses    38.104   52,383   63,469   75,819   87,898  101,083  116,245  133,682  153.734  176,794  203,313
Lottery Issuing Expense               2,520    3,439    2,330    2,826    2,420    2,78      3,200    3,681    4,233    4,867    5,596
Other Non- Interest Expense             73       867'   1,036    1,001      88      1,022    1,176    1,352    1,555    1,73       2,056
Income Before Taxes                     18,838    1,131    4,867    8,810   15,612   17,954   20,647   23,744   27,305   31,401   36,112
Apptlcabte Taxes                      2,62       481    3,601    5,449    6,863    7,89      9,0716  10,438   12,003   13,804   15,875
Income After Taxes                     16,015      650    1,266    3,361    8.749   10,061   11,571   13,306   15,302   17,597   20,237'
Dividends Paid                                                             1,78     3,070    4,544    5,225    6,009    6,910    7,947
meit rIncome                            16,015      650    1,266    3,361    6,961    6,991    7,027    8,081    9,293   10,687   12,290
Interest Income/Average Total Assets    16844%   12.123%   9.272%   9.429%   9.864%  10.175%   9.997%   9.9183   9.795X   9.710%   9.591%
Interest Expense/Average FI,-CI in Use  12.166X  10.099%   8.019%   3.062%   7.756%   8.001%   7.861%   7.798%   7.702      7.635%   7.542%
interest Spread                         4.673%    2.024%   1.253%   1.367%   2.108%   2.174%   2.136%   2.119%   2.093%   2.075%   2.050%
Retumn on Equity                        30.427X   1.100%   1.940%   4.239%   7.183%   6.489%    5.705%   5.293     4.800%    4.694%   4.657%



- 37 -
Annex 4 - Page 1
KOREA
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
National Housing Fund
Criteria for Subprolect Selection
Criteria are those in force as of March 1, 1987, and are subject to
change.
Eligible Developers
Central Government Ministries
Iocal Governments
Korea National Housing Corporation (KNHC)
Private Developers
-registered housing contractors
-registered housing cooperatives
-employers (more than 300 employees)
-special cases (e.g. solar housing)
Project Type and Size
Sale Housing
-minimum 10 units
Rental Housing
-minimum 5 units
-minimum 5 years as rental property
Cooperative Housing
-minimum 10 units
Housing for Displaced Households (designation by local government
required)
-typically replacement of single units lost to demolition or
disaster
Unit Size
Maximum Size
-60 sq m (18 py)--applies to all NHF-financed
developers and projects although lower limits can be
set for individual programs or developers; a unit mix
involving a range of sizes is also set for each
program so that the average unit size per project is
less than 18 py.



_ 38 -
Annex 4 - Page 2
Final Beneficiary Income and Housing Status
Sale Housing
-purchasers must demonstrate that they have not owned a
house for at least ^ne year
-for units less than 40 sq m (12 py) priority is
given to purchasers with incomes less than the regional
urban average income
Rental Housing
-tenants must demonstrate that they have rented shared
accommodation for at least one year
-for units less than 50 sq m (15 py) priority is
given to tenants with incomes less than the regional
urban average income
Cooperative Housing, Displaced Households
-no specific criteria apply
Developer Prolect Criteria
Central Government, Local Government , KNHC
-housing development programs are agreed annually with
14OC/HB and global criteria established for regional
distribution, project/unit size and composition, etc.
-individual projects are then processe-A by KHB subject only
to financial review
Private Developers
-private developers and their projects are evaluated by KHB
and rated according to a detailed points system
considering factors such as financial position and
financial and technical performance of the developer,
and financial and technical aspects of the proposed
project



- 39 -
Annex S - Page 1
K0I&
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDUL
(US$ Nillion)
.........., ....... .  ...................................................................... ..
Bank's  Year and  -- DISBURSEMENTS --   --- DISBURSEMENT PROFILE ----
Fiscal  Semester
Year    Ending  Semester Cumulative Project  Korea        Korea
(General)   (IDF)
.... .......... .... ....... .. . ................. . .... ....... ..    .....
1988   31-Dec-87    20.0      20.0    13.0%    2.0%        1.0%
30-Jun-88     5.0     25.0    17.0%    7.0%        9.0%
1989   31-Dec-88    14.0      39.0    26.0%   17.0%       26.0%
30-Jun-89    30.0     69.0    46.0%   31.0%       46.00
1990   31-Dec-89    31.5    100.5    67.0%   47.0%        67.0%
30-Jun-90    24.0    124.5    83.0%   62.0%       83.0%
1991   31-Dec-90    16.5    141.0    94.0%   74.0%        94.0%
31-Dec-90     9.0    150.0   100.0%   85.0%    100.0%
-- - - - - - - - -- -   - - -  .  - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -



- 40 -         Annex 6 - Page 1
KOREA
HOUS1NG FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.       The principal economic benefits of the project would be to
increase the efficiency of public expenditures in the housing sector
and to reduce the costs of financial intermediation to the sector.
Neither of these benefits is easily measured for the purposes of
conventional economic analysis. The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan
would be used to finance the construction and purchase of housing
which is, however, subject to quantifiable economic analysis.
2.       Reduced public expenditure in the housing sector translates
into economic benefits in several ways. First, a lower level of
expenditure to achieve a given outcome has the effect of reducing the
Government's competition for savings and resources thus indirectly
reducing both the tax burden and the price (interest rate) for savings
for private parties in the economy. Second, the private sector can
develop real estate using less resources. Third, the actual product
(housing types and locations) will be more in accord with what people
want.
3.        The value of more efficient financial intermediation for
home builders and buyers is also difficult to assess, a priori, but
there are some indirect measures. At present a considerable share of
investment in the housing sector is financed either from the
purchasers own savings or resources or from informal loans. The cost
of the latter is know to presently be about 5 percentage points higher
than formal bank lending rates. Presumably liberalization of the
financial system along with the appropriate reforms in housing finance
being implemented and developed under this project would also increase
the quantity of housing finance available, a major bottleneck to
buyers at present. The overall magnitude of economic return from the
full integration of housing finance in the financial sector would thus
be a combination of the value of increased quantity of financing and
the lower interest cost than current financing methods.
4.         The economic return to housing can be computed by
discounting the stream of benefits against the economic cost of
constructing the unit. For this purpose 1986 costs and rents have been
used for two stylized typical units which are averaged to approximate
the proposed program of NHF. The basic data is obtained from current
construction and land costs with taxes subtracted to obtain economic
costs and a recent survey of actual market rents conducted by the
Korea Research Institute for Human Settlements.



- 41 -
Annex 6 - Page 2
Table of Economic L'ata
Type A Unit Type B Unit
Cost of dwelling including land        W 15.9 mil.    W 12.7 mil.
Economic Cost (10  less for taxes)    W 14.3 mil.    W 11.4 mil.
Konthly Rent                          W 217,280      U 128,380
Internal Rate of Return                  17.5 S          12.2 %
Average IRR of NHF programs                 14.9%
Notes:
1.        Monthly rents have been computed by taking the key money
deposit which is returned in full to the tenant upon his vacating the
rental unit and applying the informal money market interest rate as
the opportunity cost (2% per month)
2.        The stream of rent payments (benefits) has been discounted
for 20 years.
3.        Sensitivity tests conducted for a 15% increase in costs, a
15% decrease in benefits and both events simultaneously yielded
IRR estimates of 12.5%, 12.1% and 9.9% ,respectively.



- 1AAmAnnex 7 - Page I
KOREA
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
Resource Mobilization and LAnding for Housing
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The housing finance system (HPS) of Korea is entering a
major transition period caused by significant changes internal to the
housing markets as well as the rapid evolution of the financial
system. While the central and immediate concern in the HPS is the need
to mobilize additional resources, the specific instruments and
financial management techniques which can minimize their cost and
reduce risk to the financial intermediaries need to be developed.
Moving toward a more efficient and responsive HFS also requires that
the types and characteristics of loans available are a reasonable
match with what is demanded by borrowers in the market. Good
mobilization/lending instrument design in the context of a
comprehensive business strategy for lenders is central to the
satisfaction of borrowers and the financial viability of lenders. The
latter will only be assured if housing finance institutions develop
the fundamental expertise to prosper in a competitive environment.
2.       Basic policy directions for the future of the HFS are clear
as developed in previous studies and enunciated in the Policy
Statement prepared for this project. This study takes that framework,
as given, and undertakes to evaluate specific operational options and
to prepare measures for implementation over the period of the Sixth
Plan. Since many of the measures likely to be proposed by this study
depend upon progress in liberalizing the overall financial system, the
recommendations must make clear the feasibility of various HFS
proposals under explicit assumptions about financial sector reform.
Obiectives
3.         The main objectives of this study are to answer the
following questions:
(a) how can the HFS efficiently mobilize the resources it needs
to meet the expected demand for mortgages,
(b) what types and characteristics of lending instruments will
be in demand by borrowers and viable from the lenders'
perspective, and
(c)  what changes in the overall financial system are necessary
to make the improvements to the HFS feasible.



- 43 -
Annex 7 - Page 2
General DesiFn and Organization
4.       The methodology for analysing both mobilization and lending
options will utilize a comprehensive framework which identifies and
evaluates the financial needs and constraints of all the relevant
participants in the market:
(a)  households as borrowers,
(b) households as depositors and savers,
(c)  lenders such as KHB, CNB and others,
(d)  long-term investors such as life insurance companies and
pension funds, and
(ej  government as regulator, guarantor and taxer.
The proposed framework recognizes that piecemeal changes to individual
financial instruments for the benefit of only one kind of market
participant may not bring about the expected improvements.
Resource Mobilization Options
5.       The section on mobilization is premised on the expectation
that the macroeconomic environment and the demand for more and better
housing services in the future will combine to increase the effective
demand for mortgage loans. In particular, the gradual development and
liberalization of the financial sector will provide new challenges and
opportunities for mobilizing resources for housing finance. The study
proposed is not a policy study for immediate regulatory decisions but
instead is intended to be a comparative examination of the options
available to mobilize the necessary resources. The effect of increased
efficiency in the  mobilization of resources for the HFS will be to
permit more loans, with more desired features, to be made available to
home buyers at lower cost because of better financial intermediation.
6.       Mobilization options include two broad categories. First is
the current main source, deposits composed of (i) general household
deposits, (ii) loan-linked deposits, and (iii) new deposit programs
such as one to attract chonsei. Second, non-deposit sources will be
examined including: (i) market-rate bonds, (ii) institutional
borrowing, and (iii) the sale of mortgages to investors.
7.       The evaluation should contain two types of results:
(a) an inventory of major possible sources for funding mortgages
should be made which includes mobilization techniques not
presently in use in Korea. These sources should be evaluated
in a manner which explicitly values the various
characteristics of each source and permits direct comparison
among them in terms of: (i) the cost, (ii) the maturity,
(iii) the likely volume available and (iv) other features
which may affect their appropriateness for financial
intermediaries such as the contingent liability to make a
future loan inherent in loan-linked deposits, and,
(b) the study should also develop alternative mobilization
strategies for different mortgage lenders and recommend the
best funding options for each lender. The study should not be



- 44 -
Annex 7 - Page 3
a pure economic or financial effort, it should evaluate the
initial administrative, legal and other steps required to
actually develop each source. The strategy must also contain
a projected timetable recommending when each source could be
used and a forecast of the likely market response. The study
also identify and recommend actions for the development of
the regulatory and supervisory system which would permit
mortgages to be traded in financial markets. In some cases
it may be necessary for the study team to evaluate manpower
training and the procedures needed to put in place the
necessary infrastructure of financial techniques and skills.
Mortgage Lending Options
8.         The low inflation in housing prices, increasingly
competitive financial assets available to households, and the
continued strong growth of incomes will increase the demand for
housing mortgages. However, the size and type of loans preferred is
likely to be quite divergent among t.yers of different income levels,
financial situations and desired housing unit types. It is essential
to evaluate the options among lending instruments and practices to
assure the ability of the financial institutions to grow and remain
viable. To expand from the present one-product, one-price system, a
number of issues must be addressed. This study will consider:
(a) the pricing of mortgage loans including an analysis of the:
(i) suitable base interest rate, (ii) cost of funds to the
lender, (iii) administrative costs of the intermediary, (iv)
interest rate risk and (v) default risk. In each case a
standard methodology will be applied to the Korean situation
to determine present levels of each of the above component
costs and likely future trends. Policies and practices to
reduce them will be suggested,
(b) asset/liability management procedures in order to permit the
lenders to oversee their business in a way that risks and
returns are appropriately balanced, and
(c) type of information needed to improve the quality of loan
underwriting and associated services such as appraisal of
present market value, inspection of housing units,
registration of debt instruments and others.
Organization of the Study
9.        The study will be conducted by experienced consultants on
contract to the Ministry of Construction(MOC). The Housing Policy
Division of HOC will direct the study and be responsiblu for all
substantive and administrative guidance to the consultants. An ad hoc
consultative committee will be established composed of representatives
of the Ministry of Finance, the Economic Planning Board, the Korea
Housing Bank and other possible lenders. The committee will be chaired
by the Director-General of the MOC Housing Bureau and composed of
Director level representatives of other ministries and institutions.



- 45 -
Annex 7 - Page 4
The committee will provide general guidance to the study team by
meeting a least four times to consider the (i) terms of reference for
the study, (ii) the inception report, (iii) the midterm report and
(iv) the draft final report.
Timetable and Reporting
10.        The study would take place over a period of 18 months.
After signing of the contract an inception report would be produced
within two months, a midterm report by the sixth month and the draft
final by the end of the twelfth month.
Level of Effort
11.      The study team would be composed of a team leader whose main
task for the year would be this project. The team leader would be
assisted by two additional senior level staff specialized in other
areas of study coverage. The team would also engage experienced
external members for a period of approximately three months to address
detailed issues of mortgage design and pricing. Inputs are estimated
at 35 man-months.



- 46 -
Annex 8 - Page 1
KOREA
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
Cost and Efficiency of Public Sector Housing Programs
Draft Terms of Reference
Background
1.        Korea currently employs a mix of housing programs, most of
which rely on incentives designed to encourage production of low and
middle income housing by the private sector, and to make this housing
affordable by target groups. Programs include private housing for
rental and for sale, financed by KHB and NHF; and public housing for
rental and for sale, produced by KNHC and local governments financed
by NHF.
2.         Since more than half of all households do not own the
dwelling in which they live in the major cities of Korea, the
Government has recently adopted several policies with the aim of
increasing the supply of low and moderate income rental housing.
Efficient implementation of these policies requires information on the
costs and incentives inherent in the new system. In particular, it is
important to understand the relative costs of rental housing whether
privately or publicly developed and formally or informally financed.
Policies affecting the operation of the rental market for the existing
stock need to be examined for consistency with the Government's
overall objectives of expanding and improving the supply of rental
housing, and improving access for low income households. Meeting
these objectives efficiently requires careful consideration of the
respective roles to be played by the public and private sector in
different segments of the market.
3.        Various government housing programs and policies have been
studied in the past, but in isolation.   This study will be
distinguished by t'ne application of a consistent cost-benefit
methodology to each major program, with the aim of making careful
comparisons of the relative cost and efficiency of each program. The
relatively new rental programs and the incentives offered to promote
rental housing will be a particular focus of this study. Such analysis
will assist the Government in making future decisions on the optimal
mix of programs as well as the most efficient way to execute them.
This information is particularly timely, as the government is
increasing the scope of several housing programs, and making important
changes in their design.
Objective
4.        The objective of this study is to undertake a review of the
efficiency and effectiveness of the current public sector housing
programs. The review will:



-47 -AmAnnex 8 - Page 2
(a) Identify and quantify the main products or outputs of each
of the major programs and measure the economic costs of
each;
(b) Estimate the financial cost of each program output and
explain the difference from economic costs in terms of the
contribution of various subsidies and policies;
(c) Examine whether there is a need to subsidize housing for
low-income families. Hake recommendations concerning the
appropriate size of subsidies, if any, and the preferred
mechanism for subsidization including alternatives to
existing interest rate subsidies;
(d) Compare the efficiency of public versus private delivery
systems for low income housing;
(e) Evaluate who is being served by each program;
(f) Investigate the institutional and management structure of
key programs in terms of efficiency and effectiveness; and
(g) Examine whether the various programs complement or inhibit
related private investment in the housing sector.
The results will be used to recommend changes or adjustments to both
specific programs as well as overall public policy objectives. Least
cost and least distorting methods to achieve agreed objectives will be
proposed. A by-product of the study will be the development of a
computer-based analytical model which can be operated on a regular
basis by the staff of policy-makers and program managers to assess the
functioning of existing policies or to test new proposals.
General Desixn and Organization
5.        The study will utilize two distinct methodological
approaches. All publicly supported housing programs will be subjected
to a net present value analysis which will permit monetary comparison
of most dimensions of the programs in a common framework. Additionally
selective programs, such as the current promotion of new rental units,
will be subject to analysis of management and institutional issues.
6.       The study will make specific recommendations on appropriate
actions in each area listed in paragraph 4 above. In order to do this
the consultant will, inter alia:
(a) Describe the current system of regulations and incentives
for each housing program, and for housing not in any
program. Major regulations and incentives include taxation,
finance, rent controls, provision of service land, and land
use regulations. Also assess how the regulations and
incentives are different for the various segments of the
housing market?   In particular,   are there marked
differences between the incentives given for newly



- 48 -         Annex 8 - Page 3
constructed units versus existing units, rental versus
owner-occupied, new rental versus existing rental and those
units developed by the private versus the public sector.
Do the participants value the benefits they receive
differently than the market ? Which income groups benefit
(directly and indirectly) from the present programs?
(b) Analyze the present value of each major category of
regulation/incentive. Compare these results across programs
and by category within programs. Are there gaps or
discontinuities in the structure of incentives? Is the
existing framework improving the supply of affordable
housing for all segments of the market? For example within
the rental market, does the impact of the incentives favor
short or long term supply of rental accommodation?   Are the
policy instruments being used the best choices in terms of
the effect on other parts of the economy such as the
financial sector.   When comparing within programs, analyze
under what conditions specific costs and incentives can
offset or reinforce one another.
(c)  Examine the characteristics of households which actually
participate in each of the programs, and compare these to
the population at large. Compare these outcomes to the
target groups of the programs.
(d)  What are the alternative institutional arrangements for
management of rental stock? In particular, what are the
costs and benefits of public versus private sector
management of the units? Should new forms of management
(e.g. cooperatives or local level nonprofit corporations)
be considered?
(e) Estimate potential costs and benefits of upgrading compared
to new construction as a strategy to improve housing
conditions expenditures.  Costs can be estimated using
actual construction cost estimates, but also incorporating
indirect costs such as finance, and of meeting regulatory
requirements, when applicable. Benefits can be estimated by
changes in market rents or values from upgrading.
Recommendations will be made for a specific design of a
program to encourage conservation and upgrading of the
existing rental stock.
Organization
7.        The study will be conducted by experienced consultants on
contract to the Ministry of Construction(MOC). 'ihe Housing Policy
Division of MOC will direct the study and be responsible for all
substantive and administrative guidance to the consultants. An ad hoc
consultative committee will be established composed representatives of
all ministries and institutions concerning with housing finance in
Korea including inter alia the Ministry of Finance, the Economic
Planning Board, the Korea Housing Bank and other possible lenders. The



- 49 -
Annex 8 - Page 4
committee will be chaired by the Director-General of the Housing
Bureau MOC and composed of Director level representatives of other
institutions. The committee will provide general guidance to the study
team by meeting a least four times to consider the (i) terms of
reference for the study, (il) the inception report, (iii) the midterm
report and (iv) the draft final report.
Timetable and Reporting
8.       The study would take place over a period of 18 months. After
signing of the contract an inception report would be produced within
two months, a midterm report by the sixth month and the draft final by
the end of the twelfth month.
Level of Effort
9.       The study team would be composed of a team leader whose main
task for the year would be this project. The team leader would be
assisted by two additional senior level staff w'hose training and
experience complement his in a manner to complete the necessary skills
to conduct the study. Total inputs are estimated at 36 man-months.



- 50 -
Annex 9
KORE&
HOUSING FINANCE SECTOR PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1. Korea Housing Bank, Annual Reports, 1981-1985.
2. Korea National Housing Corporation, Housini, 1986.
3. Korea Housing Bank, Statistics Yearbook of Banking Services, 1985.
4. MOC, Report of Closing Accounts of NHF 1981-85.
5. KNHC, Housing Construction Acceleration Law, May 1985.
6. EPB, Annual Report on Family Income and Expenditure Survey,1985.
7. Mission background paper, Housing Finance in Korea, December 1986.



MAP SECTION
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 20170
.   \              _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,                           .?        -9 ,                                     s.v.
I          _          DEMOCRATC  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC                    I \
C H I N A    i                                   OF KOREA                         -                              LN
'SqOPI.FS                                        , (  ,. I
'Rt9 I KOREA          I                        (                                                                         131
REP OF
K(ORFA    JAPAN      [anmuni;kv                                           KANGWON
-37-
1CH7>;tN<\ 
:1   ap p   tKYONGSA                   t           { jKYeNGBU
-36'                                   tgb!
{ ( CHOLLHOLLABf
<                           ~~~~REPUBLIC OF KOREA
Chnj
Primary Roads
-                                                        -'----.----.  Railroads                 3
34~~~~~~~~-~                                                                   - .-'--  Railroads Under Construction
s '                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
bo*_d                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+'    Airports
CD   Special CUitie
~~~sb-,   >  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ProJvince Boundaries
o**Sb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ihu nternational Boundries
-5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u City6 MLE
__j~~~~~~            g    /  )  DO ~~~~~~t7                    o2  2,0 , 0       0 ; o. 0     120,10  100
AUGiUST 19865



