Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2853 KO
                          Loan Agreement
                 (Housing Finance Sector Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 6, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2853 KO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated August 6, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated April 12,
1987, from the Borrower, including a policy statement and program of
actions and studies (hereinafter called the Policy Statement)
describing a program of actions designed to, improve the Borrower's
housing finance policies, and declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Policy Statement;
      (B)   the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the fea-
sibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction, or
any successor thereto;
      (b)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower, partly out of the proceeds of the Loan;
      (c)   "Sub-project" means a sub-project to be carried out
under the Project, and to be financed, in part, by a Sub-loan;
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (e)   "NHF" means the National Housing Fund of the Borrower,
a fund established pursuant to the Housing Construction Acceleration
Law of 1972, Law No. 2409, as amended on April 7, 1981, Law No.
3420;
      (f)   "Act" means the Housing Construction Acceleration Law of
1972, Law No. 2409, as amended to date; and
      (g)   "Guidelines" means the Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in May 1985.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty
million dollars ($150,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Korea Exchange
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half
Page  3
percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the
last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period.
      (b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
      (c)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period
                  commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06
                  of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
                  the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage
                  per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
MOC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of civil works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and the employment of
consultants to assist in the carrying out of the Project, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall approve the Sub-projects, and
make Sub-loans through NHF, in accordance with criteria agreed with
the Bank.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall review with the Bank annually
the progress achieved in the implementation of the Policy Statement.
The first such review shall take place not later than June 30, 1988.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for the
Bank's review and comments, any proposed changes to the Policy
Statement.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not
later than December 31, 1988, for the Bank's review and comments,
the results of each of the studies under Part B.1 of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures of NHF, including without limitation to the foregoing,
Page  4
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end
                  of each such year, the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditures furnished during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Policy Statement or a significant part thereof will be
carried out; and
      (b)   any of the Sections of the Act dealing with NHF shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the existence or operation of the
NHF.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
Page  5
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Republic of Korea
            Kwachon, Korea
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MOF                                 K 23243
                  Kwachon, Korea
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                       64145  (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                  By /s/ Sun Joun Yung
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
for amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the
Borrower for Sub-loans for civil work contracts, to meet 40% of NHF
expenditures for each such Sub-loan, in accordance with the
Page  6
provisions of this Agreement.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made: (i) for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) for
expenditures for civil works contracts costing at award the
equivalent of less than $500,000.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
expanding its housing finance system and increasing its
effectiveness in improving housing conditions in Korea, especially
for the low-income population.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A
      Provision of Sub-loans for construction finance, to be
converted into long-term mortgage loans, for approximately: (i)
135,000 units to be developed by public sector agencies; and (ii)
75,000 units to be developed by private developers.
Part B
1.    Provision of consultants' services for assisting in carrying
out studies on:
      (a)   resource rehabilitation and lending for housing; and
      (b)   cost and efficiency of public housing programs.
2.    Provision of local and overseas training.
                           *   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
      beginning March 15, 1991            6,250,000
      through September 15, 2002
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                       Premium of Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section
3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
Page  7
                                          The interest rate
                                          (expressed as a
                                          percentage per annum)
                                          applicable to the
                                          balance outstanding on
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:
Not more than three years                 0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                 0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                   0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                 1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Works
Part A.     Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works under Part A (i) of the Project may
be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Civil works under Part A (ii) of the Project may be carried
out by private builders selected in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part B.     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)    With respect to each civil works contract under Part
A.1 above costing the equivalent of $8 million or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix I
to the Guidelines shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has
Page  8
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B.1 of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of works and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
      (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account in the respective
equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and
other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that
such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when either of the following situations first arises:
            (i)   the Bank shall have determined that all further
                  withdrawals should be made directly by the Bor-
                  rower from the Loan Account in accordance with
Page  9
                  the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
                  of this Agreement; or
            (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus
                  the amount of any outstanding special commitment
                  entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
                  of the General Conditions with respect to the
                  Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
                  twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
