Documenatof
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
Repoit No. f4125-M
a
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt180 MILLION
TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 28, 1985
This dcuanet h a raddcted dltbud_ mad may be wed by reipknts idy i the perfomiace d
t,dr .add im   In emsm's may mme lmir  be dIdEsed widtot Wor ld k 11 orhtieu



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex $)
On March 31, 1985, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$ = Mex$208.79; the freemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 = Mex$226.85.
Both exchange rates are currently sliding at a rate of fex $0.21 per day
against the US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)             =   10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km2)          =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)  =   0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                =   0.26 gallons
1 cubic meter (m3)         =   35 cubic feet
1,000 kg. = 1 metric ton  =   0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF         -   Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
BANRURAL    -   National Rural Credit Bank
CECADE      -   Economic Development Training Center
CONASUPO    -   National Marketing Corporation
EDI         -   Economic Development Institute
FEFA        -   Special Agricultural Credit Trust Fund
FEGA        -   Technical Assistance and Loan Guarantee Trust Fund
FICORCA     -   Fideicomiso para la Cobertura de Riesgos Cambiarios
FIDEC       -   Trust Fund for Marketing Development
FIRA        -   Agricultural Trust Funds in Bank of Mexico
FONDO       -   Trust Fund for Crop, Livestock and Poultry Credit
FONEL       -   Industrial Equipment Fund
GIRA        -   General Interest Rate Agreement
ICB         -   International Competitive Bidding
IDB         -   Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD        -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC         -   Internatlonal Finance Corporation
IMF         -   International Monetary Fund
NAFINSA     -   Nacional Financiera, S.A
NDP         -   National Development Plan
SAM         -   Mexican Food Program
SARH        -   Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SHCP             Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
(Hacienda) -
SOE         -   Statement of Expenditure



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:         United Mexican-States
Beneficiary:       Agricultural Trust Funds in the Bank of Mexico (FIRA)
Amount:            US$180 million equivalent.
Terms:             Fifteen years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:   Funds would be provided to FIRA as equity.  The proceeds
would be relent by FIRA on terms and conditions that vary
with the income level of the beneficiaries and purposes of
the subloans, as specified in the General Interest Rate
Agreement.
Project
Description:     The project is a credit program which would seek to raise
agricultural productivity with a view to increasing food
production, agricultural exports, and real farm income.
It would assist to improve agricultural policies through
the reduction of interest rate subsidies. The low-income
producers' component would comprise about one-half of the
total investment program. About 62,000 families or
350,000 beneficiaries would benefit from the project.
Project Risks:     Since FIRA is a reasonably efficient and mature
institution, the project presents no special risk in terms
of the technical and financial soundness of varlous
investment opportunities that would be financed under the
program. The main risk would be that political pressures
would impede progress in eliminating interest rate
subsidies, especially in the case of a resurgence of
inflation causing a further deterioration of FIRA's
financial position, a continued drain on Government budget
resources, and a continued misallocation of production
factors.
liT document ha a resuicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official duti Its contents may not othewi be disclosed without Workd Dank authoriaion.



- ii-
Estimated Cost:
Local   Foreign   Total
US$ million --
Investment Program
Low-income producers                                                                   3
crops, livestock and agroindustries             141        90      231
Medium-income producers
crops, livestock and agroindustries             125        80      205
Other producers
crops, livestock and agroindustries             27         10       37
293       180      473
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
US$ million
Beneficiaries                           71                 71
Participating Banks                     71                 71
FIRA                                   151                151
Bank                                     -        180     180
TOTAL                            293       180      473
Disbursements:    Loan proceeds will be disbursed in:
Bank Ft   1986       1987
-US$million-
Annual            150         30
Cumulative        150       180
Economic Rate
of Return:            Economic Rates of Return for subloan investments range
from 18X to 35Z. . -
Appraisal Report:       None



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
l.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States for the equivalent of US$180 million to help finance an Agricultural
Credit Project to be carried out by the Agricultural Trust Funds (FIRA). The
proposed loan is to provide interim financing for FIRA from the closing of
the ongoing Eighth Agricultural Credit Project until preparation and
commencement of a new and broader agricultural credit project. The loan would
be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. Final beneficiaries would pay interest rates floating with
the ACF index (average cost of funds to multipurpose banks) as specified in
the draft General Interest Rate Agreement which is being distributed together
with the project documents. The Government would repay the Bank loan through
NAFINSA and bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.     An economic report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments
and Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May
14, 1984. The report's main conclusions and recent economic developments are
summarized below.
3.     Following an import-substitution growth strategy, Mexico experienced
some two decades of high and stable growth after the early 1950s. By the
late 1960s, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the 'easy' and efficient
possibilities for import substitution, and faced a choice between
outward-oriented growth or continued inward-directed growth led by expansion
of public sector expenditures and rising-subsidies and protection of
inefficient domestic production. By 1972, the choice was made to pursue the
latter course. Public sector expenditures as a percent of GDP more than
doubled between 1970 and 1982, from 18.8% to 42.5% (Report No. 4996-ME,
p. 114). By 1976, Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic
crisis, followed by an even more serious one six years later. The discovery
of large oil reserves in the mid-1970s led Mexico to a quick economic
recovery, but it also removed the urgency of policy reforms. Primary among
these was the need to reduce protection and the anti-export bias of the trade
regime to thereby move over time toward greater efficiency and international
competitiveness. Oil revenues also temporarily helped finance the public
sector deficit and reduced the need for greater fiscal restraint.



-2-
Developments during 1977-1982
4.     The stabilization measures initiated in 1977 and the discovery and
exploitation of large oil resources in the mid-1970s allowed the Lopez
Portillo Administration (January 1977-December 1982) to overcome the serious
financial crisis of 1976 and to start working on structural, social, and
economic problems, including poverty, income and wealth inequality,
unemployment, regional imbalances, and relatively slow agricultural growth.
In the early years of that Administration (1978-80), GDP growth was high
(8.5Z a year), 2.5 million jobs were created, domestic consumption recovered,
and the share of investment and savings in GDP surpassed historical levels;
but the economy became increasingly overheated.
5.     Rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenues led to
increasing public deficits. While inflation rose, no significant pressure
was felt to adjust the exchange rate, thanks to the oil earnings and the
relative ease of obtaining foreign finance. By mid-1981, the economic
situation began to mirror the scene prevailing before the 1976 financial
crisis. The current account deficit of the balance of payments reached 5.2%
of GDP, while the deteriorating international oil market conditions caused
large revenue shortfalls with respect to budget expectations. The public
sector deficit rose to just under 15% of GDP. Non-oil exports dropped, and
the trade deficit reached record levels. External borrowing was used to
finance part of the domestic fiscal deficit and to defend the exchange rate.
Mexico's foreign debt increased rapidly, at a time of high and rising
international interest rates. A stabilization program initiated by the
Government in mid-1981 was not sufficient to redress the growing fiscal
imbalance, the high cost of foreign loans, and the increasing private capital
flight fueled by the public's anxiety over Mexico's financial troubles.
6.     The crisis came to a head in 1982.  In February, as capital flight
intensified, the Bank of Mexico had to stop supporting the peso, which then
experienced a 40% devaluation in US dollar terms. A large wage adjustment
granted in March 1982, which tended to undo the effects of the devaluation,
and continuing slack in the oil market kept the balance of payments under
strain.  Under the circumstances, the international banking community became
reluctant to commit new funds to Mexico in the amounts required. These
factors led to a second devaluation of 35% in August 1982, while the acute
shortage of foreign exchange forced the Government to suspend the
amortization payments of most of Mexico's external public debt, pending a
broader agreement on its refinancing. Capital flight continued as private
sector confidence was shaken by the nationalization of the banks in September
1982, and the mandatory conversion of US dollar deposits into pesos. Also
put 'lnto effect were a generalized system of exchange controls and
quantitative trade restrictions covering an unprecedented 100% of Imports.
Recent Developments
7.     The Administration of President de la Madrid, that began its term in
December 1982, lost no time in taking steps to recover domestic and external
confidence, and stabilize the public sector and external finances. The
Government's stabilization program, supported by an EFF agreement approved by



-3-
the IMF in December 1982, laid the basis for restoring economic stability and
for the renegotiation of that part of Mexico's public external debt on which
amortization payments had been discontinued in August 1982. Commercial banks
agreed to restructure some US$19 billion of public sector debt and provide
*         US$5 billion in net new loans for 1983.  All obligations falling due between
August 23, 1982 and December 31, 1984 were restructured over an eight-year
period starting from January 1983, with a grace period of four years and at
*        an interest rate of 1-7/8 percentage points over LIBOR (or 1-3/4 over the New
York prime rate). The US$5 billion syndication had a 6-year maturity, with a
3-year grace period, at a spread of 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime). The
restructuring exercise included an understanding that the international banks
would maintain their exposure to the Mexican banks that had been
nationalized. At the same time, it provided a mechanism that would eliminate
1982 private sector interest arrears and facilitate payment of the
rescheduled principal on such debt.
8.     A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a controlled
market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except those of
in-bond industries) and debt related transactions, and a free market for all
other transactions including those relating to tourism. The controlled rate
was originally set at MexS95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 35% in relation
to the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar. The free
market rate had remained at about Mex$150 per dollar until September 1983,
when the authorities decided to let it slide as much as the controlled rate.
The differential between the two rates, which in December 1982 stood close to
60%, is now down to less than 10%. Over the past two years, the peso has
gradually appreciated in real terms as inflation in Mexico remained high.
The Government increased the rate of slide of the peso from 13 centavos a day
to 17 centavos in December 1984, and to 21 centavos early March 1985, in
order to bring it closer to the expected inflation differential between
Mexico and its trading partners. Domestic deposit interest rates have also
been raised since early March 1985 from an average of about 45% to nearly
54% by May.
9.     Under the IMF Agreement, the Administration committed itself to a
drastic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 18.0% of GDP in 1982 to
8.5% in 1983, 5.5% in 1984, and 3.5Z in 1985. Substantial progress has been
made during the past two years in meeting the program objectives, although
the targets for 1984 were not fully met. The public finances were
strengthened considerably and the public sector deficit was reduced to 8.7%
of GDP in 1983 and an estimated 7.4% in 1984. The main reason for the higher
budget deficit than the 1984 target was the much higher than expected
interest payments on the domestic debt. Curbs on expenditures were wide
ranging. The authorities have given priority to completing projects that were
already far advanced and to those that were important for employment, equity,
or foreign exchange earnings. Nonetheless, public investment expenditures
are estimated to have declined to about 7% of GDP in 19B3-84, well below the
1982 level of 11.7%. The fiscal performance was also aided by significant
price increases for nearly all public goods and services, including petroleum
products, electricity rates, food, etc. The Government has committed itself
to a substantial reduction and eventual elimination of most subsidies,
including those provided in the form of low interest rates.



- 4 -
10.    The balance of payments experienced a major turnaround in 1983 with
the current acoount moving from a deficit of almost US$5 billion in 1982 to a
surplus of US$5.5 billion. The strength of the current account and the
availability of external finance permitted Mexico to replenish its
international reserves while paying the arrears accumulated in 1982. The net
use of foreign financing by the public sector was US$4.2 billion for the
year-below the ceiling of US$5 billion under the stabilization program. The
swing in the current account was mainly the result of a very sharp
contraction of merchandise imports, to US$7.7 billion, representing a decline
of about US$7 billion from their 1982 level. The recession, the large
devaluation of the peso, and the quantitative restrictions, all contributed
to this. The balance of payments remained strong in 1984, with a current
account surplus of US$3.7 billion; and a further US$2.5 billion were added to
the nation's foreign exchange reserves, which at the year's end are estimated
at about 7-1/2 months of imports. Although imports recovered considerably, a
rapid rise in non-oil exports, particularly in the first quarter of 1984,
ensured that the trade surplus remained at the same level as in 1983, i.e.,
about US$13 billion. Growth in tourism and in-bond industry was also strong,
and helped in alleviating unemployment.
11.    Fighting inflation remains the pivot of the Government's stabilization
program. Although the Government's own inflationary targets have been missed
by wide margins, the rate of inflation continued to decline through
mid-1984. It declined from a rate of about 100% in 1982, to 80% and 59% in
1983 and 1984, respectively. The main factors in this were restrained fiscal
and monetary policies and moderate wage adjustments. The flow of savings
into the banking system continued to rise, reflecting the beneficial
influence of the exchange rate and interest rate policies. The impact of the
severe and sudden cuts in public expenditure and imports on economic growth
in 1983 was serious when GDP declined by over 5%. However, the economic
recovery in 1984 was stronger than the Government's expectations: GDP is
estimated to have risen by about 3.5%, compared to the earlier estimate of
only 1%.
12.       The Government also took steps to regain the confidence of both
domestic and foreign private investors.  These included efforts to deal with
the problems of private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of
nationalized banks, and a more flexible application of the foreign investment
law. Private sector debts totalling approximately US$12 billion have been
registared under a special Central Bank restructuring facility (FICORCA) at
stretched out maturities varying between 6 and 12 years, with 3- to 4-year
grace periods. Moreover, the Government undertook the restructuring of
Mexican private sector obligations guaranteed by official credit agencies
abroad. The Government has also transferred back to private ownership most
of the 400 private firms that were controlled by the commercial banks prior
to their nationalization. These measures and announcements have been
beneficial, but more remains to be done to restore the confidence of Mexican
entrepreneurs and foreign investors. The Government realizes that this is an
issue of the greatest importance, as economic recovery beyond the current
stabilization period will depend critically on the resumption of vigorous
private investment.



13.    The general improvement in the Mexican economy up to mid-1984 was
widely noted, particularly by the international banking community. Mainly
for this reason, the Government's 1984 borrowing of US$3.8 billion from
commercial banks carried much more favorable terms than the borrowing in 1983
(10 year maturity, 5-3/4 year grace period, and a spread of 1-1/2 over LIBOR
or 1-1/8% over prime). The negotiations between the Government and foreign
commercial banks on the rescheduling of foreign debt have been virtually
completed. The draft agreement, covering close to US$50 billion, has been
submitted by the Banks' Advisory Group (consisting of the 13 largest lenders)
to some 500 smaller regional banks for their acceptance. Under the proposed
terms, the previously unrescheduled debt (amounting to about US$20 billion),
which is due for repayment in 1985-90, will have its maturities stretched
over 14 years. The maturities of the previously rescheduled debt coming due
in 1987-90 will be stretched over 11 years. The 1983 syndicate loan of US$5
billion will be restructured, after prepayment of US$1 billion, to carry
terms identical to the 1984 syndicate loan. In summary, the pending
rescheduling agreement will stretch maturities of US$48 billion public debt
in such a way that the debt service remains virtually constant between
1985-1998, in contrast to the present situation, where 75% of the debt
service is due in 1986-89. The banks will have the choice of LIBOR, a
domestic reference rate, or a fixed rate. These terms are based on the
understanding that the Government will continue to adhere to prudent economic
policies. The rescheduling agreement covering US$29 billion of Government
debt was signed on March 29, 1985. This followed the approval on March 25 by
the IMF of a third-year Extended Fund Facility. The balance of US$19 billion
in loans to Mexican Government agencies is expected to be signed soon.
Recent Policy Measures
14.       Mexico has experienced some deterioration in its economic
performance since late 1984, with signs of domestic overheating of the
economy and 4eclining non-oil exports. In response, the Government has,
during recent months, taken a series of corrective measures, and will have
to take further measures during the remainder of 1985. In the last quarter
of 1984, public sector expenditures rose in excess of the target of the EFF
program. Consequently, the 1985 budget, which had been approved by Congress
in late 1984, with a deficit of 5.1% of projected GDP, was cut in February
and May 1985 to 4% of GDP, and a contingency reserve of 0.5% was dropped. In
March 1985, the Government announced a program to reduce import licensing to
cover 55-65% of total imports, as compared to 100% in 1983. As mentioned in
para. 8, the exchange rate crawl was also twice adjusted, in December 1984,
and again in March 1985, to stem the loss of competitiveness of Mexican
exports.
Medium-Term Prospects
15.    The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development
Plan (NDP) for 1983-88, combines special efforts to recover from the present
crisis with a longer-term perspective on iegaining balanced and stable growth
to overcome structural problems. The main problems facing Mexico in the
years ahead include the still very high rate of population growth (2.6%
estimated for 1983) together with an even higher rate of labor force growth



(a little under 4%), slow growth in agriculture, poverty, a highly skewed
interpersonal and interregional income distribution, and an overly
oil-dependent economy with a strong anti-export bias.
16.    The medium-term strategy presented in the NDP focuses on the need for
structural changes in the economy, including a greater export orientation
through revision of external trade policies, poverty alleviation through
basic needs policies and improvement in labor absorption, and
decentralization of economic activity. The basic elements of policies to
address structural problems are mentioned in the NDP, and further details on
specific programs and schedules for policy adjustments are provided in the
sectoral plans which were prepared subsequently.
17.    Mexico's mediumrterm prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
are reasonably good, provided economic management continues to be prudent,
private sector confidence is restored, and the international environment
remains favorable. Adequate domestic policies include inter alia continued
efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit, liberalize trade, minimize price
distortions, and maintain a competitive exchange rate. With regard to the
latter, there is some concern that the continuing higher than projected
domestic inflation rate, and the slow progress of the Government's trade
liberalization program, have hurt Mexico's non-oil export performance.
Restoration of private sector confidence is crucial, since only a strong and
dynamic private sector will be able to raise investment from the present
depressed levels and to supply the increasing non-oil export surplus required
for the resumption of growth. As regards the external environment, the
commercial banks are expected to maintain their exposure in Mexico in real
terms, and foreign markets, to be open to Mexico's non-oil exports. If
interest rates on world financial markets continue their downward trend,
Mexico will benefit substantially, while she will lose export revenue if oil
prices continue to decline. A one percentage point drop means a savings of
about USS800 million in overall interest payments, which compares to a loss
of US$550 million in gross export revenues that would result from a one
dollar drop in the export price of oil.
18.    Under reasonably favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's
economic growth could reach a sustainable 6% a year-the post-WWII average
for Mexico--towards the late 1980s. This growth would materialize through a
sustained redirection of the economy toward a more outward-oriented growth
pattern. Fiscal discipline, in the absence of improved domestic efficiency
and export development, would likely entail a prolonged period of slow
growth, characterized by insufficient labor absorption in internationally
competitive activities, domestic price distortions, and a continued need for
subsidies.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.    Mexico's external public debt increased by about US$4 billion during
1983, and by about half as much in 1984. With an expected net new borrowing
of some US$2 to US$4 billion a year, and assuming that the Government
implements policy adjustments, as needed, particularly in the area of trade
policy, the ratio of external debt to GDP should decline steadily from 41% in
1984, to 33% by 1990. The debt service ratio, after the proposed



- 7 -
rescheduling, is projected to peak at 47% in 1988; thereafter, it gradually
declines to about 25% in 1995.
20.    At the end of 1983, the last year for which a comprehensive external
debt report is available at this time, the Bank's share in Mexico's debt was
4.3% (excluding undisbursed). The Bank's share in Mexico's total public
external debt service payments during that year was 4%. In view of the good
mediumr- and long-term potential of its economy and the prospect of continued
pursuit of sound economic policies by the present Administration, Mexico is
considered creditworthy for IBRD borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
21.    As of March 31, 1985, Mexico had received 85 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$6,831.3 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 58 loans totalling US$3,495.2 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$5,465.6 million, of which US$1,948.9 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 42% of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural
development, 23% for industry, 11% for power, and 13% for transportation; the
remaining 11% has been for water supply, tourism, urban development,
vocational training and pollution control projects. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1985.
22.    Of the US$6.83 billion total lending, about US$3.5 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal
of investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and mediumrscale
industrial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plans,
rather than credit granted on the basis of collateral.
23.    The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978 to
1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented
satisfactorily until mid-1982, and disbursements rose from US$91 million in
FY78, to USS448 million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is
again causing delays in the provision of counterpart funds; consequently,
disbursements in FY83 declined to US$389 million. A Special Action Program
was established in early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the
counterpart funding constraints on development projects, and 18 Bank-financed
projects are receiving support under the Program. Partly as a result of the
SAP, disbursements during 1984 improved significantly at US$528.87 million or
35% over disbursements in 1983.



-8-
IFC Operations
24.    As of March 31, 1985, IFC had made investment commitments in 27
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$753.9 million, of which US$562.5
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.  A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the
Bank in preparing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign
exchange financing to private sector companies, for the importation of
machinery, equipment and spare parts required for production of exportable
products, for efficient import substitution, and for improvements in the
utilization of their existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100
million facility (including funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in
1983, which is providing finance for fixed investments of a larger size than
those assisted under the Bank loan for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
25.    Prior to the 1982 crisis, the Bank's major objectives in Mexico were
to : (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; {b) help finance projects that, directly or
indirectly, contributed significantly to output and employment; (c) help
reduce Mexico's urban/regional imbalances; and Cd) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. These continue to be important objectives of
Bank assistance to Mexico. More recently, however, in response to Mexico's
requirements following the 1982 economic crisis, the Bank, in close
cooperation with the IMF, has attempted to broaden its support for the
Government's stabilization and recovery program through assistance for
effective export promotion and intensified and broadened economic and sector
work. As for the future, the volume and composition of Bank lending to
Mexico will be related to progress in the implementation of policy reforms
needed for structural economic adjustments.  Specific policy reforms that are
being pursued through a dialogue with the Government, conducted in parallel
with the processing of lending operations, cover priority macroeconomic and
cross-sectoral issues, such as trade policy and export development, interest
rate policy, public sector pricing and investment, and subsidy reduction.
26.    Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population
living in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector
for its lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four
goals: first, to help increase productivity of presently cultivated lands in
general; second, to give emphasis to improving the productivity of small
farmers; third, to complement infrastructure investments with support
services, such as extension, marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to
promote employment-generating investments in rural areas. The Bank has made
14 loans in FYs78-83 totalling US$1,829.4 million for irrigation, rural
development and agricultural, agro-industrial and livestock credit programs.
A US$175 million loan for a rjral development project and a US$180 million
loan for an irrigation rehabilitation project were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY82, and a US$138.4 million loan for San Fernando rainfed
agricultural development was approved in early FY83. A US$115 million loan
for marketing perishables was approved by the Executive Directors in April
1983, and a $300 million Eighth Agricultural Credit Project in June 1984. A



-9-
US$90 million loan for a Chiapas Agricultural Development Project, together
with a Chiapas Rural Roads Project, was approved by the Executive Directors
on April 30, 1985. Projects for tropical agriculture, irrigation
rehabilitation, extension and research, seed multiplication, forestry,
agroindustries, and agricultural credit are in various stages of preparation.
27.    Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reductiou of the balance
of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the
major, increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting greater
employment.  A steel project, which the Bank helped structure and finance, is
now operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the West coast of
Mexico, and the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing
into a new growth pole. Four loans for industrial projects-to promote the
development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises, to finance
expansion of small- and medium scale mining, and to support an industrial
equipment fund (FONEI)--were approved by the Executive Directors in
FYs78-80. A US$90.0 million loan for a vocational training project, which is
assisting a program to increase the supply of skilled workers and
technicians, a US$152.3 million loan for the development of a capital goods
industries project, and a US$60 million loan for pollution control were
approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. A modification in the capital
goods project was approved by the Executive Directors in early 1983, to set
up a pilot export development fund to help satisfy the foreign exchange needs
of Mexican exporters. A US$350 million loan for an Export Development
Project and a US$175 million loan for a Third Small- and Mediumr-Scale
Industry Development Project were approved by the Executive Directors in
FY83. A US$105 million second small- and medium-scale mining development
project was presented to the Executive Directors on May 21, 1985, and a
second technical training project, on May 28, 1985. In response to the
current needs of the industrial sector, several projects to support non-oil
export development, acquisition of modern technologies, financial
restructuring of enterprises and industrial recovery and growth are in
various stages of identification and preparation.
28.    Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies. In
transport, two highway sector projects (FY79 and FY84), an industrial ports
project (FY84) and a recently approved railways sector loan support
rationalization of public investment outlays and pricing policies, and
improvement of the finances of the implementing sector agencies. Additional
projects to support these goals are under consideration. In urban
infrastructure, the first and second medium-size cities water supply and
sewerage projects (FY76 and FY81) reinforce the planning, management and
finance of specialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal
and municipal levels, and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more
closely related to costs; a third project was approved by the Executive
Directors on May 17, 1983. Projects for solid waste disposal, small cities
water supply, urban transport, and municipal strengthening, which are in
various stages of preparation, would further support these objectives in
respective subsectors, while assisting the Government in its decentralization
efforts.



- 10 -
29.    The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A
project to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas urban area was
approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project for
oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in
FY81. A loan for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the Mexico
City Region was approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982. A
low-income housing project is in advanced stage of preparation.
30.    The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE ("Centro
de Capacitacion de Desarrollo Economico" under the Secretariat of Programming
and Budgeting) in training Government staff in project preparation,
monitoring, and evaluation. EDI assistance is directed at courses on urban
and regional development, agriculture, rural development and
agro-industries. The Bank has also assisted the Mexican authorities in
training personnel for managing water supply and industrial credit projects.
31.    The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest source
of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico totalling
US$3.4 billion as of March 31, 1985. Over 50X of the total has gone to
agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure,
education, municipal development, and pre-investment. The IDB and the Bank
have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans
for the national integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural
and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and
hotel development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural
development project in the state of Oaxaca, which was appraised by the Bank's
staff and for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for
administering the loan.
32.    Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer, and tourism projects in
Mexico have been cofinanced by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks. In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from
commercial banks to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted
projects where project specific cofinancing would have been difficult.
PART III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
33.       Mexico's agricultural sector contributes about 10% of the gross
domestic product, employs about one-third of the country's active labor force
and contributes about 6Z to the country's exports. Between 1945 and 1955,
annual agricultural production growth rates averaged about 6%, but declined
to about 4.4% between 1955 and 1965, and to less than 3% between 1965 and
1980. During the latter period, production increases from newly irrigated
land slowed down and agricultural terms of trade gradually worsened.
Agricultural production again increased in both 1980 and 1981 at an annual



- 11 -
rate of about 6.5%. The increase was the combined result of favorable
weather conditions, higher farm-gate prices and large input subsidies under
the Government-sponsored Mexican Food Program (SAM). In 1982, when prices
lagged behind the high inflation rate of that year, the value of production
experienced a 0.4% negative growth rate. However, the economic sltuation has
since improved, and the real value of production has increased by about 2.62
per annum for the years 1983 and 1984.
34.       The reduced agricultural production growth before 1981, coupled
with increasing internal demand, resulted in increased food imports and
deterioration in the agricultural trade balance. In 1979 the country
experienced its first agricultural trade deficit, and in 1981 the deficit was
over US$1 billion. However, since 1982 the agricultural trade deficit has
decreased primarily due to reduced imports influenced by substantial
devaluations. Since 1970, corn, wheat, soybeans, sorghum, and powdered milk
have been the principal food imports, representing about 7.6% of total
imports in 1980. During the same period, cotton, coffee, fruits and
vegetables constituted the main exports.
Production Trends and Past Mricultural Policy
35.       Mexico's basic crops, which include maize, beans, wheat, rice,
sorghum, soybeans and sugarcane are produced on about 75% of the cultivated
area. Production has varied strongly from year to year with a basic growth
trend of 1.5Z to 2.5% over the 1970s, i.e., well below the population growth
rate. Government intervention in the price setting and marketing of these
crops gradually grew stronger over the decade. With the pressure to protect
the consumer against increased food prices during a period of gradually
increasing inflation, the terms of trade worsened. As a result, imports of
these crops increased strongly, i.e., maize imports increased from 736,000
tons in 1970 to 3.8 million tons in 1980, and sorghum imports from 10,900
tons in 1970 to 2.8 million tons in 1981. From 1980 to 1982, the Government
attempted to reverse this trend, by substantially increasing farm-gate prices
and introducing a range of input subsidies in the context of SAM. Farmers
responded positively, but, as consumer prices for the basic products were
adjusted more slowly than producer prices, consumer subsidies increased and
the Government program became too costly to maintain after 1982.
36.       The production of export crops (mainly coffee, fruits and
vegetables), which has remained relatively free from Government intervention
in trade and prices, showed an annual average growth of about 12% between
1975 and 1979. In the ensuing three years, exports of these crops stagnated,
mainly due to an increasing overvaluation of the Mexican currency. However,
indications are that since 1982, growth has resumed. Regarding livestock
activities, beef production grew at an annual rate of 7% between 1975 and
1982; pork, poultry meat and egg production grew at even higher rates,
between 10% and 12% annually over the same period. These growth rates were
sufficient to cover increased domestic demand and Mexico's traditional beef
exports were basically maintained. Milk, however, which is produced under
controlled prices, grew at only about 1.8% per annum during this period.
Milk powder imports in the ten years before 1982 rose at an annual rate of
about 20% and presently equal about 16% of total production in fluid
equivalent.



- 12 -
37.       Growth in related sectors has been mixed: (a) the agroindustries
subsector grew rapidly through the decade of the 1970s (10% per annum), and
in 1979 acccanted for about 18% of the industrial sector's output; (b) the
forestry sector which comprises about 21 million ha of commercial forests is
underexploited, producing only about 9 million m3 of wood products in 1981;
and (c) the fisheries subsector has shown significant growth in recent years
rising from an annual catch of about 0.25 million tons in 1970 to about 2
million tons in 1982. Approximately 30% of the value went into exports
(mainly shrimp) and about 50% of the total catch into fish meal.
Present Government Agricultural Strategy
38.       At the end of 1982, when the new Government took office, there was
an urgent need to reassess and reorient agricultural development policies.
After substantial devaluations, domestic farm-gate prices had deteriorated in
real terms. Strong price increases, especially for the basic commodities,
were required if farmers were to maintain and increase production levels. On
the other hand, in order to suppress inflation there was a need to contain
food price increases. Also, in view of high public sector deficits, the
Government's agricultural subsidy policy needed to be overhauled.
39.       The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development
Plan for 1983-1988, aims at accelerated agricultural growth. The policy
emphasizes the importance of agriculture in increasing Mexican exports and
production of import substitutes. The stated policy over the medium-term is
to guarantee farm prices which are consistent with international prices.
However, in the short-term, emphasis is being placed on adequate compensation
for increases in cost of production and a reasonable profit margin
in determining price levels. Controlled producer prices for most important
crops, including basic staples such as maize and wheat, have been raised
significantly in real terms since the beginning of 1983, so that nearly all
of those prices are currently at or close to international levels. Further
periodic adjustments to compensate, at least for domestic inflation, are
expected in line with recent practice. Input subsidies have been strongly
reduced. Subsidized prices for key inputs (i.e., fertilizer and seeds) are
now only available for rainfed-maize production to small farmers holding less
than 20 ha each. Interest rates on agricultural subloans, which until now
were fixed and generally negative in real terms, will be made variable and
are to approach positive levels gradually in accordance with a timetable that
forms part of the General Interest Rate Agreement between the Government and
the Bank. Irrigation water rates were increased on average about 200% during
1983, and further adjustments are expected to be made towards the stated goal
of achieving operation and maintenance costs recovery under a general
strategy to improve the use and management of Mexico's water and soil
resources. Improvement and rehabilitation projects will be undertaken in
existing irrigation areas, and new investments will be decided on
selectively, stressing small- and medium-scale irrigation projects in regions
with a lesser degree of development. The Government is also taking steps to
decentralize planning, programming and implementation of rural development
projects to state and local levels and to improve interagency coordination.
Agricultural policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank has been
intense in the recent past, and both have agreed to a continuous policy
dialogue in the future.



- 13 -
Agricultural Credit
40.       Within the context of its agricultural development policies, the
Government has used credit as an important instrument for achieving growth
and equity objectives. First, it has encouraged growth in agricultural
lending by making public funds available (through the Bank of Mexico or from
the budget) to various financing agencies, such as the Agricultural Trust
Funds (FIRA), to discount subloans made by Mexican banks. Second, it has
significantly promoted credit to low-income producers by (a) financing
operating subsidies of the state-owned National Rural Credit Bank (BANRDURAL);
(b) providing technical assistance and loan recovery guarantees to commercial
banks that lend to low-income producers; (c) obliging such banks to bold part
of their legal deposits in low-income producers loans; and (d) since 1976,
increasingly subsidizing interest rates on loans to such farmers. The result
has been a dramatic growth in outstanding agricultural credit from the
commercial and public banks from Mex$17.7 billion in 1970 to Mex$218.5
billion in 1981-an average annual increase of 10.4Z in real terms.
Low-income producers accounted for about 50% of the total loan portfolio in
1981.
41.       While agricultural credit grew continuously up to 1981, growth came
to an abrupt end in 1982, when institutional credit to agriculture fell
nationwide by about 28% in real terms; again in 1983 it fefl by about 25%.
The decline occurred because (a) as a result of high inflation, recuperations
on the existing loan portfolio were inadequate to cover the demand for funds;
and (b) the Government was unable to finance the large subsidy required to
bridge this gap. However, in 1984 institutional agricultural credit grew by
about 17% in real terms.  In spite of this renewed growth, the banking system
could not fully satisfy the agricultural credit demand. In addition, because
of the debt crisis, many traditional US sources of short-term financing
outside the domestic banking system disappeared.
42.       FIRA.  The Bank of Mexico is the trustee for the three agricultural
trust funds, which are integrated for management and accounting purposes and
administered as FIRA: (a) the Trust Fund. for Crop, Livestock and Poultry
Credit (FONDO), which discounts participating commercial and public banks
short-term subloans for crops, livestock and agroindustry; (b) the Special
Agricultural Trust Fund (FEFA), which discounts mediumr- and long-term
subloans for crops, livestock and agroindustry; and (c) the Technical
Assistance and Loan Guarantee Trust Fund (FEGA), which defrays to
participating banks part of the cost of subloan evaluation and technical
assistance for low-income producers, and guarantees part of the commercial
banks' contribution to these subloans.
43.       FIRA and the Bank have enjoyed a long and good relationship, having
satisfactorily completed seven projects with the ongoing Eighth Agricultural
Credit Project substantially ahead of schedule (providing a total financing
of US$1.2 billion). The Eighth Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
July 1985 (except US$1 million remaining for technical assistance and support
services) over two years ahead of -schedule. The main reasons for the
accelerated disbursements were the following: First, FIRA, responding to a



- 14 -
buoyant demand for credit, increased its lending by 16% in real terms over
1983 levels. Second, the increase in lending was even greater when stated in
US dollars (50X) because the 1984 inflation rate (59%) was higher than the
1984 devaluation rate of the peso (20%). Third, while the Bank of Mexico
provided the funds projected for FIRA, it was unable to contribute additional
funds in line with FIRA's increased credit demand. As a result, the
percentage of Bank funds utilized represented about 26% of FIRA's 1984
lending, compared to an average of 8% initially estimated for the life of the
loan.
44.       In addition to being one of the main providers of financial
resources to the Mexican agricultural sector, FIRA provides significant
technical assistance to commercial banks and to farmers, through its training
programs and demonstration centers. Throughout the years, FIRA has earned a
good reputation, and its management is experienced and of high quality.
However, some fine tuning of its operations will be needed, especially in the
field of medium-term planning, in order to optimize use of scarce resources.
Moreover, FIRA's technical assistance program needs to be expanded, to
promote producers' adoption of new and improved technology and to strengthen
its monitoring and evaluation procedures. This becomes increasingly important
as FIRA continues to provide more funds to low-income producers.
45.       FIRA has continued to be a relatively sound financial institution.
Its consolidated financial statements at end-December 1984 showed assets
amounting to about Mex$232 billion (US$1.2 billion). These assets were
financed mainly by the Bank of Mexico rediscounting, from external loans for
which the Government absorbed the foreign exchange risk, and by equity.
FIRA's loan portfolio at the end of 1984 amounting to Mex$224 billion (US$1.1
billion) represents about 96% of its total assets, about the same as the 1983
level in real terms. During the five-year period 1977-1981, FIRA increased
its lending to agriculture at an annual average rate of over 20% in real
terms. However, lending fell in 1982 and 1983. Lending in 1983 of about
Mex$123 billion (US$767 million) was about 23X below the 1981 level in real
terms. The situation has since been reversed and in 1984, FIRA increased its
lending over 1983 by 16% in real terms. All subloan repayments are
recuperated on due dates from participating banks through the Bank of
Mexico's current accounts; as a result, FIRA suffers no arrears.  Arrears to
participating commercial banks on subloans discounted by FIRA are estimated
to be less than 4%. FIRA's 1984 lending comprised about 69% for short-term
credit and 31% for medium- and long-term credits. Low-income producers
received 41%, medium-income producers 35%, and other producers 24%.  Of the
total lending, 49% was for crop production, 37% for livestock, 9% for
agroindustries and 5% for other activities.
46.       FIRA has consistently earned annual profits in nominal terms.  In
1984, FIRA's average interest income on its average loan portfolio was 25.4%,
compared to the 1984 inflation rate of 58%, and its cost of funds 18.8%,
providing a net financial income of 6.6%. FIRA's operating costs before
recoveries, comprising technical assistance, demonstration centers and
administration consistently averages about 2.8% of average loan portfolio.
Recoveries derived from production income of demonstration centers and from
Government compensation to FIRA for technical assistance reduced operating
costs in 1984 to 1.7% of average loan portfolio.



- 15 -
47.       Until end-1981, FIRA's annual operating profits were sufficient to
avoid decapitalization of its equity. This position was reversed when
inflation rose to 99% in 1982 and 81Z in 1983, while existing subloans were
at fixed interest rates and the prevailing rates for current lending were not
raised sufficiently to adjust to the high inflation levels of the period.
However, the decapitalization of the loan portfolio was largely absorbed by
the Government through (a) Bank of Mexico rediscounts of about 50% of FIRA's
discounts at varying rates of interest, allowing FIRA a fixed margin of 3% to
3.5%; and (b) Government guarantees, which absorbed exchange losses on almost
all foreign indebtedness. After deducting the Government subsidy, FIRA
suffered decapitalization at an average of about 30% per year during 1982 and
1983. However, the position improved in 1984, when FIRA's equity increased
by 75% in real terms, due to an annual profit for the year amounting to
Mex$8.9 billion (US$47 million) and external liabilities amounting to
Mex$33.3 billion (US$173 million) assumed and capitalized by the Government.
Key financial information on FIRA's operation is included in Annex IV.
48.       For the Eighth Project, FIRA had estimated its lending for the
four-year period (mid-1984 to mid-1988) at US$3,556 million. This would
have allowed it to increase lending by 5% per annum in real terms. However,
because of the higher inflation rate than devaluation rate (para. 43), FIEA's
1984 lending actually increased in US dollar terms by 50%. FIRA's proposed
1985-86 lending program would be financed partly by Bank of Mlexico
financing. The balance would be generated from FIRA's own resources, the
undisbursed balance of the Eighth Project, and through other external
borrowings. FIRA's cash shortfall for 1985 and 1986 is expected to be about
US$570 million. The proposed loan, which would be fully disbursed in
mid-1986, would reduce this gap to US$390 million.
49.       BANRURAL.  BANRURAL, a public entity and the largest Bank in
Mexico, incorporates 12 subsidiary regional banks with 630 branches. Its
lending operations, which totalled about Mex$303 billion (US$1.6 billion) in
1984, consist mainly of short-term credit (about 82%) primarily to low-income
producers (about 90% of the total). The most recent information made
available to the Bank showed BANRURAL's operating costs to be high (about 16%
of the loan portfolio), with a high percentage of its loans in arrears or
unrecoverable; as a result, the bank was heavily subsidized. In 1981, the
Government allocated from its budget about Mex$54 billion (US$2.2 billion),
consisting of an equity contribution of Mex$14 billion and an operational
subsidy of Mex$40 billion. While BANRURAL as a financial inscitution has
been considered to date to be too weak for direct Bank financing, it is
allowed to participate in FIRA's discounting system because FIRA exercises,
through its own control mechanism, sufficient selectivity and supervision to
obtain good subloans. However, FIRA's lending to BANRURAL has steadily
declined from about 16% in 1980 to 6% in 1984.
50.       Commercial Banks.  The commercial banks, which were nationalized on
September 1, 1982, continue to operate in a manner similar to their previous
role as private banks. Because of the support extended by FIRA in terms of
funds, training of staff and other support services, many commercial banks
have established agricultural credit departments with agricultural



- 16 -
technicians, who are graded and authorized to evaluate and approve subloans
at varying levels. Lending operations by commercial banks are traditionally
concentrated on commercial producers and agroindustries. Consequently, the
Bank of Mexico, in order to encourage lending to low-income producers,
stipulated that 0.7% of total deposits of multipurpose banks and 2% of
deposits in commercial banks must be held in the form of agricultural loans
to low-income producers. In addition, FEGA provides guarantees (about 80% of
subloans) and reimburses technical assistance for subloans to low-income
producers. Lending by commercial banks through FIRA to low-income producers
now averages about 34% of total subloans discounted as compared to about 10%
in 1980. The commercial banks discounted about Mex$210 billion
(US$1.1 billion) of subloans with FIRA in 1984, representing 94% of FIRA's
total discounts.
Previous Bank Projects
51.       In the past ten years (FY1975-84), Bank participation in the
agricultural sector amounted to US$2,013 million distributed among 21
projects, of which four were credit projects (FIRA V, VI, VII and VIII) with
Bank financing totalling US$1,065 million. In December 1982, the Bank issued
a combined completion report on the Fifth and Sixth Credit Projects (Report
No. 4240). The overall conclusions were as follows:
(a) FIRA's performance has been impressive and has had a strongly
positive impact on agricultural production and institution
building;
(b) specific components set aside in Bank loans for low-income
producers have helped to focus lending more on this farmer
category.  Also, lending, which was initially mainly for
livestock, has become progressively more diversified;
(c)  FIRA is in the process of developing a monitoring and
evaluation system to measure lending impact, and has over the
past three years effectively decentralized its lending
operations, as a result of which most of its field offices
have a reputation for excellence;
(d) the gap (since 1976) between FlRA's interest rates and
commercial interest rates progressively widened as no
provisions were made for periodic adjustments during
implementation. This caused (i) an accelerating demand for
credit; and (ii) a slow deterioration of FIRA's financial
position; and
Ce) FIRA's capabilities for sectoral analysis, planning and
programming and internal control of subloans was inadequate in
the face of strongly expanded demand.
52.       The completion report for the Seventh Agricultural Credit Project
is currently being prepared. This project was designed taking into account
the experiences and lessons gained through the previous projects. There was
a significant improvement in quality control of subloans financed through



- 17 -
FIRA. An Operating Regulations and Procedures Manual and a data base system
was developed, and a monitoring and evaluation system has been satisfactorily
organized. Whilst FIRA's capabilities for in-depth sectoral analysis and
medium-term planning and programming had improved, further improvements were
still necessary. In addition, interest rate adjustments were not sufficient
to cover the gap between agricultural on-lending rates and inflation. The
Eighth Project has substantially fulfilled its objectives. It continued to
provide funds to support FIRA's good record of credit delivery, technical
assistance to the producers and further improved its sectoral analysis,
planning and programming.   Loan commitments were substantially in accordance
with the initially agreed program of lending, with low-income producers
receiving over 50% of subloans under the project. In addition, it contributed
to the improvement of agricultural sector policies through the conclusion and
implementation of a general interest rate agreement, which reduced interest
rate subsidies.
53.       During the past year, completion reports were issued on the
Papaloapan Rural Development Project (Loan 1053-ME), the Bajo Rio Bravo
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1111-ME), and the Tropical
Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1553-ME). The combined lessons
learned from these projects are: (a) projects in new areas, especially where
experience and knowledge are limited, should be modest in scope and design.
In determining the number of components, consideration should be taken of
institutional capacity and local experience; (b) the completion of thorough
basic studies and the substantial completion of detailed design work are
prerequisites to appraisal and approval of projects with major infrastructure
components; (c) shifts in cropping patterns are not only dependent on
technical consideration but also on Government price and support policies;
and (d) an initial high level of extension coverage is necessary for the
adoption of new technology, particularly in underdeveloped zones.
54.       Implementation of ongoing projects is currently slow because of
limited counterpart funds. This slowness and the fact that the Government's
financial control and reimbursement procedures are cumbersome, had caused
disbursements to lag. The Government, in consultation with the Bank, has
reduced the scope of and cancelled loan funds for some of the ongoing
projects and has reviewed the financia'l control procedures and introduced
some simplification. The recent high devaluations (since 1982) contributed
to the budgetary problems, which further slowed down execution of ongoing
projects and disbursements. However, the Bank's implementation of a Special
Action Program (para. 23) has eased the budgetary constraints and facilitated
project implementation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       The proposed loan of US$180 million would provide interim financing
for FIlA from the closing of the ongoing Eighth Agricultural Credit Project
until preparation and commencement of a new and broader agricultural credit
project. It is based on the appraisal of the Eighth Project which is
described in Staff Appraisal Report No. 5014-NE, dated June 4, 1984. The
Eighth loan will be fully disbursed in mid-1985, over two years ahead of



- 18 -
schedule (para. 43) except US$1 milliun remaining for technical assistance
and support services. Without the proposed interim finance, FIRA would have
to curtail its lending program, with negative consequences for agricultural
production and rural incomes. Meanwhile, the Bank and the Government would
have sufficient time to: (a) fully review the current status of credit in
Mexico; and (b) design a follow-up project in support of further
institutional and policy reforms in agricultural credit, including possible
assistance to other agricultural credit institutions and producer pricing.
Annex III contains a timetable of key events in the processing of the project
and a description of the special conditions of the proposed loan.
Negotiations of the proposed loan were concluded in Washington, D.C. on May
29-30, 1985. The Mexican delegation team was headed by Mr. Luis Nava of
NAFINSA, and included representatives from the Secretariat of Finance and
FIRA.
Project Objectives and Description
56.       As in the Eighth Project and in accordance with the Government's
overall development plan of promoting agricultural growth and reducing fiscal
deficit, the objectives of the proposed interim project would be to:
(a) raise agricultural productivity with a view to increasing food
production, agricultural exports, and real farm income; and
(b) improve agricultural sector policies by reducing interest rate
subsidies and restricting them to special target groups.
57.       In order to achieve these objectives, the proposed project would:
(a) provide for investment credit to farmers for crops, livestock
and agroindustries; and
(b) continue to support policy changes for (i) the introduction of
a more realistic definition of subloan beneficiaries, and
Cii) a gradual reduction and eventual elimination of
subsidized interest rates, except for low-income farmers.
58.       The proposed project would be implemented over a one-year period.
It wonld include finance only for investment credit.  Most project
requirements-including interest rates, subproject appraisal, supervision and
preparation of investment programs, and monitoring and evaluation-would
apply to FIRA's total lending program. About 50% of the proposed loan
proceeds would be directed to low-income producers, 44% to medium income
producers, and 6% to other producers. Investment subloans to beneficiaries
would, as in the past, be based on technically and economically sound
development plans. Investment lending would be for annual and perennial
crops, livestock and agroindustries.
59.      Thne remaining balance of the technical assistance component
included in the ongoing Eighth Project would continue to strengthen FIRA's
institutional framework enabling FIRA to allocate financial resources



- 19 -
efficiently.  To achieve the above, FIRA will continue to provide:
(a) technical assistance to farmers to enable appropriate transfer
and adoption of improved technology; and
(b) support services to continue the training of technical staff
from FIRA and participating banks and strengthen FIRA's
medium- and long-term development planning.
60.       Crop Lending Program.  Investment lending for crops would cover the
complete range of production types from annual to perennial cropping under
rainfed and irrigated conditions. Crop investment subloans would include a
diversity of loan size, type of borrower and ecological conditions.
Investment items for the crop lending program would include, inter alia, land
improvement, equipment and machinery purchases, civil works construction,
including supporting infrastructure for irrigation and storage, and
establishment of fruit orchards and industrial crop plantations.
61.       Livestock Lending Program.  The investment lending for livestock
would be for beef and dual-purpose production, dairy production, and other
livestock operations. As in the case of crop investment subloans, there
would be a diversity of loan size, type of borrower and ecological conditions
in livestock subloans. Investment items would include purchase of breeding
stock, renovation and/or establishment of pastures, construction of
buildings, fences and handling facilities and provision of water supplies.
62.       Agroindustries Lending Program.  Investment lending to the
agroindustrial sector would go particularly to small- and medium-scale
producers.  The portfolio of agroindustrial investments-sawmills, fisheries,
feedmills, grain elevators, milk processing plants, and slaughterhouse
facilities would continue to vary widely. However, the project would not
finance marketing components of subprojects, as these would be financed under
the Agricultural Marketing Project (Loan 2262-ME).
Project Costs and Financing
63.       The cost of the project is estimated at US$473 million, and is
designed for medium- and long-term investments only (Annex 5). About US$180
million, or 38%, represents the estimated foreign exchange component. The
proposed project would represent about 34% of FIRA's total lending program
during the project period.
64.       The financial arrangements would be similar to those under the
Eighth Project. Financing to be provided by FIRA, participating banks, and
the beneficiaries would amount to 32%, 15%, and 15%, of the project cost,
respectively. The proposed loan would be made to Nacional Financiera, S.A.
(NAFINSA), a Government agency designated to borrow from the Bank, at
standard terms for Mexico. The proceeds would be transferred to FIRA as
equity and NAFINSA would repay the principal amount of the Bank loan together
with interest and other charges. This contribution to equity would assist
FIRA in avoiding an erosion of capital. However, with FIRA having revised
and increased its lending program, it will suffer an accumulated cash



- 20 -
shortfall to end-1986 of about US$390 million. The Government has provided
assurances that it will (a) require participating banks to finance from
their own funds the agreed percentages of subloans; (b) cause participating
banks to lose eligibility for subproject participation where arrears of loans
discounted hy FIRA are in excess of 15%; (c) ensure thac the proceeds of the
Bank loan would be transferred to FIRA as equity; and (d) provide the
necessary resources to offset FIRA's cash shortfall (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule 2, Part B, para. 2 and Section 2.02(d); draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.01(b); and draft Guarantee Agreement Section 2.02(a)(ii) and
2.02(c)).
Procurement
65.       FIRA would require sub-borrowers to obtain quotations from several
sources of supply, whenever practicable, for goods, civil works, and imports
of breeding livestock to be financed under subloans. Machinery and equipment
for agroindustries would be purchased by private producers or groups of
producers through commercial channels (draft Project Agreement, Sections
2.02(a)(ii) and 2.06). Bulk purchasing under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) would not be feasible, since the agricultural lending
activities would be widely distributed geographically, cover a variety of
farm and ranch investment activities, and involve a large number of
sub-borrowers. An adequate selection of machinery, tractors and other
agricultural equipment and inputs is available to sub-borrowers through local
and international suppliers.
Disbursements
66.       All the subloans under the project would be committed and proceeds
of the proposed Bank loan disbursed over approximately one year. The Bank
would reimburse FIRA 55% of its discounts for disbursed project subloans. A
Special Account of US$30 million would be established in NAFINSA to assist in
project implementation and facilitate disbursements. As the proposed project
would be a continuation of Bank support to FIRA's lending program, the Bank
would retroactively finance subloans amounting to US$18 million made by FIRA
after June 1, 1985. Disbursements against statements of expenditures under
FIRA loans are expected to continue to be satisfactory.   The above
disbursement period is based on the Bank's experience with FIRA, having
implemented eight credit projects consistently above the regional and Bank
averages for credit projects.
Project Execution
67.       FIRA would be responsible for project execution.  Funds would be
channeled through participating public and commercial banks. Formulation,
evaluation, approval, and supervision of investment development plans would
be carried out primarily by FIRA-approved participating bank technicians,
with support from FIRA staff. During the period of the proposed project,
funds remaining from the Eighth Loan would continue to support FIRA's
institution building by strengthening its delivery of technical assistance,
development planning, and its monitoring and evaluation capabilities for
measuring the impact of its lending.



- 21 -
Sublending Procedures
68.       Beneficiary Categories.  Currently, agricultural producers are
classified for credit purposes in three groups: (a) low-income producers
whose principal income is derived from farming: their total annual income,
including income from other sources, should be less than 1,000 times the
relevant regional minimum daily rural wage; (b) medium-income producers whose
total annual income is between 1,000 and 3,000 times the minimum daily rural
wage; and (c) other producers whose total annual income is in excess of the
upper limit for medium-income producers.  Minimum daily wages are established
for over 100 economic regions throughout the country and currently range
between US$3.3 to US$4.5 equivalent. While the above classification of
low-income producers (about US$700 per capita income compared to the national
per capita income of US$2,270, is reasonable, the percentage of farmers
included in this category is high, embracing approximately 78% of all farmers
throughout the country. As low-income producers would continue to receive an
interest rate subsidy at a high fiscal cost to the Treasury, the Government
has agreed under the General Interest Rate Agreement, described below, to
carry out a study to evaluate and redefine low-income producers. The first
phase of the study was carried out in 1984 and focused on development of the
criteria required for allocation of subsidies to low income beneficiary
groups. The second phase of the study, which is currently in progress, will
redefine the subloan beneficiary categories after taking into account the
experience of the implementing agencies. Because of the complexity of this
issue and the time-consuming nature of the administrative process of
conversion to a new definition of beneficiary categories, it is not feasible
to introduce such changes as part of this proposed project.
69.       Interest Rate Structure.  The Bank and the Government signed a
General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) on August 7, 1984. GIRA is a master
agreement which covers interest rates in individual loans for credit
programs. It provides for the linking of the interest rates to a central
reference rate (an index of average cost of funds to multi-purpose banks-
ACF), a systematic accounting of subsidies, a gradual phasing-out of
remaining subsidies for most beneficiary categories, periodic adjustment of
rates and a reduction in the dispersion of interest rates. It also provides
a framework for financial sector work, and an agenda for a structured policy
dialogue and periodic consultations. The proposed project would support the
implementation of GIRA and additional financial performance conditionality is
not needed.
70.       The period4c adjustment of interest rates provided for under GIRA
would allow existing rates to gradually become positive by January 1, 1987,
except for subloans to low-income producers who would receive only a small
subsidy after the above date, as shown below.   The Agreement also provides
that new subloans would have variable interest rates. FIRA would suffer some
decapitalization (para.47) because: (a) of its existing fixed interest
subloans; and (b) the fact that the movement to positive rates is gradual.
However, the adoption of increased and variable rates would allow FIRA to
gradually increase its profits, so that within a period of about eight years,
it would be able to kaintain its equity in real terms entirely from profits.



- 22 -
The problem of FIRA's decapitalization is related to Mexico's economic and
financial crisis of 1982. It is a consequence of the Government's inability
to raise all nominal interest rates to a level that would have been required
to keep them positive in real terms. The decapitalization of FIRA is
therefore a relatively new and temporary problem that will be resolved
through the combined effect of gradual rate adjustment, as provided for under
GIRA, and a decline in inflation.
Structure and Adjustment of On-lending Interest Rates by
Category of Producers for Medium- and Long-Term Subloans a/
Category of Producers
Low         Medium               Commercial
Revision Dates             Income        Income       Basic Products D/   Other
-- --Rates cJ /
Current - revised
April 1, 1985              63            80               99              ACF+5
September 1, 1985            67            87               99              ACF+2
January 1, 1986              70            90               ACF             ACF+2
July 1, 1986                 75            95               ACF             ACF+2
January 1, 1987              80
a/  For short-term subloans, an additional 2% would be added to the
equivalent nominal rates and an additional 1% for all agroindustrial
subloans.
bl  Basic products for Bank financed projects would only include maize,
wheat, sorghum, beans and rice.
cl Rates as a percentage of ACF, or as ACF plus additional points.
71.       Under GIRA, the Government and the Bank consult periodically on the
accounting for interest rate subsidies to correct any future distortions in
the interest rates that may result from unforeseen changes in the economy.
The first such consultation was made in December 1984 and the second is
planned for July 1985. The next adjustment is to be determined in the July
consultations, for effectiveness on September 1, 1985. The Government has
begun to introduce a system of variable interest rates for some sectors;
i.e., small- and medium-mining, industrial equipment financing, and in
agriculture for subloans discounted by FIRA.
72.       The April adjustment has brought the Government substantially in
compliance with GIRA. This adjustment raised the levels of interest rates
for medium- and long-term investment credit as follows: (a) low-income
producers, 30%; (b) medium-income producers, 38%; and (c) commercial
producers, 52%, with a preferential rate of 47% if they produce 'basic
products-. Where the credit is short-term, 2% is to be added to each of the
above rates. Credit for agroindustrial purposes attracts another 1Z. The
current level of interest rate subsidies, as measured by the difference
between ACF and the nominal rate charged to alternate borrowers, has been
reduced from the December 1984 levels and now amounts to about 37% (1984,
502) for low-income producers, 20% (1984, 35%) for medium-income producers,
and 1% (1984, 17Z) for commercial producers of -basic products-. Interest
rates are positive for other commercial producers.



- 23 -
73.       As part of the General Interest Rate Agreement, the appropriateness
of the ACF as a central reference rate was reviewed and accepted, based on a
special technical study prepared by the Mexicans and presented to the Bank in
December 1984. Interest rates will conform to the rates stipulated in the
General Interest Rate Agreement (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2, Part B,
para. 6 and draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02).
74.       Currently, participating banks are allowed a discount margin
between the on-lending rate to the sub-borrower and that paid to FIRA,
ranging from 2% to 7%. This margin, which is currently adequate, would be
reviewed together with the interest rates every six months. Margins allowed
to the participating banks would require discussion and agreement with the
Bank before revision (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2, Part F, para. 6).
75.       Subloan Appraisal and Supervision.  Over the years, FIRA has
developed sound subloan appraisal and supervision procedures. Subloans would
be evaluated and approved by FIRA and participating bank technicians subject
to FIRA's approval for subloans above prescribed limits. Under the proposed
project, FIRA would be required to obtain prior approval from the Bank for
project subloans in excess of US$800,000 equivalent, which also applies to
individual subloans resulting from group activity. No subloan would be made
for on-farm investment if the amount of the proposed subloan, together with
the aggregate amount outstanding under previous FIRA-financed subloans to
such a borrower were to exceed the equivalent of US$260,000 for each subloan
beneficiary. FIRA's recently introduced Operating Regulations and Procedures
Manual includes the guidelines for subloan evaluations, the level of
authority for subloan approval, and the proper utilization of subloan
proceeds.   Assurances have been obtained that FIRA will adhere to the above
subloan appraisal and supervision procedures (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.03 and Schedule 2, Part B, para. 4).
Reporting Requirements
76.       FIRA has developed an efficient system of timely reporting to the
Bank. Quarterly progress reports summarizing project performance, subloan
disbursements by categories and FIRA rediscounts are routinely submitted to
the Bank no latcr than 60 days after the end of each quarter. Detailed
reports are prepared semi-annually and submitted to the Bank no later than
three months after the end of each six-month period. FIRA would continue to
adhere to Bank reporting requirements and to submit a Project Completion
Report within six months of the Closing Date.
Accounts and Audit
77.       FIRA has consistently presented timely annual audited accounts.
The accounting system of FIRA trust funds is satisfactory. FIRA would
maintain separate project records, as established for the ongoing Eighth
Credit Project.  FIRA's accounts have been audited during recent years by
external auditors, and all audit reports of its accounts have been
unqualified. An audit, satisfactory to the Bank, would be made of the
accounts, statements of expenditures (SOEs) submitted to the Bank, and



- 24 -
financial statements of FIRA for each fiscal year. The audit would be in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied by independent
and qualified auditors appointed by the Controller General and the Bank of
Mexico. Certified copies of the statements audited, together with the report
of the auditors, which would also comment on the SOEs, would be submitted to
the Bank no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
Adequate accounts and records would also be maintained within all the
participating banks so as to identify all transactions pertaining to FIRA
rediscounted subloans.
Project Benefits
78.       It is estimated that additional project benefits would accrue in
direct proportion to the percentage increase in the size of the original
project. The project would benefit an estimated additional 62,000 families,
or about 350,000 additional beneficiaries. Secondary benefits would al3so
accrue from processing and agricultural service activities. At full
development, it is estimated that, based on previous experience, annual
production of basic crops (maize, beans, wheat, rice and sorghum) would
increase by about 0.6 million metric tons; cotton, soybeans, and safflower by
60,000 tons; milk by 9 million liters; beef and pork by 70,000 tons; and eggs
by 70,000 tons. The incremental production of basic crops alone would amount
to foreign exchange savings of about US$80 million per annum at full
development. Likewise, increased production of export crops would contribute
to annual foreign exchange earnings in excess of the above savings on
incremental basic crops. The project would cause an increase of net cash
income tc beneficiaries. Most investment plans are expected to have
financial and economic rates of return in the range of 18% to 35%.
79.       Funds remaining from the Eighth Project would continue to assist
institution building by: (a) strengthening FIRA's analytical and medium- and
long-term planning capabilities allowing a better allocation of investment
resources over the longer term; (b) expanding technical assistance for the
promotion and adoption by farmers of available improved technologies; and
(c) further supporting the Monitoring and Evaluation Division to measure
project impact, including the adoption rate of available technology.
Project Risks
80.       Since FIRA is an efficient and mature institution, the project
presents no special risk in terms of the technical and financial soundness of
various investment opportunities that would be financed under the program.
The main risk would be that political pressures would impede progress in
eliminating interest rate subsidies, especially in case of a resurgence of
inflation causing a further deterioration of FIRA's financial position, a
continued drain on the Government budget resources, and a misallocation of
production factors. These risks are limited by the Government having
recognized the need to reduce subsidies and having committed itself, through
the General Interest kate Agreement, to gradually adjusting interest rates
towards positive levels, and to have FIRA become self-sufficient.



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement and General Interest Rate Agreement
between the United Mexican States and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement
between Bank of Mexico and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
82.       Special conditions of the project have been described in Part IV of
this Report and are listed in Section II of Annex III.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
84.       I recommend that the Execut've Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Zccachments
June 28, 1985



_26_                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 36
MExICO                - SOCIAL IurICnarts ITA suEm
MEXICO                              REFORE  GROUS (HEIGTD AVEGS) 
rDST                    (NM  smur ESTIHArE) lb
caUmsCI     I          S mamI u w DItm
issa!!!    197  ESmDIATELb.        LAT. AIIRRCA4  CAR          EURE
AM   TONa SQ. M)
TOTAL                              1972.5     1972.5   1972.5
AGICULTURAL                        985.2       976.4    979.5
430, Q CAPT  (131U)                   360.0       730.0   2270.0            2108.6                   2345.3
-RO aNUMTION PM CAlMa
(KILOGRAMS OP OIL EQUIVALENT)      539.0       773.0   1340.0             995.5                   1122.5
III^LTIX AM  trTAL SfAIT
POPULAfTON*HIb-TEAR CTHOUAIS)    37073.0    51176.0  73122.0
URBAN PopuLATiO (2 or ToTAL)        50.8        59.0     68.0              66.5                     46.8
POPULATION ROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TA  200 CHILL)                           109.4
STATIONARY POPATION (HILL)                             196.5
PoPULArIoN noszuimi                                     1.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. i.                         IB.B       25.9     36.1              35.7                     82.9
PER Sq. IN. ACRI. LAND            37.7        5Z.4     72.8              92.4                    150.9
POPULATION AGE SRUCTURE (I)
0-14 US                           45.6       46.5      44.3             39.9                     31.6
15-64 URS                         51.0        50.0     52.2              56.0                     61.1
65 AND ABV                         3.4         3.5      3.4               4.1                      7.1
POPUIATION QOUTH RATE (C)
TOTAL                               3.0        3.2      3.0               2.4                      1.6
URBAN                              4.8         4.7      4.2               3.6                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE CPEU THOUS)        45.4        43.4     33.9              31.3                     Z3.4
CRUE DeATH RATE (PR TlOS)            12.2        9.7      7.1               8.1                      8.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3        3.2      2.2               2.0                      L.6
FREELY PLANUING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)           .-        25.1   1145.0 /C
USERtS (2  F MARAIUD   UN)          *           *      39.0 T            40.3
FOOD AM NIrZ
INDEX OF FODO PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-IS0)                       97.0       100.0    104.0             134.3                    L14.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CAIORIES (I OF REQUIRNIENTS)      117.0      112.0    121.0             110.6                    126.6
PROTEINS (CANS PER OAY)           69.0        6b.0     74.0              67.3                     89.7
OF WH1C0 ANIMAL AD PULS!         29.0       27.0      28.0 Id          34.1                     34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          10.3        6.5      4.0               5.7                      5.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (ARS)         57.0        61.3     65.4              64.7                     67.4
INFANT NORT. IRATE (PER THOUS)      91.1        73.6     52.9              60.6                     54.2
ACCESS IU SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                              23.5       49.0 Io  58.0 /.           65.4
URWA                                 .        68.5 1.  61.4 /.           78.1
RURAL                               ..        21.071   5i.07r            46.2
ACCESS TO ErETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                .        3 7.0 le  38.0 Ie          52.9
U                                   ..        60.07;  50.1 7.            67.0
RURAL                                 .        4.0 7    13.07;           2 4.5
POPULATION PEA PSlISCLAN           1830.0     1510.0        .            L917.7                   lOb15.
POP. PER NURSXC PERSON            3650.0      1390.0       .-            B15.                     764.4
POP. PER HSPrTAL BED
TUTAL                             590.0      970.0        .             3b6.2                    32b.3
URBN                             570.0 /f  1170.0        .-             611.5                    201.5
RURAL                                -      1370-0                     2636.3
AINUSSIONS PE HOSPITAL ED             ..          ..                       27.3                     20.0
I-C
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                               5.4        5.7
IRBAN                              5.7         5.7
RUAL                                5.2        5.8
AVERAGE NO. OF PEtSONSIROON
TOTAL                               2.9        2.5
URBN                               2.6         2.2
RURL                                3.4        3.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF WELLIVCS)
TOTAL                                ..       SI.9
URBAN                               ..        80.7
RURAL                               ..        27.8



- 27 -                                            ANNEX I
TA I  L  3A                                   Page 2 of 5
mcO                    - SOCa. TNDICATOfS DATA S
MEXICO                              REPERENCE GROUPS (wEICHTED AVAES) a
ST                      (NOSYRET RUM ESTIMIA) lb
RGCENT          MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
196v&!     1970f! xESTIMATzLb      LAT. AMERICA   GU cUa1uon
ADJUSTED ENROLLMT RATIOS
PRDIARY:  TOTAL                    80.0       104.0    121.0              105.4                    101.1
MALE                     82.0      106.0    122.0              106.3                    105.5
FEMIAE                  77.0       102.0    120.0              104.5                     96.7
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   11.0        22.0     51.0              43.2                      59.1
.IALE                    14.0       26.0      54.0              42.3                     66.9
FEKALE                   8.0        17.0      49.0              44.5                     50.6
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)          23.6        26.7     11.6              33.6                      21.6
PUPIL-TEAGNER RATIO
PRDINY                             44.0        46.0     37.0               30.1                     25.1
SECONDARY                          13.0        16.0     16.0               16.9                     20.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)              65.4        74.2     82.7               79.5                     75.6
PASSENGER CARS/ OUSMD POP            12.9        24.1     61.3              46.0                      54.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         89.0       273.7    295.4              225.6                    164.9
TV RECEIVERS/7HOUSAND FOP            17.5        56.5    108.1              107.2                    1Z3.8
NEUSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
:NTERESr) CIRIILATION
PER THOUSAND POPLATION             73.3          ..     64.5              63.5                     96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       9.8         4.9      4.4 Ir             2.8                      2.9
TOTAL LABR FORCE (THOUS)          11191.0    14722.0  Z1398.0
PEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        17.4     20.0              23.2                      34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              55.1        45.2     35.6               31.5                     40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.5        22.9     25.8              23.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.2        28.8     29.3               32.2                     42.9
ML                                 51-1        47.4     46.7               49.3                     54.7
FEMALE                              9.2        10.1     11.7               15.2                     31.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.6         1.7      1.6                1.4                     0.9
INCOM DISTIIBUTIOE
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
HIGNEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS          61.1 /b    60.7      57.7 /d
LOWEST 2CO OF HOUSEHOLDS            3.4 7ii    3.3       2.9 7d*
LO6EST 40: OF HOUSEHOLDS            9.8 7h      9.9      c.9 7d.
POWERT! TAr GPOWS
ESTLMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..       ..              288.2
RURAL                                ..          ..       ..              184.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERT IXNCME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..    471.0 Ic           522.8
RURAL                                ..          ..    471.0o 7           372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEiRT INCOME LEVEL (2)
URLAN                                .           .        .                  ..
RURAL                                ..
OWT AVAILTI.E
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T 8 S
/a  Tbe group averages for each lndicator are population-weighted aritbmetic means. Coverage of coutrlea aong the
Indicators depends on availabilLty of data and is wt uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted  -Dta for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Dta for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for -Moet Recent Estimate between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1979; Id 1977; /e Served from water supply and sewage; /f 1962; Ig 1976; lh 1963.
JUNE. 1984



-28-                                                               ANNEX I
msotin  m ..~~~~                                          Page 3of 5
Il545..  U1msl 54   *4. deeM     IS.. 5.05 j-sslII I1: 1.4-5              4555544 5* S1454. U .5*4 ld8 A-    55.4 -110   5445 to"  555p l .         kw55
1. 4- 55.5     i.ote-I0l.  1) 1    ef055  ss0 .4544o oebJs.5 te.1, 5* 4) * tol s.l0m       all -4.44 ` HO    --554   10  "a 5mm 4-01157  u -1 lb-
I555.  5 5.5541*4 5555w455. -  t54t45451 54 55554. 114455      W    --k 5-40  5 -555o.s 5s -0544*4-5l44   9  5554.40   545.54.I RPM5  144a .0 57o e  -
I,   "'I""       55455 44.55 5.  5143175  5515                              -                             551 5 h*4.4 5*55544 -a won5
"55.555.11140    as..5*        154.4    45( .155                                       44*.5
55351 554 5555 45                                          P5555~~~~~~~~~555 545 :i1~~~Wv.zi"  WI&. =.Imm ISM    555c    Role4.4
C-LEMCUER M    C-P Ie, -L- -IS.-  pt-.              _"MbI.9. p"I. II P.Uow MII1 IW .                 51me 5 b 5"We.45
,              -L_  -Jrn   " 5"5   4554554.. ssssl- ts.O.s p541.5.             0555554 14k 555441.  ftop.4w 55.5        .4*1.55-54 44.94551 *:
5445. two. -a NMI5 4.55.                                                            44 It Ma4so -  45514415  5415540555ef 53541,145545545.5l4  -.4541
-. ss 5* 1.550. 44-sl %mamm"I. 50...le. 15555* 4.-44 -4
-t 4444.1? IS 545. lose. ea NM              l~U
411C51.55dole . to    5. 5*;5514.44                                               544aMlla    405*1 *6.5 ooek154545s  W p.50-5.n2.I             edA
loro. ~~~~~ 1-3 4-                            f-  -   me-I P.V-. ~            ~    55. 4554*05
4* ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~o                                                                                       "  *55  "515.5515505555*4"95a 554
g*44  lo*oel55  555555  F-4 55S4.LLI1 `545  ."5455 .55455                     -.os.1     p.age.
45-5. -..05 4555. 5* 155-. 5. "IS sbvss*S.5g. "a          3.4 -.5S54mIb5.4..54                                                         -5145  -L44-
355.  4 550445  15 55555 Ito. 505.   .454...."da1..4                          __.41  53.fi 5*5..  *15*ss.4..Sh.-I
58455 55-&5-55. 445A 055 55eae 55 S4 L-4 vat fal..
a_m4... .5 M5a5.515554   15*54p....    ..45                                                      4
-.bfng-.9 oft.1a,Iol145L4"*-1 5* 555""".5145   55114
055       Uh 55554 p544  .5.5s1.  -Ut,sGlooe t.4s44-L. e1..sS.k
See- 4l s555445*1 otelo  It IMM-54055 4me    55*                               s415,_7 .01-usm 555544450  -ss511  5445.455       d~Me 4554 15444
- s,545.45  5.5 e45. 5  5.4 5   Iss .    elI Mee s44 455 -_*                    = 5  555  55445.5. S454.545 .0I, 45F pitos "oe o 44_
.55.45*545.5       V. -44.1-ft551455444545. .4544                                 .54-*05-5-5t54-14wit  -5 445.44 0r  544 a.515sn.  amo1 4p*
4*55 .4444 5551.45.4               IN5545.54    c.4544.555455.. 1444 s.                                                                   --545  4*     45.4555   45      5   4.  s5Idw
44. OSeII0IIS m        s  444* 555555   -9t --. m5.5     .4. 555                   5.-515, 5.1544.    9 .                  -       2     -
.5 ...5410-c.S45 44545.5 544 54541        d 5554  554%.                            it,45454 1.5.54      15  554   55054   ,5
.5 5554  554p53455,105.5t.55.5 11.555 Y155. w  f                            5.s..4.144 455.4.-.ssa   ltSS.
InI4 14.5  .5.                                                                s44554s-5.S..15.. .                      T-I.v   .5 5.5*  .  55 - .
55   .5.- 4   1435.55141  d5  5*  555545                                 Ioe155.4555  5II-    Ss..5..      -     It  (b
5.1.1 45555 4454.  ~   5.45441 4455.                      44511 155~54I   5.5- 55 15.54      54   41.44.455.45.)
lug1555  54. tw. -- 51442 4.-5                                               .555.               544  550                I-I    . 44.I. 5*
r54 55.4445- 45*-5455 554552.                                                   445  4554545  55U.5..55  445-Ju  ."- 51 5.55555  54-5544
5L3542                                         55145054 1015555II55 50555I  5*4."55   5.  -45.5541 5544III
044. 555554455 1 .3 55s.54  1- 41 14.N. 55445150*...                                -  .41.145t445e   4 5L- 5l.455551545  54555.0
b-    Iftee            a - .   "_1             .41. __ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _  1r5 5 55                                   44 4
Ma"Ilty  il   ._a. 5*4I"5 4*4..                        5415 N  5                    s.0155*57.4 0545544 .415554It4t-  45 .11 155
5.51547555Ib5544               4550554544 sssa V .45.-Ur                                                                 5 -  0544Osm
5*              455*1*W555    Lf1.  M7 44555    5540   ct       4.11    5  5545
-  554*55454 44  -    --  ~ ~  ~ ~ Nepoltt-11It 55
4545-4.5444*  55 455.115    4*45-4   .154s.t W4~105. -I.                                                 _              W5044*05   55555  54414 53.4
b-d        -41. pe"_pm           al" *61-11 [on. Ia lift - 558NMI 5555.4  55.  53554   54
54 14.55.  4.5.1   5  45.5   545 ...c.V..;                                  -----_=- 5-o" 5.. F-el.Ss.     55.-5I5L5.11 SsssssSss
45545 l5*4545r55.4)   545 ..554 53*451 t1o5 0555                              IVA.5.s"M.   10.4   Z5.4.4555      load45  to'.s 154  5S.  4    -.SP
05.45*1444 5555* 55505  554A55    -I4.55  55 14. 5939. II1453                     -1155    M_ -    -r-vvWc-   I   ~
4545.                                                                    Ss555515*-W. t155 d5".1.l5 %52 f- 51.L -4.   5.54,S.-5555514
by PD b-    - powafs-L- 054.   5..445 55-                            55554  545.44.  5545.5*105.rIs    6145  I55
*44.5*  5 5545*.441spSS  .ss. 5155555* 554WS555    545.5..54455.40 3.455145 kt12  455411.54by4 4ta
el -                          2M 90~k ~ J13LEk-4445555.55  *.51*15*.55
III44 *PI a*5  0454.45             ,. few~ 105.5d55d 5*  55144.                              4*55555.4  54.515. 5144)
544 5*  e- 441,45551 544445             MM 45555545  55745  5.45
55 55- *4 .15545 46 54l C 59455*5-4.4  4554.    4S.          .-
P144    5.   1, 55445ta14 4.5   b*445 b.  5754  055   44II 5.5 5*4
555d   I_C-O.           sp 447.   44051.415    45455  4 *..- -                           _     555. (4415    IC 5.555*4541 445555 J.-W. ad
.1 -4-1 P-W - -  ~   t- eft, -W   __ Ur rw                    a*05. W45*    5..44. 5155I5559 55555            5554    555
O slp s   545 41.  5 9 5 5   54 ,5455.                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __H ._ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
~~ 051, 53.. .445*t a5*  4"1  Iw ,.s.s           t  m.                                                       UI.. 055..*   45    L. d_I   f- .345. .51
45~54 1*55554 5*sslI.  55*4  445 410. 135  * 537             .*5515. .0544           to    -a    0 It-Us U
4544.                                                                  441554454..~R                                    1".-4    ~        L
0.51r    .5 .-pay        55  4.544   4.  45445  554545                           1505  455555III4.. 4150555444   .45  *3.. 
5550   C"449-14  ld 4455s - I5*.- -   3 -.55. 41  41.ts.5*55
45*5R. 55*55.155 5-55 5534744 1454 - 9515  54 54
U45*  445455515   544  .54L.4..5   .5
---44555 .55*. .5W551=454  .5.55  cos  5.*.555555 455555*45 4511
p-     ..C =L. 4 m t05 48555545*14*.5. eet 4*5*0444   -W ""'                                                              *p.s5  '5..5    45.5.
505 -5e55- by5  5.0-          - 55545  5.5545 C. it5*.5  .55't4S  5*.55 5
.4445545        5se5e     s  *5 11.415545.40   5.



Wm -  ~~~   a, 
NM,t                                        238112                      MOM mmuElS
asia simm                         maim~~~~~~~~19    nrns Ia  ilium           INWmi                      l                t-  "            "    IU                   w         m    a          IV
MP                                          L323    ME.6    3632   32.16   OLD1  IENA    Ithi   34.3   211.2                      Lee    6.3       3.6      1E              101.13   111.6  3lLn   202.
tWIN a  WiIWW                              -LV?   -L3        CO3      1.6    -U    -.4l   -4.0    -L.6    -1.42                     .4  .-.1                                          #A      -1.1    .2.4
ml                                         ILE4   U24LM    16.221  221.14    931  511.11   116.11   169.1   342.3                1.16     6.3      1.6     LII             6.3   11..  361   tO.N
amint CO26. mlt                             1.3     121 4    LU 3 22.17    M."    ILE4   ILI?    19.414  311,                     LU      14.30   -.3.   11.34               9.9    4.6      9.38   12.41
["e   il o . muo                            LE    ts.,.   36a    3mel   u1.3    33.92   La6d    326,            44.13             Lis   1.3       LIS      4.90             I.16   22.64    11.      65
main  mas                                   tie    -2.03   -2.32   -eab    1.32   ILKl   21.3    ILe    aLte                        .                .        .-2                    -2.31    LI.7I4.11
warnm                                      11.1    102.37  4.11   1119    61.3   I3.I1   6.    1.1   *.29                      LIP      Lii    L.3       1.16            IL4    11.21    31.4    IMU
tuistatL 3                                       3  LU      R4."    18.6    42.2*   12.11    LA        ma3e    NJ                 LU1    1.31   -2.10    3.a                11.114   24.64    ILK3    liii
-   OIL  Wm13                              1L45    21.46   444    6644    41.11   42.3    46.13    6L6          U1.8              1.10   1.3      2.69    6.3               19.14   1L21 9 2.24   2L1.4
WI 04193 mm1                               -2.34   -2.66    -4.3   -LW    -11.35  -1.341  -21.11  -11.12    -LI11               24.31    MI      alaB    LU                -I.E    -eL6    4L9       -3.23
PMi UT. 131im                               11.    24.42   VRIe      SL 2     MO3 3.3   3   3  LU      24       32.41             Lft   9LE    -IA         IL 13              1.32    26.2*    I44    19.91
NMm'sK                                      11.14    ILE     31.3    ILSI   ILU    115    27.29    21.41    N.E                    L.2     6.6      L31    tam               2.29    L.3      LS      1.4a
mn111i1  I SlE                             32.71    44.       9.49    DLdII 11.       16.3   Ild7   17.5  241.42                  LU       1.O     2.31    Lo               21.2     ILl!q   21.91   19.44
ff4311                                     24.44   17.01   O41.    1116   61.13    5.2S   18.12   39.3   244.3                   LU       Lu       1.31    LO               I3.3    34.24    23.34   aLES
TRW1 It *3*1    445 AN         9113 T   I93I31,  mIulim
16431 12W1L                                    12     "is6   2321    3643    2132    129        M=5    191    41221
caw                                          US44     M6      M6      2623    1321       M2       M       Me      -
isnomlif am                                  aM   jar  urn  SSW4  a4n   324   162    M   249
C132T1. MU                                   360     1191    3214    173    OR6    till    3213          MU1     9
la-re 15       c           3315              2       332      111    I   OXS   145     491    4114    6422    MU41
(511. 12311 1F.1L.                            lIlt?   63V3   23    3924   22196   212214   3112           =t      MU6
FEr1u134I11132                               223      666   26634   ICe       14417   1312    8466    12116   2243
ICNFT      1                              141      liii    1422    SW2    473        329     446      li1    2471
MICE3 =ICE6119016                              11     21       0?      91 41             1        3        2      44
9915     IC1D3333511111.                                              W 161".    1.9    11111Is1
(91 MICE1 Mt                             3L.2    44.62   6.6   121.26   91.46    U.N    6.31   5. 11   L2
113 SU                                      34.66    34.31  16.41   1631    61.24    6.11    6.1         43     112
BOOK EIEHI l-a                              211.1    IL.1   23.31   21.3121'.41 2   162    71.14
net  EumStS                                 4.64    21ll,  IL.1     0.91    3.11    322R    2.4
3130  firm .S  LI  ..    2.11   40.3    -LW                                            1.II    6.16
WI 1     215. i 16130L                          I 16.1    9.4.   21.92    21.3        LI       7.0
ilICIt lOll                                -2.1    -3.3    -1.3   -14.11  -11.44   -1.1    -4.9
LIM                                           21221.34         It       2'      Iit.
m1i9111 M         1C1K                        .      B.64    11.42    41.32   9.1.                                                                          LII
sita (ISlES                                   -    16.22   41,4.5  2111114  31.1                                                                           23.49
SIr. MS  fAL 3412333                          .       .24   FI.9   27.3   32.91                                                                            1.92
EL. 312611. 31 Eli                                   1.46  1I1L54  291.6  399.2                                                                            2L1.4
mmt                                                  L 424    LE1     3.11    1.2                         .                                                 1.3
3513313                                       .   FIL       el3tI   W9."  201364                                                                           31.75
1120                                          -      1.99   66.34,221.24  214.2                                                                            7.17
a                                 -   112~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.49  142.34  3212.1  =.21
h4ILTS                                      4.47    CO3                       3.11   246,6                       L.3                       La3     LI                                22.21    23.24
131513?                          2~~~~~~~~~~.12    6.91           21.22   26.44                       1.17                     I11I   12.12                              131.12   161.6
MM33                                        2.2    3.93                       4L6.3    4LU           .44                                   1 .612   ILE                             132.6   116.11
mmA                                         11.3    31.1                     241.   16.                          Lo                        1.I4    9.93                             1611   16.11
-f  SIW  F111  MRV11633a3.f  V  1N R                           S  O
.. t amUas 31519. aMram asm ivf VW 6I..
31.33,.KNM  13.34111045 a010233U. 631i 50P 1111121
-m a. 31



-30-
Wuw a_te, MWa mamm nu T                                                                           mm I
III aiss aSI Tl lunes                                                                  v  50
a                                   ru~~~~~~oIROa a rnemi                                                 F       
Kam   swTIm
m17    Ins          19m  II        Ms    ms 191 pi          1q     1"
WAN  OF FAVNS
ETtVSItM  IRNMIN NII           T n          17       M     ZM      MN    2TS1    2m21 u011    3181  2
IPUTS       IIstai s. Nas                  32    "if   2M          aUw      ai2M    12HI   sets    uNs   sue
sEt       m                                -is4       7 is   0      7i -DSI   saM   asia  1sea      tern      ma
NET FeCTE am                               419   -am       -ie     -isle    a        aM    -lant   -semi  -sas
IIuTEmST pansies                          -21t   -Ien    -si1e1   -e     -11s2a   -wI   -limb  -12sa    -azs
CaS T ACuiM  5 5                          -1N    -4S   -Mi  -12394   -403            es    3Sb7    -470   -327
AiNlE FaIw  aeosBi                         I5      204    1234    IIK        0       374     PI      10       ae
rFIC Ia,. 00 iL   seam. NT                  ai       _1, IET4    w1s          e        s     5 2 i s13    l [e   imn
esaus.05EI                                en      sen     11im    a3      se    8724  m3           9230   21411
WyAiS                                     507    410      41am    31l     3072    7911    IwM    730         =
SaF (WTI                                     -       -     -in      -aE7      a      13     a110    12am     -
am  CPITAL                                  91     4        250     23   -7014   -m4        -31M    -30    .1911
C5U   IN SEKS  1--asIMa                    -1s2    -1IU   -Le03    -u       4565   -4560    30A       10    -11"
SON  LETI                                     3      -        16      70       -                
CISI aI LOPl CliilTEITS
aIC e  . AM  bLT. LO
am                                       aeam   st1.0a  a.oa  1e21.a.0   33w.9   70.30
am
On'aa LTI                                1127.0     21 aa.   3     swo   ao3.6a  3.10
GBVEWIEIIT                     IV~~~~."    Wa.111"       67 1.60 :171.10  ZZLN
-,lEIs                                    ILIO  I.A           eLW    21101  n7.21   31.70
aUG a  FImE. IscTITifsa                  30.40  33.40  4794.3  731.3LX  P11.30  SMM
lT m IDI SDICE
URze ClT Immaism a_aae *ISI                 1II1laa.& SIl.LS s13uJ.e  M.u Il3r.7n                                                                        Ell_ nu
alow w PRaaus
owomS iN rLaz   laT                      475.0 UI   .78 01490tl 30U320       ,9 SaLw ue-w-
eLmC  Et BICElvs   eI  I                  92.00 132.0  7110  MA.N a7"4  92  ID                                                                           aMLe.3z, ims
m a  E--        Ea.a    w                                                                                                         r1L= a I, Ll.
;-a1C mar sans Is                   2L21  Zs2w     3.T  s5L24  Ln             31.57                                               sM                           mows  r
u-SE TomII CF "KMI  m  VINNTIErrS                                                                                                  SB IIF. SPCES                        71         11.39
I. IIITER   S e    OF Prum  m S          7.40  I3.I0   11.     14.00   14.35   13.es1                                            eKm raise                           :aU       .3s
L.L. MD.                                                                                                                       ES
o. MGE  SnhEW i m ums                     -    6.   w.a  cia  M.T0  LUO
IVI                                                                                                                         MA TL                              mm   101.0
IMFD ERCMIE
a.    LLD.1 _M AS. S 2                  10.20    9.0      LIS    5.74       35    4.30
FUILIC LO. AM 1.
h. 1i naT cam           a    sw          7.00    7.34    LZ       3.5    3.49    4.01
raLIC ae simenn
*,  aL ncin   sFO    s mam ot     s UN   MR4  aLIC ID7 m_. I1I.
... MT mIsIE swws;my   r aCmE M i  ii TS1L
SM       a OF NEIMI. aM, mN ST4FF rnn
aI  2a,1zw



- 31 -
ANNEX II
rage I or z
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1985)
Loan                                                              Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year      Borrower                Purpose              Cancellations   bursed
58 loans fully disbursed                   3,495.2
1553-5    1978      NAFINSA                 Agriculture               56.0          0.5
1643-5    1979      NAFINSA                 Small-scale Agri.         60.0          3.3
1706-5    1979      NAFINSA                 Irrigation                92.0         46.7
1712-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Industry                 175.0         31.8
1820-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Mining           40.0         18.9
1858-5    1980      NAFINSA                 Irrigation               160.0        147.9
1881-5    1981      NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Industry        100.0          1.5
1908      1981      NAFINSA                 Irrigation                23.0          4.6
1913      1981      BANOBRAS                Water Supply             125.0         72.7
1929      1981      BANOBRAS                Railways                 150.0         48.3
1945      1981      NAFINSA                 Rainfed Agriculture    264.6          104.3
1964      1981      BANPESCA                Port Development          10.0          6.5
1990      1981      BANOBRAS                Urban Development II   164.0          119.6
2042      1982      NAFINSA                 Technical Training        90.0          6.2
2043      1982      NAFINSA                 Integrated Rural
Development           175.0        111.9
2100      1982      NAFINSA                 Irrigation. Rehab II    65.0           61.7
2142      1982      NAFINSA                 Capital Goods
Industry              152.3        117.4
2154      1982      NAFINSA                 Pollution Control         60.0         49.4
2191      1983      NAFINSA                 San Fernando Agri.        48.4         41.8
2194      1983      BANOBRAS                Urban Engineering          9.2          6.3
2262      1983      NAFINSA                 Agri. Marketing          115.0         92.8
2281      1983      BANOBRAS                Third Water Supply       100.3         88.0
2325      1983      NAFINSA                 Third Small Medium
Industry              175.0        134.2
2331      1983      BANCOMEXT               Export Development       350.0        294.5
2428      1984      BANOBRAS                Highways                 200.0        164.4
2450      1984      BANPESCA                Ports                     76.3         76.1
2454      1984      NAFINSA                 Agricultural Credit    300.0           97.6
TOTAL                                           6,831.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank             1,365.7
Total now outstanding                            5,465.6
Amount sold                   92.3
of which has been repaid    92.3                     0.0
Total now held by Bank 2/                        5,465.6
Total undisbursed                                             1,948.9
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32-                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                                                     US$ Million
Year           Obligor                     Type of Business           Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. /1               Industrial Equipment          0.8    -        0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul             0.5    -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1            Twist Drills                   0.3    -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                            2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. /1                       Steel                         0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey  S.A. /1         Sodium Sulphate               0.7    -       0.7
1964/b6  Industria de  .ierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment           -       2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A. /1        Iron Ore Mining               1.5    -       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A./1        Textiles                     12.0    -      12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
P-riodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                   /2      /2      /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                       15.9    -      15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                       1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                        12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.         Pulp and Paper                10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                  19.0    -      19.0
1979/84  Cementos Tolteca, S.A. /3       Cement                       168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                          -       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    -           18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. /3  Particleboard                   25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                       Flat Glass                  114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3               Mining                      110.0    -    110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                  59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.  /3                      Agri-Business                11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     Metalsa, S.A.                   Motor Vehicles
and Accessories             3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility           Industrial Equipment        100.0    -    100.0
1985     Proteison                       Cotton Seed Flour              2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex /3                                                     16.4    -      16.4
Total Gross Commitments           -                         705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment,
and Sales                                                   540.4   22.1  562.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                           164.2   26.1  190.3
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                  150.9    6.5  157.4
--
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
IT    Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



-33 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
> I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: about one month
(b) Project prepared by: FIRA
{c) Preparation and Review Mission: March 1985
(d) Negotiations completed: May 30, 1985
Ce) Planned date of effectiveness: August 1985
IIl. Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a)  (i)  participating banks would lose their eligibility for
subproject participation where arrears of loans made by each
participating bank and discounted by FIRA are in excess of 15%;
(ii) the proceeds of the Bank loan would be transferred to FIRA
as equity; and (iii) the Government would provide the necessary
resources to offset FIRA's cash shortfall (para. 64);
(b) interest rates would conform to the rates stipulated in the
General Interest Rate Agreement (para. 73).



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Table 1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Chcuuerave Statemot of FEs's Coi laIated Financial Statemasrs (1979-1984)
chwo  Qew             Chw              awe
Frt            Fa               Fmr
1980    1980    1981   1981      1982   1982     1983    1983    1984 a/
ASSEIS
Investnets In Qoveramea
SBeuritIsP                   2,124     7C3   2,827  (1,720)  1,107   4.552   5,659   (4,025)   1,634
Lomn brtfollo
Short-erm                    9,126   7,870  16,996  14,860  31,856  21,381  53,237   43,675   96,912
Medinus- and Iog-Temn       34,530  11,716  46,246  11,9L0  58,156  27,989  86,145   41,030  127,175
43,656  19,586  63,242  26,770  90,012  49,370  139,382   84,705  224,087
Otber Assets                   5,280   4,102   9,382  (4,419)  4,963   1,116   6,079        583    6,662
Total Assets                51,060  24,391  75,451  20,631  96,082  55,038  151,120   81.263  232,383
Bank of ecko                  23,293  10,000  33,293  10,500  43,793  18,979  62,772   36,490   99,262
Federal Govermnent's redoisriouts  -       -       -        -       -  18,426  18,426   25,391   43,817
Bark Ios
IBDE                                 1,606   1,606   9,868  11,474  13,725  25,199   33,689   58,888
FBoreign CauercEal           3,490   8,314   11,804  31,531  43,335  21,294  64,629   21,748   86,377
Bark of MicoD - Special          -       -       -  14,000  14,000        -  14,000   (2,154)  11,846
Odier                            301     (22)    279      (21)    258  11,500  11,758  (11,542       216
3,791   9,898  13,689  55,378  69,067  46,519  115,586   41,741  157,327
Less: Governm.nt ()a ranteesb/                         44,298  44,298  40,862  85,160   60,105  145,265
11,080  24,769   5,657  30,426  (18,364)  12,062
Otber Liabilities              7,200   3,403  10,603  (3,150)  7,453   8,628  16,081   (4,435)  11,646
Total Liabilities           34,284  23,301  57,585  18,430  76,015  51,690 127,705   39,082  166,787
EQUITY C/                     16,776   1,090  17,866   2,201  20,067   3,348  23,415   42,181   65,596
Total Liabilities/Fquity    51,060  24,391  75,451  20,631  96,082  55,038 151,120   81,263  232,38
a/       .nadited.
hi   ~ verrmeat Cara:tees relate tO wmulnated foreign excharee losses on external flnancirg, wbich are
payable by tie GQwermnt.
c/       Armal diages acoprie: (a) profits for the year; axl (b) rew equity contributions ircludirg the
assuuptln of eaternal lialities.



- 35 -
wV
Ta1.P 2
AICJ1~URA r PR)fW
Prinaipal Indicator of FIRA's Operat4 uu, 1979-1984
OfexS$ aLni)
1979       1980       1981      1982        1983      1984 a/
1. Total Ases                         35,285     51,060     75,451    96,082    151,12D    232,383
2. IDa  Ebrtfolio at year en1         34,366      43,656    63,242    90,012    139,382    224,087
Short-term    s                  8751        9,126     16,996    31,856     53,237      96,912
M.iua- and Ion-TngEm las        25,615      34,530    46,246    58,156      86,145    127,175
3. Total Disaxmts Ding Year           26,659     36,439    46,238    70,890    122,668    224,488
Short-Texm                      12,566      17,430    25,973    42,128      82,586    154,151
1liur- ard Inag-Term            14,093      19,009    20,265    28,762      40,082      70,337
4. Nmber of Sub-iloa
Beeflricaries b/               267,038    424,200   510,718   457,585    603,046    796,163
W-IfLwome Producers             115,259    283,000   423,345   337,753    454,696    592,608
Otber Producers                151,779     141,200    87,373    119,832    148,350    203,555
5. Number of FIRA TeSdcal Staff          812        915      1,061      1,025      1,122       1,085
a/ lkau&ited.
L rluiidng both short- and lag-term lons .
Source: FIRA



- 36 -
AMNEX IV
Table 3
MEXICO
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FIRA Projected Cash Flow (1985 and 1986)
US$ million
1985                1986
Receipts
Recuperation of Discounts
Short-term Credit                                710                  763
Mediumr and Long-term Credit                      198                 199
908                 962
BANXICO (Net) a/                                     70                  56
FIRA VIII and Proposed Interim Loan b/              240                  90
Other Bank Credits and IDB                           70                  70
Net Interest cl                                      55                  75
1,343               1,253
Disbursements
Subloans Discounted
Short-term Credit                                894                  998
Medium- and Long-term Credit                      441                 470
1,335               1,468
Net Operating Expenses                               18                  22
1,353               1,490
Foreign Commercial Banks                             40                  4
IBRD                                                 30                 3tu
1,423               1,563
m_
Shortfall for Year                                   80                 310
Accumulated Shortfall b/                                                390
a/ BANXICO's financing is net of recuperation.
b/  Accumulated shortfall of US$390 million is after US$180 million from the
proposed loan and a balance of US$150 million from FIRA VIII.
c/ Net interest reflect the margin between interest income in subloans less
interest expenses on rediscounts and other liabilities.



- 37 -
w V
MOD
A~~1QLR1UR AL       BC
Total Invsbanut aprgra
Local  Fareiga  Total    local  Foreign  Total          Foreig as      E8rcitage
MeiLUm                       E  M1llion           Z Of Total    Of Base costs
Productive Investnt
Lw-Income Pmdu,tw         27072   17280  44352        141     90        231           39              49
~dium-Iucoas Producers  24000   15360   39360         125     80        205           39              41
Other Producers            5184   1920   7104          27     10         37          27               10
1UAL PRJE  OOST              56256   34560  90816        293    18D        473          38              100
Fnng Pl
(US$ NfUIIon)
EartidpatixigBardcs   FIRA        IB      Lending Program Sub-5arrower   Total Project
115$     1% US$    Z  US$    X    US$              Z    US$        Z    US$       z
Productive InVesnt
Law-Iie  Producers       21        9       97   42  90   39    8           9D     23       10      231    100
Medinan-Incom Produers  35        16       49   25  80   39    164          80     41       20      205    100
Other Producers          15       40        5    13  10   37       30       80      7       2X       37    100
4 TOM Ppza          CDR      71       15      151    3180    38    402          85    71        15      473    100
=         _       _      -   -            -        -    -



S30'                                  _ 
N      P  A
' 20'                                                                  ,       @ N)' 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'b                                                        Z tteOfce       A.rz
|  *     Agencies 
_             ~~~~~~.1
-       -. Inentoa.Butre 
,   IC A IF.
K LMEXICCS
0
l~~~~~~~~~~~w
Distribut~~io   ofFRAOfie
6  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~0.~~~~                       J  
m  StateOffice
D Istribu tionao l BounarOfies 
L  I          I   . I~ ~ ~~~~~   **~      S                  '
A   Keoa IOffEcERS
U  Stote Offices ~  110



IBRD-11789R2
1A4
F.11.2 .A-
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I .A&v.1['11;  _ 
-   PAIJAPA
Af,z,> .                                                                                                             ,,.I :  A
AL~~~~
ANW"'sU: '             ,             -             _            V                       tO.m,.
' ..'; r . .,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...-, ..7.-
* .    ..":.                                                                                                                      .
U. ,,-, '. -       ^      *sTAMPI, tU
er ;  ,.. F       -.' .*
*          .,r;  -- 1 ;  -t-* J s                              *hk
* *7\*-8%-AM+tELZ 
*/                                                         .*
'7   /roacutQ






