Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4754-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Pernambuco Integrated Development: Education Quality Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 27, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4754-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 2005, between the STATE OF PERNAMBUCO 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) 
 the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described 
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) have requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; 
(B) 
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the 
Bank (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the financial 
obligations of the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan); and 
(C) 
the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated July 15, 2003, 
describing a program designed to achieve an integrated development of the Borrower’s 
economic and social sectors (the Integrated Development Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such program; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the following modification (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: The text in Section 5.01 which reads: “(a) 
on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories: or (b)” is 
deleted in its entirety. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Basic Education” means the education provided through the 
Fundamental Education and Secondary Education; 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
scholarships and services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Eligible Municipal School” means a Municipal School which meets the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate in Part B.2 of the Project; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible State School” means a State School which meets the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual to participate in Part A.1 (c) of the Project; 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which commences 
January 1; 
 (h)
 
“FUNAI” means 
Fundação Nacional do Índio
,
the National Indian 
Foundation established b
y
the Guarantor’s Decree (
Decreto
)
No. 564, dated June 8, 1992 
pursuant to the Guarantor’s Law No. 5371, of December 5, 1967; 
 
(i) 
“Fundamental Education” means the education provided in Brazil from 
grades 1 through 8 (
ensino fundamental
), as described in Articles 21 and 32 of the 
Guarantor’s Law No. 9394, dated December 20, 1996; 
 
(j) 
“Grant” means the amount of non-reimbursable financing provided by the 
Borrower, to a School Subproject Implementation Entity, for implementation of a PME 
School Subproject; 
(k)
 
“Indigenous Peoples” means the indigenous peoples recognized as such 
by FUNAI as eligible to benefit from the constitutional and other legal protection as 
Page  4
-
3
-
indigenous peoples and including the 
Atikum, Fulni-
ô,
Kambiwá, Kapinawá, Pankararu, 
Pipipan, Tuxá, Pankará, Truká
 and 
Xukuru
;
(l)
 
“Indigenous Peoples and 
Quilombolas
 Action Plan” means the plan set 
forth in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated July 20, 2004; 
(m) 
“Indigenous School” means a school serving exclusively Indigenous 
Peoples’ students; 
 
(n) 
“Minimum Operational Standards” means the essential inputs needed for 
schools to function adequately and offer children the opportunity to learn, all as set forth 
in the Operational Manual; 
 
(o) 
“Model Municipality Cooperation Agreement” means the model(s) of 
Municipality Cooperation Agreement set forth in the Operational Manual; 
 
(p) 
“Model PME School Subproject Implementation Agreement” means the 
model(s) of School Subproject Implementation Agreement set forth in the Operational 
Manual; 
 
(q) 
“Municipal School” means a Fundamental Education school operated by 
a
municipality in the Borrower’s territory; 
 
(r) 
“Municipality Cooperation Agreement” means any of the Agreements 
referred to in section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“PCU” or “Project Coordination Unit” means the unit referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and established on December 29, 2003; 
 (u) 
“PDE” 
means 
Plano de Desenvolvimento Escolar
,
any of the plans for 
the improvement of a Fundamental Education school or a Secondary Education school, as 
the case may be, prepared by a School Subproject Implementation Entity; 
 
(v) 
“PDE Guidelines” means the guidelines for the implementation of PDEs 
in State Schools and Municipal Schools, issued by SEDUC on August 20, 2004, as such 
guidelines may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(w) 
“PDRE” means 
Plano Director da Reforma do Estado
,
the Borrower 
State Reform (Master) Plan presented to the Borrower’s legislature in January 2003; 
 
(x) 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in a letter from 
the Borrower to the Bank dated July 15, 2003 as amended on September 10, 2004; 
 
(y) 
“PME Guidelines” means the guidelines for the implementation of PME 
School Subprojects in State Schools and Municipal Schools, issued by SEDUC on 
August 20, 2004, as such guidelines may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the Bank; 
 
(z) 
“PME School Subproject” means 
Projeto de Melhoria da Escola, any
 
subproject for pedagogical and management improvement of a Fundamental Education 
school or a Secondary Education school to be carried out by a School Subproject 
Implementation Entity and consisting of, 
inter alia
,
the provision of goods, and in-service 
training and technical assistance to a school, which Subproject is eligible for financing in 
respect of goods, services and training in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement and the terms of the respective Subproject Implementation Agreement; 
 
(aa) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
September 9, 2004 covering the initial 12 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(bb) “
Quilombolas
”
means the communities of African descendants referred 
to in Transitory Article 68 of the Guarantor’s Constitution; 
(cc) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 (dd) 
“SAEPE” 
means 
Sistema de Avaliação da Educação do Estado de 
Pernambuco
,
the Borrower’s education evaluation system; 
 (ee) 
“SARE” 
means 
Secretaria de Administração e Reforma do Estado, 
the 
Borrower’s State Reform and Management Secretariat; 
 
(ff) 
“School Subproject Implementation Entity” means any state or municipal 
school with legal and financial autonomy which carries out a PME School Subproject; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(gg) 
“Secondary Education” means the education provided in Brazil from 
grades 9 through 11 (
ensino médio
), as described in Articles 21 and 35 of the Guarantor’s 
Law No. 9394, dated December 20, 1996; 
 (hh) 
“SEDUC” 
means 
Secretaria da Educação  e Cultura do Estado de 
Pernambuco, 
the Borrower’s education and culture secretariat; 
 (ii) 
“SEPLAN” 
means 
Secretaria de Planejamento
,
the Borrower’s Planning 
Secretariat; 
 
(jj) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in  Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
 
(kk) 
“Special Bidding Committee” means the committee referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and established on June 5, 2004; 
 
(ll) 
“State School” means a Fundamental Education or Secondary Education 
school operated by the Borrower; and 
 
(mm) 
“Subproject Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
 Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty-one 
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($31,500,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works, scholarships and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish after having received evidence that the Guarantor had authorized 
Page  7
-
6
-
such extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan subject to any waiver of a portion of 
such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
Page  8
-
7
-
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base 
Rate and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09.  The Secretary of Education and Culture of the Borrower and any 
person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out: 
 
(i) 
Parts A, B, C.2 and D of the Project through SEDUC; and 
(ii) 
Part C.1 of the Project through SARE and SEPLAN, 
Page  9
-
8
-
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational, 
economic, technical, administrative, financial, environmental and social practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall maintain, during the implementation of the Project, 
the Project Coordination Unit and a Special Bidding Committee with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, at all times headed by a Project coordinator and 
assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Bank.  
(c) 
The Borrower shall, through SEDUC, prior to submitting the Loan 
withdrawal application for the respective PME School Subproject, enter into an 
agreement with each School Subproject Implementation Entity, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, substantially in accordance with the terms of the 
Model PME School Subproject Implementation Agreement, setting forth, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the terms and conditions for the financing of the PME School Subprojects; and (ii) the 
obligation of the School Subproject Implementation Entity to carry out the PME School 
Subproject in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, the PDE 
Guidelines and PME Guidelines. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall, through SEDUC, prior to submitting the Loan 
withdrawal application for related expenditures under Part B.2 of the Project, enter into 
an agreement with each municipality with jurisdiction over the schools participating in 
Part B.2 of the Project and those serving 
Quilombola 
students, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, substantially in accordance with the terms of the 
Model Municipality Cooperation  Agreement, setting forth, 
inter alia
,
the municipality’s 
obligation: (i) to propose the Municipal Schools that could participate in the Project; and 
(ii) to cooperate in the execution of the activities included therein in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operational Manual. 
(e) 
The Borrower shall: (i) not later than twenty-four months from the 
Effective Date, start the construction of Indigenous Schools, mentioned in the Indigenous 
Peoples and 
Quilombolas 
Action Plan, in accordance with the  environmental guidelines 
applicable to school construction in rural areas set forth in the Guarantor’s document, 
issued by its Minister of Education and Culture, and entitled “
Subsidios para a 
Elaboração de Projetos e Adequação de Edificações Escolares, MEC/Fundescola 2002
”; 
and (ii) ensure that the contractors hired to construct such schools abide by the 
environmental requirements of such guidelines, and that all works are finalized not later 
than forty-two months after the Effective Date. 
 (f) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
each of the Subproject Implementation Agreements and Municipality Cooperation 
Page  10
-
9
-
Agreements, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to 
enforce any  Subproject Implementation Agreement or Municipality Cooperation 
Agreement. 
(g) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) the Performance Indicators; 
and (ii) the Indigenous Peoples and 
Quilombolas
 Action Plan. 
(h) 
The Borrower shall, through SEDUC, enter into agreements or make 
other institutional arrangements with the Guarantor’s agencies concerned with 
Indigenous Peoples and 
Quilombolas
 as needed for the implementation of the Indigenous 
Peoples and 
Quilombolas
 Action Plan. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  The Borrower shall 
update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding 
Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the procurement, financial and environmental requirements thereof); 
(b) 
the criteria for the approval, implementation and monitoring of PME 
School Subprojects and for the financing of the related Grants; and 
(c) 
a model agreement: (i) for implementation of PME School Subprojects; 
and (ii) for municipal cooperation in the PME School Subprojects carried out in Municipal 
Schools. 
 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of 
this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
Page  11
-
10
-
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than twelve months after the Effective Date and yearly thereafter during 
the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
(i)  
review with the Bank, within no more than two months after each 
such reports’ preparation, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section and progress in the implementation of the 
Integrated Development Program; and 
(ii) 
thereafter take all measures, as needed,
 
to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Bank's and the Borrower’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  12
-
11
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the Effective Date 
falls, to and including the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account is made, have the  financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section  for each fiscal year, 
or other period agreed to by the Bank, audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year, or such other period agreed to by the Bank, as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  
in  scope and  detail  satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
 (i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such  reports and statements of expenditures are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year, or other period agreed 
to by the Bank, referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
Page  13
-
12
-
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual; and 
 (b) 
that SEDUC’s financial management system has been established in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank and is able to generate financial, monitoring and 
procurement reports. 
Section 5.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Loan has been duly registered by 
the Borrower’s Central Bank. 
Page  14
-
13
-
Section 5.03. The date September 26, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Secretary 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaria da Fazenda do Estado de Pernambuco 
 
Rua do Imperador, S/N 
 
Santo Antonio/Recife/PE 
 
CEP 50 010 
–
020 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  (81) 2126 6705 
 
With copy to: 
 
Secretaria da Educação e Cultura do Estado de Pernambuco 
 
Rua Siqueira Campos, 304 
 
50010-010 Recife- Pernambuco 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:   55-81-2122 6393 
2122 6348 
 
SARE 
 
Rua Dona Maria Cesar, 68 
 
50030-140 Recife – PE 
 
Facsímile 55-81-3424-2795 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Secretaria do Planejamento do Estado de Pernambuco 
Rua da Moeda, 46 
50030-040 Recife-PE 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile:  55-81-3224-7061 
 
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco “K” - 5º Andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsímile: 55 61 225-4022 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United Sates of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO 
 
By /s/ Jarbas de Andrade Vasconcelos 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
 
(Expressed in 
% of Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Works (other than for PME 
7,600,000 
60% 
 
School Subprojects and construction 
 
of Indigenous Schools) 
 
 
 
(2)  Goods (other than for PME 
5,800,000 
60% 
 School 
Subprojects) 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services (including 
2,400,000 
60% 
 
audits) (other than for PME 
 School 
Subprojects) 
 
(4)  Training and scholarships  
10,200,000 
60% 
 
(other than for PME School 
 Subprojects) 
 
(5)  PME School Subprojects 
4,500,000 
65% of the cost 
 
of
goods, and services 
 
(including training) 
 
financed by a Grant 
 
(6)  Front-End Fee 
157,500 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
842,500
TOTAL 31,500,000
Page  18
-
17
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule 
the term “training and scholarships” means 
expenditures incurred in connection with the provision of training and/or scholarships, as 
the case may be, under Parts A, B, and C of the Project, including the reasonable travel 
cost and per-diem of the trainees. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $6,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months before that 
date.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works, scholarships and services, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
Page  19
-
18
-
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required 
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting 
expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  20
-
19
-
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this
 Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$2,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Page  22
-
21
-
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the quality, efficiency and 
inclusiveness of the Borrower’s education system; (b) modernize and strengthen the 
managerial, financial and administrative capacity of SEDUC to set policies and 
guidelines for the education sector and deliver public education efficiently; and (c) 
support the Borrower’s education sector modernization effort. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Improvement of the Quality and Efficiency of the Borrower’s Basic Education 
Schools
1. School 
Autonomy
(a) 
Provision of management training to directors and other administrative 
staff of State Schools; 
(b) 
provision of technical assistance and training for preparation of PDEs in 
State Schools; and 
(c) 
Carrying out of PME School Subprojects in Eligible State Schools. 
2. 
Minimum Operational Standards
Provision of equipment, educational materials and minor school reconstruction 
for Basic Education schools and Indigenous Schools, and in selected cases, computer 
laboratories, all as needed by such schools to meet the Minimum Operational Standards. 
3. Teachers’ 
Qualifications
Carrying out of a program of pre-service training of teachers (including 
scholarships) on the Borrower’s revised curricula, as needed to address the shortage of 
teachers in grades 5 through 8 of Fundamental Education and in Secondary Education. 
Page  25
-
24
-
Part B
:
Improvement of the Efficiency, Effectiveness and Inclusiveness of the Education 
System in the Borrower’s Territory
1. 
Educational Policies and Performances
(a) 
Carrying out of studies designed to improve the formulation and 
implementation of the Borrower’s education policies including, 
inter alia
,
studies to 
define: 
(i) 
curricula and education materials, including educational 
software; 
(ii) 
school certification and standards; and 
(iii) 
strategies to strengthen teacher training colleges in 
municipalities and provision of scholarships related thereto. 
(b) 
Consolidation of SAEPE and dissemination to schools and stakeholders 
of the evaluation results. 
(c) 
Improvement of the Borrower’s information systems covering education 
statistics, school enrollment, school census, and other education management tools. 
2. 
Strengthening of the Quality and Inclusiveness of the Education Programs carried 
out in the Borrower’s Territory
Carrying out of a program to improve the quality of education, reduce age-grade 
distortions, and diminish youth idleness and involvement in anti-social activities in 
Eligible Municipal Schools, such program to include, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
strengthening and expansion of accelerated classes for overage students 
attending grades 1 to 8 of Fundamental Education; 
(b) 
in-service training to all teachers of grades 1 and 2 in all State Schools 
and selected Municipal Schools; 
(c) 
job-skills and other educational training for youth at risk; and 
(d) 
preparation and implementation of PDEs and PME School Subprojects in 
selected Municipal Schools, and in all schools with 
Quilombola
 students. 
Page  26
-
25
-
Part C
:
State Reform
1. 
Implementation of the PDRE, including, 
inter alia:
 
(a) 
carrying out of a management modernization program in SEDUC; 
(b) 
the creation of a customer relations office at SEDUC (
Ouvidoria
)
serving 
education stakeholders; 
(c) 
e-government development and implementation; 
(d) 
strengthening of SEDUC’s capacity in education management through 
training; 
(e) 
development of a human resource policy for SEDUC’s employees; and 
(f) 
collection and processing of social indicators data, and development and 
implementation of models for monitoring and evaluation of public policies and 
expenditures, in particular as related to education. 
2. 
Modernization of Education Management
(a) 
Carrying out of selected measures (including training and scholarships) 
proposed as a result of the activities carried out under Part C.1 of the Project in the 
following areas: 
(i) human 
resources; 
(ii) financial 
management; 
(iii) planning; 
(iv) technology; 
and 
(v) 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the education sector 
activities. 
Page  27
-
26
-
(b) 
Provision of technical (including legal) assistance for the reorganization 
of SEDUC to ensure more efficient service delivery and foster other management 
improvements. 
Part D
:
Project Management
Establishment and operation of the PCU. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2009. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
beginning May 15, 2010 
 
1,315,000 
 
through May 15, 2021 
 
1,315,000 
 
on November 15, 2021 
 
1,255,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as 
provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works, and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,” dated May, 2004 (the Procurement 
Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers,” dated May, 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the meanings 
ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case 
may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the  Guarantor. 
 B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 350,000 and 
works estimated to cost less than $ 5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following 
additional provisions:  
(a) 
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price, and whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
Page  30
-
29
-
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall 
be disclosed in the invitation to bid; 
(b) 
whenever required by the Bank during revisions of the Procurement 
Plan, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three consecutive days in a 
newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil; 
(c) 
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures 
(
consórcios
)
of
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case; 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
(e) 
there shall not be, without the Bank’s prior approval, issuance of any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of works or goods (and related services), as the case may be, without any change 
in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of such contract. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
and works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping, including as a form of such shopping 
in respect of goods, the electronic bidding (
pregão eletrônico
)
procurement system set 
forth in the Guarantor’s Law No. 10.520 of July 17, 2002. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
4. Community 
Participation
.
(a) 
Goods and services required for PME school subprojects may be 
procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in the Operational Manual.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through SEDUC, carry out or cause to be carried out 
yearly procurement reviews of the goods and services procured by School Subproject 
Implementation Entities.  
Page  31
-
30
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality-and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.  
Individual Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.   
 
