                            Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                              Report No: AC146
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 09/13/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: BRAZIL                                             Project ID: P069934
Project: PERNAMBUCO INTEGRATED                              Task Team Leader: Andrea C. Guedes
DEVELOPMENT: EDUCATION QUALITY
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: July 9, 2003                   IBRD Amount ($m): 31.50
Bank Approval: October 14, 2004                             IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSHE                                        Sector: Primary education (80%); Secondary
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)          education (20%)
Status: Lending                                             Theme: Education for all (P); Decentralization (S)


I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The development objectives of the Pernambuco Integrated Development: Education Quality Improvement
Project are to (a) improve the quality, efficiency, and inclusiveness of the public education system; (b)
modernize and strengthen the managerial, financial, and administrative capacity of the Secretariat of
Education to set policies and guidelines for the sector and deliver public education efficiently; and (c)
support the overall state modernization effort through interventions to be carried out in the Secretariat of
Education and to be replicated in other state institutions.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
Component 1. Improving Quality and Efficiency of the State Schools (US$28.6 million or 54.5 percent
of total project cost without contingencies). This component seeks to improve the quality and efficiency of
the 1,086 state schools in Pernambuco through the following subcomponents.

1.1      Strengthening School Autonomy Subcomponent (US$7.3 million or 13.9 percent of total project
cost without contingencies). This subcomponent seeks to increase school efficiency and accountability by
giving the school community more autonomy and responsibility in managing their schools. In addition, it
seeks to make schools more inclusive and culturally relevant to their students, particularly in the case of
Indigenous schools /1, by giving them the autonomy to diagnose their own situation and address
deficiencies. This would be achieved through: (i) providing management training to school directors and
other school administrative staff; (ii) supporting the preparation of the PDEs, in which schools diagnose
their problems and outline strategies to address those problems; and (iii) transferring funds directly to
schools to finance school subprojects (PMEs). School subprojects include, but are not restricted to,
in-service training for teachers, activities that promote inclusion of children with disabilities, minor
infrastructure improvements, equipment, library books, and didactic materials. As part of the PDEs,
whenever appropriate, schools would be asked to include a strategy for inclusion of students with special
needs. The project's Operational Manual will include the procedures for the selection of PDEs/PMEs.
Municipal Secretariats of Education will have autonomy to select the "winning" PMEs for municipal
schools, according to the guidelines prepared by SEDUC.

1.2      Ensuring Minimum Operational Standards at Schools Subcomponent (US$20.9 million or
39.8 percent of total project cost without contingencies). This subcomponent seeks to ensure that State

                                                        2
                                                                                                         ISDS


schools, including those serving Indigenous communities, meet the minimum operational standards in terms
of their infrastructure and inputs.     SEDUC has defined basic operational standards in terms of the
minimum inputs required in a classroom for students to learn, according to its needs and financial capacity.
The model consists of a predetermined set of essential inputs such as library books and students materials,
school furniture such as desks, chairs, and shelves, and physical facilities, ensuring access to disabled
students, safety factors, and sanitary facilities. It should be noted, however, that the project will only
finance rehabilitation of existing schools. This subcomponent will also finance computer laboratories to
state schools that have already the physical facilities in place --financed by Alvorada resources-- but that
have not yet received the equipment.        Additionally, only schools that met the minimum operational
standards, have more than 500 student, and serve grades 5th and above would receive computers. Finally,
this subcomponent will finance educational materials for the 16 regional centers for students with
disabilities. In addition to activities financed by the project, SEDUC has assumed responsibility building
new indigenous schools to serve communities that still lack them.

1.3      Improving Teachers Qualifications Subcomponent (US$0.4 million or 0.8 percent of total
project cost without contingencies). This subcomponent will support a pilot pre-service teacher training
under the revised curricula which, in turn, aims to improve the quality of the State public schools and to
address the shortage of teachers in grades 5 through 8 and in secondary education. Once the new curricula
is in place, financing will be provided for higher education training for 300 State teachers who do not have
a tertiary degree. While ensuring this level of qualification for teachers is particularly important given the
expected growth in enrollment in the upper grades of the fundamental cycle, the project will support such
effort on a pilot basis to ensure the new curricula is adequate and the investment yields positive results in
terms of student learning. Training specialization will be offered in subject areas identified by SEDUC as
areas with a shortage of teachers, and will take into consideration demand projections resulting from
enrollment simulations carried out in the first year of project implementation.

Component 2. Improving System Efficiency and Effectiveness and Expanding Inclusion (US$15.4
million or 29.3 percent of total project cost without contingencies). This component aims to improve
education policy for the entire system and to support programs targeted to areas of special concern such as
less than satisfactory teaching performance, high repetition rates, large age-grade distortions, the need to
consolidate a culture of evaluation, and the lack of inclusion of children with disabilities in the education
system. This will be achieved through the following subcomponents.

2.1      Enhancing Educational Policies and Performance Subcomponent (US$0.4 million or 0.7
percent of total project cost without contingencies). This subcomponent seeks to improve the formulation
and implementation of education policies that have an impact on the entire education system, including the
State, Municipal, and private schools, through the following activities: (a) definition of (i) policies for
curricula development and education materials, including educational software, (ii) policies for school
certification and standards; and (iii) strategy to strengthen Municipal Teacher Training Colleges; (b)
consolidation of the SAEPE and dissemination of results to schools and stakeholders; and (c) improvements
in information systems covering education statistics, school enrollment, school census, and other education
management tools.

2.2      Supporting Education Programs to Increase Quality and Inclusion Subcomponent (US$15.0
million or 28.6 percent of project cost without contingencies). This subcomponent seeks to improve the
quality of education in municipal schools with the worst performance on SAEPE, reduce age-grade
distortions at the fundamental level, and diminish youth idleness and involvement in anti-social activities
through the following activities: (i) support for and expansion of accelerated classes program for overage

                                                               3
                                                                                                                        ISDS


students attending for 1st - 4th and 5th - 8th; (ii) provision of in-service teacher training to 1st ­ 4th grade
teachers in all State schools and 1st to 4th grade municipal teachers from the 500 schools with worst
performance in the 2002 SAEPE; (iii) a program targeting youth to be implemented by Non-Governmental
Organizations (Organizações Não-Governamentais -- NGOs) in schools identified as "high risk" due to
high incidence of problems with violence, drugs, teen pregnancy, and illicit activities; and (iv) support for
the preparation and implementation of PDEs and PMEs in municipal schools with the worst performance in
the SAEPE, including schools identified as those primarily serving Quilombola communities (about 30 in
all). Such PMEs will include subprojects that address the needs of children with disabilities and/or
promote their inclusion in the municipal schools.

Component 3. Supporting the State Reform (US$4.8 million or 9.1 percent of total project cost without
contingencies). This component promotes the State reforms aimed at improving efficiency in delivering
public services through two subcomponents, one that addresses broader public sector issues such as
supporting the development of public administration models and procedures according to the PDRE, and a
second subcomponent that focuses on the introduction of the aforementioned models and procedures into
the education sector.

3.1       Supporting the Implementation of the State Reform Subcomponent (US$1.6 million or 3
percent of total project cost without contingencies). The objective of this subcomponent is to support the
implementation of reforms recommended in the PDRE through the development of public administration
models and procedures, which would then be piloted at SEDUC, thereby improving effectiveness,
efficiency, and quality of education. By doing that, SEDUC will pioneer the implementation of the PDRE,
serving as a case study in the development of procedures that could be applied to other Secretariats and
public institutions in Pernambuco. This subcomponent comprises six key activities: (i) implementation of
the management modernization program; (ii) creation of an effective customer relations office at SEDUC (
Ouvidoria) serving education stakeholders; (iii) implementation of e-government; (iv) development of
SEDUC's managerial capacity through the Government School (Escola de Governo); (v) development of a
human resources policy for SEDUC's State employees; and (vi) collection and processing of social
indicators data, and development and implmeentation of models for monitoring and evaluation of public
policies and expenditures, in particular as related to education.

3.2       Strengthening and Modernizing Education Management Subcomponent (US$3.2 million or 6.1
percent of total project cost without contingencies). This subcomponent seeks to modernize SEDUC by
introducing changes recommended in the PDRE and development under the previous subcomponent, in the
following areas: (a) human resources, (b) financial management, (c) planning, (d) technology, and (e)
supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the education sector activities. Technical assistance will be
provided to support the reorganization of the SEDUC, including the introduction of management
improvements to ensure more efficient service delivery, and legal and organizational measures to make
possible the implementation of the reforms.

Component 4.         Project Management (US$2.3 million or 4.5 percent of total project cost without
contingencies). This component will finance the management of the project and, at the same time support
the strengthening of SEDUC through the provision of technical assistance and consultant services to
implement the project and to adapt SEDUC to better integrate and gradually absorb project functions.

/1 Schools serving the Quilombola communities are under the responsibility of the municipal governments. As such, they will
receive financing to carry out similar activities under the second component of this project, which supports the development
and implementation of education policies in the whole state of Pernambuco, in all education networks.

                                                        4
                                                                                                           ISDS


I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Schools throughout the state of Pernambuco will be involved in the project.



B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)

Comments: No new construction will be financed under the project, but there will be rehabilitation of existing
schools to upgrade facilities. Given this, the proposed project will use the guidelines for school repair and
renovation for small rural schools prepared by the FUNDESCOLA project, "Subsídios para a Elaboração
de Projetos e Adequação de Edificações Escolares" (MEC/Fundescola 2002). These guidelines were
reviewed and approved by the Bank. Such guidelines will be included in contractor bidding documents.
Furthermore the Government will also follow the Secretariat of Education's own construction
guidelines.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                      Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          Yes     No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  Yes     No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   Yes     No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     Yes     No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 Yes     No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  Yes     No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         Yes     No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                             Yes     No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  Yes     No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       Yes     No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The Indigenous Peoples safeguard policy is triggered. See below for further details.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)

                                                       5
                                                                                                            ISDS


Not applicable.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The project responds to the recommendations listed in the IPDP. Particularly, indigenous and Quilombola
communities will directly benefit from the project as it will finance: (i) rehabilitation of existing indigenous
schools; (ii) culturally appropriate pedagogical materials, in addition to regular pedagogical materials; (iii)
training for indigenous teachers; (iv) training for School Council members so they can run their schools in a
more autonomous manner, including prepare PDEs and PMEs; (v) support for these schools to prepare
their own development plan and, subsequently, school subprojects; and (vi) financing for all school
subprojects (PMEs) for indigenous schools and schools attended by Quilombola students.


II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The Social Assessment, composed of four pillars (social and stakeholer analysis, institutional analysis for
social development objectives, stakeholders participation and monitoring and evaluation), has already
undertaken several preliminary steps, including consulting indigenous and Quilombola's teachers, parents
and students. A qualitative survey has also been carried out with students in several urban, indigenous and
Quilombola schools. An assessment of rural schools in other Northeast States (Maranhão and Paraíba)
has indicated an uncritical vision from teachers and an excessively critical vision from parents regarding
the schools they work and their children go. Classroom observations and consultations with similar groups
in Pernambuco were carried out, confirming similar results.

Implementation. Given the innovative institutional approach being proposed --delegating School Councils
the responsibility of preparing their School Development Plans (PDEs) and proposing strategies to address
identified problems (PMEs), parents, teachers, students and communities will have a voice on how schools
are run. Moreover, schools should become what they are missing now, an instrument for family and
community development.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
          management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
          technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
          projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
          issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                          Expected           Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive

                                                     6
                                                                                                     ISDS


Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                              12/4/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          9/1/2003        9/1/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           8/27/2003       8/27/2003

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Andrea C. Guedes                                   August, 18, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Maria-Valeria Pena/Person/World Bank               December 4, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Shelton H. Davis                                        August 26, 2003
Sector Director                       Ana-Maria Arriagada                                July 3, 2003

