                                  Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                Report No: AB119

Project Name                     BRAZIL - PERNAMBUCO INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT: EDUCATION
                                 QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Primary education (80%); Secondary education (20%)
Theme                            Education for all (P); Decentralization (S)
Project                          P069934
Borrower(s)                      PERNAMBUCO STATE GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency(ies)         STATE BASIC EDUCATION SECRETARIAT
                                 Address:
                                 Rua Siqueira Campos, 304
                                 50010-010 Recife - Pernambuco

                                 Contact Person: Mozart Neves, Secretary of Education
                                 Tel: (81) 3224-3333         Fax: (81) 3423-7285          Email:
                                 mozartnr@educacao.pe.gov.br


                                 Secretariat of Administration and State Reform (SARE)

                                 Address:
                                 Rua Dona Maria Cesar, 68
                                 50030-140 Recife - PE

                                 Contact Person: Maurício Costa Romão, Secretary of Administration and State
                                 Reform
                                 Tel: (81) 3224-9389         Fax: (81) 3424-2795          Email:
                                 mromao@fisepe.pe.gov.br


                                 Secretariat of Planning

                                 Address:
                                 Rua da Moeda, 46
                                 50030-040 Recife - PE

                                 Contact Person: Raul Henry, Secretary of Planning
                                 Tel: (81) 3224-4097         Fax: (81) 3224-7061          Email:
                                 spgab@fisepe.pe.gov.br
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                July 19, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date              July 9, 2003
Bank Approval Date               October 14, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
Overview

Pernambuco, with its 7.9 million inhabitants spread across 184 municipalities, is the most urbanized state
of the Northeast with 42 percent of the population living around its capital, Recife. Pernambuco's GDP per

                                                        2
                                                                                                           PID


capita is R$ 3,279, above the Northeast average of R$ 2,671 and below the national average R$ 5,740.
Pernambuco is characterized by a highly unequal income distribution: 54 percent of the population earn
monthly salaries two times or less the minimum wage while only 1.03 percent earn more than 20 times or
more the minimum wage.

Similar to other states in Brazil, Pernambuco's education system comprises the Municipal and State
systems, as well as private schools. According to the 2001 School Census, there are about 2.7 million
students in Pernambuco enrolled in 11,970 schools at the different levels in the three systems. The state
system covers 34.7 percent of all the students and 8.3 percent of all the schools. Municipal students
represent almost half of all students and 70 percent of the schools. Private schools serve approximately 16
percent of the students and operate about 21 percent of all the schools in Pernambuco. Schools located in
rural areas account for 57 percent of all schools and 19 percent of enrollment.

At the state level, the Secretariat of Education (Secretaria de Educação e Cultura -- SEDUC) is the
government body responsible for managing the education system and its 1,086 schools (97 of them
indigenous), and delivering education to 942,878 students. The SEDUC is organized into 17 Regional
Management Offices (Gerências Regionais de Educação -- GRE), which provide support and guidance to
the schools.

Sector Issues

Deficient public sector administration. Pernambuco's public administration is characterized by the low
quality of public services, lack of accountability, and a tight fiscal situation. In the education sector, the
heavy administrative structure of the SEDUC prevents the efficient and effective delivery of quality
education.

Coverage and exclusion. Education coverage at the fundamental level is still not universal in Pernambuco
-- 90.1 percent and below the national level of 94.3 percent -- as there are approximately 180,000 children
aged 7 to 14 outside of the school system. Another dimension of education exclusion in Pernambuco is the
large number of adolescents and young adults who are not enrolled in school, not participating in the labor
market, and who have limited if any job-skills because they dropped out of school before completing the
fundamental cycle. In 2002 12.4 percent of the population aged 15 to 17 were outside of the school
system.

High repetition and age-grade distortion. While net enrollment rates in Pernambuco have increased steadily
in the last five years reaching 90.1 percent at the fundamental level, education indicators show a system
that is plagued with age-grade distortions.

Low student achievement level and inadequate teacher qualifications and skills. The performance of
Pernambuco students as measured by the SAEB tests applied to a sample of 4th, 8th, and 11th graders in
1995, 1997, 1999, and 2001 has been close to the Northeast average and below the national one. One of
the contributing factors to the poor student performance in Pernambuco is the low qualifications and
inadequate skills of the teachers.

Inadequate infrastructure. It is estimated that about 40 percent of school infrastructure in Pernambuco is
inadequate, with some schools operating in rented buildings and most without adequate furnishing and
equipment.    The schools serving Quilombo and Indigenous communities not only tend to have poor
infrastructure and also lack electricity, clean water, and bathrooms.

                                                       3
                                                                                                          PID


Inadequate coordination between the State and the Municipalities. The education sector in Pernambuco
also suffers from inadequate coordination between the State and the Municipalities. Despite the National
Education Law in 1996 (Lei de Diretrizes e Bases da Education National -- LDB), which specifies roles
and responsibilities in the delivery of education for each level of government, the distribution of education
functions and responsibilities among sub-national levels of government is still quite variable across the
different systems in most of Brazil.

Poverty related factors. Pernambuco has the second highest incidence of absolute poverty in the Northeast,
with almost 2.6 million people living in poverty. While education efforts in Pernambuco have yielded
positive results in terms of increasing access and reducing illiteracy, recent studies show that the poorest
segments of the population tend to have the worst education performance.

Government's Strategy

Recognizing a tight fiscal situation and the low quality of public services, the State Administration has
pursued an ambitious state reform agenda since the beginning of its first term in 1999, calling for bold
measures to contain the cost of government services and improve their efficiency. The vision and priorities
of the State Reform are expressed in the Master Plan for the State Reform (Plano Diretor da Reforma do
Estado -- PDRE) of January, 2000. The PDRE comprises a series of policy and administrative measures
to increase managerial flexibility, while attempting to strengthen accountability.

The first-round reforms (1999-2002) resulted in some but not much concrete progress.                Thus, in
preparation for its second term (2003-2006), the Government renewed its earlier focus on the state reform,
the substance of which was summarized in the document Restructuring and Modernization of the State
Apparatus. The new proposal continued to base its fundamental rationale on the need to achieve greater
economy and efficiency and quality of public services.         However, this time the Government clearly
identified social inclusion and human development as the overall goal of the reform.

Since August 2002, the Bank intensified its dialogue with the State of Pernambuco. A series of meetings
were held to discuss the state's overall development challenges and policy priorities. These culminated in a
workshop in November where four strategic priorities were identified as bases for the next PPA, which the
Government is currently preparing with Bank financial and analytical support. The four priority areas
identified through this dialogue are (i) enhance economic dynamism, especially of small and medium-sized
economic agents; (ii) improve living conditions (habitabilidade), especially low-income families' access to
quality of water and sanitation services; (iii) social inclusion, especially of the youth at risk; and (iv)
strengthening of governance and management of essential public services, especially education, health, and
public safety.

In the education sector, SEDUC prepared a 10 year education strategy (Plano Estadual de Educação,
2000-2009 -- PEE) at the beginning of this administration's first term (1999-2002). The plan identified two
priority areas: (i) improving quality of education through establishing a statewide student assessment
system, providing school inputs, and adopting strategies to reduce student dropout rates; and (ii) reducing
system-wide inefficiencies by modernizing SEDUC's own structure so it functions better under a
decentralized school model, adopting accelerated programs to reduce age-grade distortions thereby reducing
future bottlenecks in the system, improving coordination and quality assurance in the Municipal school
systems, and promoting school leadership and autonomy.

Although SEDUC has launched several initiatives that are important for improving education in
Pernambuco, it has not carried out significant structural reforms that would have a long-term impact in

                                                        4
                                                                                                           PID


service delivery in the education sector. Funds from the privatization of State enterprises allowed SEDUC
to make the most urgent investments in the sector but the necessary administrative reforms were postponed,
although they were contemplated in the PDRE and the PEE. Thus, one of the important current challenges
for SEDUC is to move toward an administrative model that is leaner and more consistent with statewide
modernization, decentralization, and deconcentration.        In this respect, SEDUC is working in close
collaboration with SARE and the Secretariats of Finance (Secretaria da Fazenda -- SEFAZ), and Planning
(Secretaria do Planejamento -- SP), to define the strategy for modernizing its internal structure and make
it more responsive to the needs of the schools.

2. Objectives
The overall objective for World Bank's work in the state of Pernambuco is to support the Government's
agenda of ensuring social inclusion and promoting human development as the backbone for its policies.

The development objective of the Pernambuco Development and Education Quality Project is to (a)
improve the quality, efficiency, and inclusiveness of the public education system; (b) modernize and
strengthen the managerial, financial, and administrative capacity of the Secretariat of Education to set
policies and guidelines for the sector and deliver public education efficiently; and (c) support the overall
state modernization effort.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
International Knowledge. The Bank is a well-known repository for international knowledge because of
its active involvement in development programs, its extensive contacts with research organizations, and its
experience working with a wide range of governments, sectors, and local communities. In addition to
providing financial resources to its clients, the Bank brings together global knowledge and experience,
neutrality and objectivity. It facilitates communication among key actors within and among countries.

National and Regional Experience. As the chief external financing institution for the Brazilian basic
education sector, over a decade, the Bank has amassed solid knowledge on national and regional education
issues and assimilated a diversified understanding of cultural and political idiosyncrasies in the country.

Partnership and Cooperation. The Bank is able to function as a inter- and intra-national catalyst and
broker by bringing various actors in Government to the table, and stimulating the exchange of information
by bringing together representatives from different levels of Government, NGOs, and private organizations.
In this capacity, the Bank is able to foster policy dialogue and cooperation across groups that often have
opposing views.

4. Description
Component 1. Improving Quality and Efficiency of the State Schools. This component seeks to improve
the quality and efficiency of the 1,086 state schools in Pernambuco through the following subcomponents.

1.1      Strengthening School Autonomy Subcomponent. This subcomponent seeks to increase school
efficiency and accountability by giving the school community more autonomy and responsibility in
managing their schools.      In addition, it seeks to make schools more inclusive and culturally relevant to
their students, particularly in the case of Indigenous schools, by giving them the autonomy to diagnose their
own situation and address deficiencies.

1.2      Ensuring Minimum Operational Standards at Schools Subcomponent. This subcomponent
seeks to ensure that State schools, including those serving Indigenous communities, meet the minimum
operational standards in terms of their infrastructure and inputs. SEDUC has defined basic operational

                                                        5
                                                                                                         PID


standards in terms of the minimum inputs required in a classroom for students to learn, according to its
needs and financial capacity. The model consists of a predetermined set of essential inputs such as library
books and students materials, school furniture such as desks, chairs, and shelves, and physical facilities
such as sound school buildings, safety factors, and sanitary facilities.

1.3      Improving Teachers Qualifications Subcomponent. This subcomponent will support a pilot
pre-service teacher training under the revised curricula which, in turn, aims to improve the quality of the
State public schools and to address the shortage of teachers in grades 5 through 8 and in secondary
education. Financing will be provided for higher education training for 300 State teachers who do not have
a tertiary degree. Training specialization will be offered in subject areas identified by SEDUC as areas
where there is a shortage of teachers, and would take into consideration demand projections resulting from
enrollment simulations carried out in the first year of project implementation.

Component 2.      Improving System Efficiency and Effectiveness and Expanding Inclusion.               This
component aims to improve education policy for the entire system and to support programs targeted to
areas of special concern such as less than satisfactory teaching performance, high repetition rates, large
age-grade distortions, the need to consolidate a culture of evaluation and to create incentives for
improvement in Municipal education. This will be achieved through the following subcomponents.

2.1      Enhancing Educational Policies and Performance Subcomponent. This subcomponent seeks to
improve the formulation and implementation of education policies that have an impact on entire education
system, including the State, Municipal, and private schools.

2.2      Supporting Education Programs to Increase Quality and Inclusion Subcomponent. This
subcomponent seeks to improve the quality of education in municipal schools with the worst performance
on SAEPE, reduce age-grade distortions at the fundamental level, and foster the inclusion of youth "at risk"
and diminish youth idleness and involvement in anti-social activities.

Component 3. Supporting the State Reform. This component promotes the State reforms aimed at
improving efficiency in delivering public services, through two subcomponents, one that addresses broader
public sector issues such as supporting the development of public administration models and procedures
according to the PDRE, and a second subcomponent that focuses on the introduction of the aforementioned
models and procedures into the education sector.

3.1      Supporting the Implementation of the State Reform Subcomponent. The objective of this
subcomponent is to support the implementation of reforms recommended in the PDRE through the
development of public administration models and procedures, which would then be piloted at SEDUC,
thereby improving effectiveness, efficiency and quality of education. By doing that, SEDUC will pioneer
the implementation of the PDRE, serving as a case study in the development of procedures that could be
applied to other Secretariats and public institutions in Pernambuco.

3.2      Strengthening and Modernizing Education Management Subcomponent. This subcomponent
seeks to modernize SEDUC by introducing changes recommended in the PDRE, and development under the
previous subcomponent, in the following areas: (a) human resources, (b) financial management, (c)
planning, (d) technology, and (e) supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the education sector activities.
Technical assistance will be provided to support the reorganization of the SEDUC, including the
introduction of management improvements to ensure more efficient service delivery, and legal and
organizational measures to make possible the implementation of the reforms.

                                                       6
                                                                                                          PID




Component 4. Project Management. This component will finance the management of the project and, at
the same time support the strengthening of SEDUC through the provision of technical assistance and
consultant services to implement the project and to adapt SEDUC to better integrate and gradually absorb
project functions.

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($21.00)
IBRD ($31.50)
Total Project Cost: $52.50

6. Implementation
Project implementation will be carried out by SEDUC. Under the leadership of SEDUC, the following
other project executing agencies will participate in project implementation: (a) SARE which will carry out
the subcomponent that supports the implementation of the State Reform; (b) SEPLAN which will carry out
the public expenditure reviews; (c) the School of Government (Escola de Governo) which will provide
management training; (d) the School Councils which will prepare and execute School Improvement
Subprojects (PMEs) for both state and municipal schools. While Municipal Education Secretariats would
not be directly responsible for project implementation, they will select "winning" PMEs among municipal
schools and oversee their implementation according to criteria and guidelines detailed in the project's
Operational Manual. In addition, selected Universities and NGOs will participate the provision of training
services under contract by SEDUC. The scope of the participation of each of the project executing
agencies is described in the Operations Manual.

7. Sustainability
The project objectives support Government policies and are the product of an extensive consultation
process. The project preparation team included the staff from the Secretariat of Education, who will
continue to be involved in the implementation of the project, as well the Secretariats of State Reform and
Administration, Finance, and Planning.        Project actions complement actions developed and/or being
implemented by the Government, as well as Federal efforts under other programs such as FUNDESCOLA,
and structures of project -- with the exception of the accelerated program -- are part of the SEDUC and will
continue to be carried out after the project is completed. Moreover, the preliminary financial analysis
(Annex 5) shows that the project is financially sustainable. The project uses a participatory approach to
promote the active participation of Municipalities, schools directors, teachers and parents in improving the
education services. This partnership is an important factor in building a sustainable and effective education
system that is accessible and benefits all school-aged children in Pernambuco over the longer term.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from the design and implementation of the Northeast Basic Education I, II, and III Projects
(Loans 1867-BR, 3604-BR and 3663-BR), the FUNDESCOLA I and II Projects (Loans 4311-BR and
4487-BR), and the preparation of the Ceará Education Project (Loan 45910) and Bahia Education Project
(Loan 45920) have been incorporated into the Pernambuco Education Quality Improvement Project. More
specifically, the project reflects the following lessons on the:       (i) importance of Basic Operational
Standards; (ii) need to foster cooperation between State and Municipal Systems; (iii) adequate monitoring
and evaluation systems; (iv) impact of autonomy and participation; (v) accelerated classes; and (iv) public
sector modernization efforts.

                                                      7
                                                                                                       PID


9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues    : The proposed project does not involve any construction of new infrastructure or other
activities likely to have significant environmental impact.



10. List of factual technical documents:
Abreu, Marisa. Instrumentos para o Desenvolvimento da Gestão da Educação Municipal. Agosto 2002.
Mimeo.

Aguiar, Rui. Proposta para o Fundo de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Educação Municipal. July 2002.
Mimeo.

Carnoy, M., Gove, A. ,Loeb, S., Marshall, J.and               M. Socias. Preliminary Evaluation of
MEC/Fundescola's School Development Plan (PDE) Experience: Student Achievement, Attendance,
Attainment, Degree of Implementation and Cost-Benefit Analysis. Stanford, California. 2002. Mimeo.

Castro, Zélia. Correção do Fluxo Escolar. September 2002. Mimeo.

Galheigo, Ana. Autonomia Escolar no Estado de Pernambuco. May 2002. Mimeo.

Fernandez, Cida. Integração de Unidades de Informação e Comunicação Educacional e
Cultural nas Escolas da Rede Estadual do Ensino Pernambuco. November 2002. Mimeo.

Ferreira, Rosilda Arruda. Plano de Gestão da Escola. Agosto 2002. Mimeo.

Laranjeira, Maria Ines. Proposta de Política Estadual de Formação de Professores. December
2002. Mimeo.

Luck, Heloísa. Capacitação para Gestores Escolares em Processo de Liderança, Comunicação
e Relacionamento Interpessoal. November 2002. Mimeo.

Mares Guia, João Batista. Review of Legislation Applicable to School Councils in Pernambuco. January
2002. Mimeo.

Melo, Guiomar Namo. Educação Inicial e Continuada de Professores da Educação Básica. Fevereiro
2003. Mimeo.

Government of Pernambuco. Master Plan for the State Reform (Plano Diretor da Reforma do
Estado). January 2000.

Government of Pernambuco. Secretaria de Administração e Reforma do Estado. Restructuring and
Modernization of the State Apparatus. February 2003.

Government of Pernambuco. Secretaria de Educação e Cultura. SAEPE: Relatório 2002. March 2003.

Rodríguez, Alberto and Carlos A. Herrán. Educação Secundária no Brasil: Chegou a Hora. World
Bank and Interamerican Development Bank. Washington D.C.: 2000.

                                                  8
                                                                                                 PID




World Bank. Next Steps for Education in Four Selected States in Brazil. Washington D.C.: March
2002.



11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Andrea C. Guedes
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: 202-473-6286
      Fax: 202-522-1201

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

