RESTRICTED
Report No.   PTR-78Ha
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
NIGERIA
March 28, 1972
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit       = Nigerian Pound (NE)
US$1.00             = NE 0.329
240 Nigerian pence  = NE 1 = US$3.04
NE 1,000,000        = US$3,040,000.
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31
System of Weights and Measures: British/US
British/US               Metric
1 foot (ft)           =  0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)           = 1.61 kilometers (k)         2
1 square mile (sq mi) - 2.59 square kilometers (km )
1 ton (lg ton)        = 1,016 kilograms (kg)
1 US gallon (gal)     = 3.785 liters
1 Imperial gallon
(imp gal) = 4.545 liters
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT       - Average Daily Traffic
FMWH      - Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
KAMPSAX   - Kampmann, Kierulff and Saxild A/S (consultants  Denmark)
MWT       -  Ministry of Works and Transport (Western States
NEDEC0    - Netherlands Bbgineering Consultants
NRC       - Nigeria Railway Corporation
OAP       -  Ove Arup and Partners (consultants, UK)
UNDP      - United Nations Development Programme



NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .........   ............. . . . . . . . .. .  .             i
I.    INTRODUCTION o ............................... o... ... .........                     1
II.   BACKGROUND                .................... ,........ *                            2
A.    General   ........         .      ........ ......................* * -  -**    2
B.    The Transport Sector  .. ....    .. ..... ..   ........-........               2
C.    Transport Coordination  ... o........ o...0. .... . . . . .  .. .. .e.         5
III. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ............**..    o                                   *.....o...o...... ...  6
A.    Highway Administration  ...... . . . . . . . . . ...       ..... ...... . *    6
B.    Highway Financing and Planning  ...7........... ......                         7
C.    Characteristics  and Growth of Road Traffic  ..o  ........                     8
D.    Highway Engineering  .............. ...o.  .............                      10
E.    Highway Construction  ...........                                             10
F.    Highway Maintenance  ... ..... . . . . . .  ............... ....  ...  ........ 0   11
IV.   THE PROJECT  ...... o             ............ .................o... ..              12
A.    General Description  ....* ....... . . . ............             ........    12
B.    Road Construction/Reconstruction in the Western State.                        13
C.    Reconstruction of Damaged Bridges on Federal Roads  ...                       13
D.    Technical Assistance  . .........o..ooo ... o..                               13
E.    Cost Estimates and Financing  ...oo.......ooo.o .......                       14
F.o   Execu tion  . . . . .    o .  .   o. . ....  .  .  .  .  .  .* .  * . .  ... .  .....  .    *.. .. ..  .1 16
G.    Disbursements  . .. .... ..... .  .........  ***.00.00.*..*                   17
V.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  .......* ..............  . .. . . . . .                         18
A.    Road Construction/Reconstruction  in the
Western State  ..               . .......... O..  .. .. . ..* .....* .     18
B.    Reconstruction of Damaged Bridges  ........ ............                      19
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .............. . ......                       21
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. P. E. Fossberg (Engineer) and G. J. Roth (Economist).



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector of Nigeria
2.   Main Recommendations of the Maintenance Advisers to the
Western State Ministry of Works and Transport
3.   The Project Roads and the Areas They Serve
TABLES
1. Trunk A and B Road Networks - 1967
2. Principal Taxes on Vehicle Ownership and Use
3.  Summary of Road Investment Program 1970-74
4. Vehicles Licensed in 1967 by Type and Area
5. Consumption of Motor Fuel - 1966-70
6. Motor Vehicles Imported - 1965-69
7. Trucks Classified by Carrying Capacity
8. Trucks in Northern States Classified by Carrying Capacity
9. Vehicle Operating Costs
10. Design Standards for Project Roads
11. Location and Design Standard of Project Bridges
12. Cost Estimates
13. Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
MAPS
1   Nigeria - Road Map
2.   Nigeria - Roads in the Western State



NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Nigeria has a relatively well developed highway system, and there
are only a few areas where economic development is seriously hampered by lack
of access. However, many roads have become inadequate to handle the rapidly
increasing density and weight of road traffic. To cope with this problem,
several road construction and improvement schemes are now under way, and fur-
ther projects are being prepared.
ii.       Nigeria's Second National Development Plan (1970-74) foresees road
investment to the value of NE 166 million (US$505 million equivalent).
About a third is for rehabilitating and reconstructing roads damaged as a
result of war, and the Bank is participating in this work through the Highway
Rehabilitation Loan (640-UNI, 1969) and the Transport Rehabilitation Loan
(694-UNI, 1970). Some of the schemes for new construction are also being
prepared with Bank assistance.
iii.      The Bank Group has been associated with the development of Nigeria's
transport sector since 1958. Six loans, one credit, and two technical
assistance grants, totalling US$125 million, have been made in the sector,
with highway projects accounting for US$58 million. Through these operations,
and also as executing agency for the UNDP, the Bank has been closely involved
in road feasibility and engineering studies. In western Nigeria these studies
have resulted in a 'rolling' program of project identification, engineering
and construction.
iv.       Five state road projects were identified during a UNDP financed
road survey, engineered under Loan 427-UNI (1965), and are now included for
financing under the proposed loan. There are also eight damaged bridges
located on federal roads in the Mid-Western and Western States which are to
be reconstructed under the project; the engineering for these bridges was
financed under Loan 640-UNI (1969). In parallel with new road construction,
there must also be improvements in highway planning, administration, main-
tenance and care of highways; the proposed project is designed to enable the
Bank to assist the Federal Government in these matters by financing consultant
services and equipment.
v.        The project appraised in this report comprises:  (a) the construction
or reconstruction of 109 mi of state trunk roads in the Western State; (b) the
reconstruction of eight damaged bridges on federal roeds; (c) consultant and
technical services for supervising the above construction and for feasibility
studies, final engineering, and improved highway planning and maintenance
operations; and (d) provision of equipment for highway planning and for con-
trol of vehicle weights.



- ii -
vi.       The Federal Government has already taken action to improve highway
planning and enforcement of vehicle weight regulations, and the Government
of the Western State is implementing measures to improve its road maintenance
operations.
vii.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$42.6 million
equivalent. The foreign exchange component - to be financed by a Bank loan
of US$26.3 million equivalent - is estimated to be 60% of construction costs,
70% of consultants' costs, and 100% of equipment costs. Provision is made
in the loan agreement for retroactive financing from October 1, 1971 of
foreign expenditures for the urgently required nationwide highway maintenance
study.
viii.     It is expected that both local and foreign firms will bid for the
road construction contracts in the Western State; these contracts will be
awarded in accordance with the Bank Group's normal procedures for international
competitive bidding. Contracts for reconstruction of the bridges have already
been awarded under arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
ix.       Savings in vehicle operating costs and road maintenance costs on
the improved roads are expected to yield internal economic returns (IER)
ranging from 12% to 322, with a weighted average of 23%. Internal economic
returns for the bridges according to calculations made by consultants range
from 12% to 35%, with a weighted average of 20%.
x.        The Western State Ministry of Works and Transport will be responsi-
ble for the construction and reconstruction of roads in the state; the Federal
Ministry of Works and Housing will be responsible for the execution of the re--
mainder of the project. The loan will be to the Federal Government which will
make part of the loan proceeds available to the Western State. In addition to
the loan agreement, there will be a project agreement between the Western
State and the Bank.
xi.       On the terms and conditions outlined above, the project provides a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$26.3 million equivalent. A term of 25
years, including a five-year period of grace, is appropriate.



NIGERIA
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Nigeria has asked the Bank to help finance a
project costing US$42.6 million equivalent, comprising (a) construction
of 63 mi and reconstruction of 46 mi of state trunk roads in the Western
State of Nigeria, and including supervision by consultants; (b) recon-
struction of eight bridges on federal roads A 121, A 122 and A 232, includ-
ing supervision by consultants; (c) technical assistance to carry out feasi-
bility studies for 2,000 mi and final engineering for 400 mi of road, and to
improve highway management, planning and maintenance activities; and (d) provi-
sion of equipment for highway planning and for control of vehicle weights.
1.02      The Bank Group has been involved in the preparation and financing
of transport projects in Nigeria since 1958, and has made six loans, one
credit and two technical assistance grants, totalling $125 million, for such
projects. A total of US$58 million has been provided to finance four high-
way projects. In addition, a US$28 million loan (193-UNI, 1958) to the
Nigeria Railway Corporation assisted in the implementation of its five-year
development program, and a US$13.5 million loan (326-UNI, 1963) provided for
improvements and extensions to the Port of Lagos. In 1970, a loan for the
sector as a whole (694-UNI, US$25 million) provided assistance to rehabili-
tate federal roads, ports and railways.
1.03      The technical assistance grants were made for the Road Development
Survey in northern Nigeria in 1963 and the Eastern Roads Study in 1965, and
the Bank-financed Kainji Power Dam project includes a lock to accommodate
river shipping. Through its road loans and grants, and as executing agency
for UNDP studies, the Bank is an active participant in road feasibility and
final engineering studies for both federal and state highways. Details of
Bank involvement in Nigerian transport are provided in Annex 1.
1.04      Performance on the Bank highway projects has been uneven.  Con-
struction of the Apapa Road financed by Loan 426-UNI has been delayed because,
after the contract was let, the original design prepared by the Federal
Government was found inadequate. The project had to be redesigned and will
be completed in 1973; costs will be far higher than originally estimated.
The construction projects financed by Credit 73-UNI and Loan 427-UNI have
been completed. The latter project also included about US$2.25 million for
maintenance equipment, procurement of which is now underway. There were
delays initially under Loan 640-UNI in awarding contracts both for construc-
tion and for consultant services, mainly due to weaknesses in road adminis-
tration, but this project is now proceeding satisfactorily. For the Transport
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 694-UNI), works were only tentatively identified
at the appraisal stage because of the urgency involved, and agreement was
reached with the Government in 1971 on a list of items to be financed under
the loan; most of the road works are now well advanced. Loan 427-UNI had



- 2 -
also provided for detailed engineering by consultants of high priority road-
works identified in a UNDP-financed Western Nigeria Road Development Survey.
The proposed project provides for the construction of 109 mi of road works
thus engineered.
1.05      The project was appraised in November/December 1970 by a Bank mis-
sion comprising Messrs. P. E. Fossberg (Engineer) and G. J. Roth (Economist).
The project content was modified, at the Federal Government's request, during
the summer of 1971. This report is based on the findings of the appraisal
mission, and on those of subsequent missions.
II. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2,01      The terrain in Nigeria ranges from low-lying mangrove swamps
along the coast to semi-desert in the north. The land is generally flat
and, except along the border with the Cameroon Republic and in the central
plateau, few points are higher than 2,000 ft above sea level. The Niger and
Benue river system splits the country into three parts and constitutes the
major natural obstacle to transport.
2,02      Nigeria's population is officially estimated at about 68 million,
the largest in Africa. Density varies from over 1,000 per sq mi in Lagos and
some of the eastern states, to under 50 per sq mi in some of the northern
states, Population has recently been increasing at a rate of 2.6% p.a.
2.03      Gross National Product (GNP) per capita is about US$100.  The devel-
opment of rich oil deposits in the south should, however, provide the impetus
for GNP to grow rapidly in the near future.
2.04      Some of the twelve state governments created in 1967 are still in
a formative stage, and have not yet become fully effective administrative
units. The Western and Mid-Western States, on the other hand, retained the
same machinery of government that they had as Regions, and their administra-
tions are therefore comparatively well established.
2.05      The Western State, the focus of this project, is, with about 11 mil-
lion people, the most populous state. It generates substantial land trans-
port movement, and its transport system must also accommodate the main traffic
flows between the northern states and the port of Lagos.
B,   The Tranlport Sector
(a) General
2.06      The economic history of Nigeria is closely connected with the
development of its transport system. In 1912, the 700 mi (western) railway
line from Lagos to Kano was completed, and contributed greatly to agricultural



- 3 -
development in the north. The decades that followed saw the extension of the
railway network to 2,200 mi (including the eastern line from Kaduna to Port
Harcourt), and the development of a paved road network of some 10,000 mi.
Road transport developed rapidly; by 1953 it was carrying more than half of
freight ton-miles, and by the 1960's carried a substantial and increasing
share of the export produce crops from the north, traffic that had previously
been moved almost entirely by the railways.
2.07      In 1965, about 61% (in ton-miles) of goods transported in Nigeria
was by road, 27% by rail and 12% by water. About 56% was internal traffic,
27% export, 9% import, and 8% in transit. The main export traffic flows were
of groundnuts from the north through the Western Region (now the Western
State) to the port of Lagos. The heaviest internal movements were in the
south, particularly between the heavily populated areas that now comprise the
Western, Mid-Western, Lagos and East-Central States. Between 1965 and 1970
road transport rose by about 30%, rail transport declined by about 18%, and
water transport fell to a tenth of its pre-war value. The modal allocation
of freight transport in 1970 is estimated to have been 77% road, 22% rail
and 1% water.
2.08      The transport sector was severely affected by the civil war.
Although military action was largely confined to small areas in the east,
the repercussions on transport were felt elsewhere. Severe damage was in-
flicted on roads and bridges throughout the country, as all export and im-
port traffic had to move through western Nigeria; the western railway line
was not able to satisfy demand, and a great deal of traffic was sent in
heavy trucks on roads that were inadequate to carry them.
2.09      In May 1971, the Bank sent a transport sector review mission to
Nigeria; it reported that the country's most urgent need in the transport
sector was to raise the efficiency of existing resources. In the road
transport field, the mission recommended that priority should be given to
the improvement of highway administration, planning and maintenance, and
to the strengthening of vehicle regulations. The mission's report has
been submitted to the Government and remains to be discussed.
(b)  Highways
2.10      Details of the highway sector are discussed in Chapter III.
(c)  Railways
2.11      The Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) was created in 1955 as a
statutory public corporation.  Its system includes 2,178 route-mi of single
track. The railways reached a peak of efficiency and profitability in
1963/64 when they carried almost 3 million tons of freight, and earned a
net profit of NE 34,000 from revenues of NE 16.3 million. There has since
been a decline in traffic and in efficiency, and the railways have incurred
substantial losses attributable to defects in management, equipment and rate
policies, and to competition from road transport. Unless efficiency improves
substantially and operations and rates become more flexible, the railways



- 4 -
may lose more traffic to road transport, even in long distance bulk haulage
where they should enjoy an advantage.
2.12      In addition to these problems, the railways were hard hit by the
civil war. The NRC lost some 6,000 employees of various skills; the eastern
branch of the network was damaged, and about one-third of the rolling stock
was immobilized in the war zones and has consequently deteriorated.
2.13      The investment program for railways for the Plan period totals
NE 21.8 million, of which NE 10.3 million are for locomotives and rolling
stock, and NE 6.7 million for track improvement. The Government has secured
the assistance of the Canadian National Railways' International Consulting
Division to review the program in the light of recent developments, and to
examine all aspects of NRC's operations; the consultants' report is expected
shortly.
(d) River Transport
2.14      The Benue river is navigable for four months a year to Yelwa
(890 miles inland), and for two months a year to Garoua in the Cameroon
Republic. The Niger river is generally navigable eight months a year to
Jebba (560 miles inland). In the early 1960's about 325,000 tons were moved
annually from Garoua by commercially operated river fleets, but this trattic
was interrupted by the civil war and has not been resumed. The extended
navigation season expected from the Kainji dam construction has not yet
materialized, and the Niger and Benue waterways continue to play only a minor
role in the transport of goods and passengers. The potential for river trans-
port in Nigeria is in question, and the Government has asked its Transport Plan-
ning Unit to examine the merits of further investments in this field (para.
2.19).
(e) Ports
2.15      The Nigerian Ports Authority operates 17 berths (including
one that can be used for containers) in the Port of Lagos, eight in Port
Harcourt, three in Calabar, one in Warri and one in Koko, in addition to a
large number of anchorages in all its ports. In 1968/69 the Authority's
ports handled 5.4 million tons of cargo (including oil), of which 3.2 million
tons were discharged and 2.2 million tons loaded. Revenues from port operations
totalled NG 9.1 million, with a net profit of NE 1.7 million. The financial
rate of returr on net fixed assets was about 7%. The Government's Plan
visualized investments of NE 18 million in ports from 1970/71 - 1974/75.
In a recent report, the Dutch consultants, NEDECO, questioned the urgency
of the proposed port investments; and the Bank's transport sector mission,
while recommending that development at Lagos should be substantially along
the lines of the Plan, suggested that the Government should take into account
N'.1)ECO's recommendations on Calabar and Warri.
(f) Air Transport
2.16      Domestic air services are provided by Nigeria Airways, a wholly
Government-owned corporation, and international services by this line and by



foreign companies. Nigeria Airways' fleet includes one Boeing-707, fivo f-.t1
aircraft, and one F-28 leased from Fokker. Audited accounts have not been
published since 1966. International traffic is projected by Nigeria Airways
to increase by 12-14% p.a. until 1985; domestic traffic by 30% p.a. to 1975,
then by 15% p.a. to 1980. Air freight is still only negligible. A Dutch
consulting firm, Netherlands Airport Consultants, is currently conducting
engineering and preliminary planning studies for thirteen commercial airports
in Nigeria. Priorities include a new international airport at Lagos, major
improvements to the airports at Port Harcourt and Calabar, and new aircraft
to expand domestic services.
C.   Transport Coordination
2.17      Transport in Nigeria is affected by coordination problems of two
kinds: "vertical" coordination between federal and state agencies concerned
with their corresponding trunk roads (paras. 3.03 to 3.06), and "horizontal"
coordination between roads and other transport modes, particularly railways.
The main "horizontal" problems are due to the fact that while federal trunk
roads have been the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing
(FMWH), all other modes come under the Federal Ministry of Transport.
2.18      The Government is aware of the need to improve transport planning
and coordination, and proposes to re-organize and strengthen the Ministry of
Transport to prepare it for a more active role in policy formation and in-
vestment planning. A new Transport Planning Unit has been established within
the Ministry, with consultants (Robert R. Nathan and Associates, US) financed
by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The unit
has already done useful work, and has started to become involved in highway
planning.
2.19      The main coordination problem concerns transport of bulk export
produce from the agricultural north to the southern ports. An increasing
proportion of this traffic is carried by trucks too heavy for the roads,
although there is evidence that much of it could be carried by rail at a
lower economic cost. The reasons for the diversion of long distance bulk
produce from rail to road include: poor service offered by the railways and
inflexibility in their tariff structure (para. 2.11); laxity in enforcing
road vehicle weight regulations (para. 3.16); and taxes on heavy vehicles
which do not meet the economic costs of road use (para. 3.15). The Ministry
of Transport, with the assistance of the Transport Planning Unit, is currently
preparing proposals to deal with these and other difficulties; the measures
described in para. 3.17 are intended to help solve the vehicle overloading
problem. The entire matter of transport coordination has been discussed in
the report of the sector review mission (para. 2.09).



- 6 -
III. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   Highway Administration
3.01      Roads in Nigeria are administered by federal, state or local
governments as follows:
a)   federal (Trunk A) roads link the federal and state capitals,
other large towns or ports, and neighboring countries. These
roads are the responsibility of the FMWH, although the state
act as agents for their maintenance;
b)   state (Trunk B) roads link large towns to each other and to
the federal network. Each state has a ministry responsible for
the construction and maintenance of Trunk B roads;
c)   city, village and feeder roads are the responsibility of local
authorities; in some cases, financial aid is provided by the
states.
3.02      The paved road network comprised some 1,100 mi in 1951, 6,900 mi by
1962, and 9,500 mi in 1967.  The mileages of federal, state, and local author-
ity roads, paved and unpaved, were as follows in 1967:
Paved      Unpaved       Total
Federal Roads                      3,393        2,210       5,603
State Roads                        4,355       4,650        8,915
Local Authority Roads              1,752      38,000       40,000
Totals (rounded)              9,500      45,000       55,000
A breakdown of federal and state road mileage by state is given in Table 1.
3.03      There is no formal machinery for coordination between the federal
and state road administrations. The Federal Government has no direct control
over state highway expenditures, nor over the detailed application of funds
that it provides for the maintenance of federal roads; it may, however, exert
some influence through the allocation of foreign exchange, and through the
Federal Ministry of Economic Development which assesses the states' highway
development plans in the context of the National Development Plan (para 3.08).
3.04      In 1968 the consultants, Kampmann, Kierulff and Saxild A/S
(KASIPSAX, Denmark) completed a Trunk Road Study financed under Loan
426-UNI, and recommended that: (a) both Trunk A and Trunk B roads should
be the responsibility of the Federal Government; (b) the maintenance of
the roads should continue to be carried out on an agency basis by the states;
and (c) Nigeria's highway administration should consist of an autonomous
federal highway organization and the 12 state highway departments. A



re-classification of the Trunk A roads on the lines proposed by KAMPSAX has
been adopted; and inter-Ministerial discussions are under way on the scope
of a "Highway Authority" for which the Government is now drafting legis-
lation establishing it as a separate agency. In this connection, a Govern-
ment team in February/March 1972 visited federally-organized countries in
Europe, and North and South America, to obtain information on the adminis-
tration and operation of highways in those countries.
3.05      The major problems which have hampered sound road development have
been: (a) the lack of inter-Ministerial coordination (paras. 2.17 and 2.18),
(b) uncertainty about future responsibilities for maintaining Trunk A roads
and, as one result, also about the role and organization of state Ministries
of Works, and (c) the lack of coordination among the federal and state
organizations concerned with highways (para. 2.17). These problems are now
being considered in connection with the decision to establish a Highway
Authority.
3.06      Some organizational changes have already been instituted in both
the FMWH and the Western State Ministry of Works and Transport (MWT). In
the latter, the changes are being based on the recommendations already made
by the maintenance advisers (para. 3.26 and Annex 2). In the FMWH, certain
ad hoc changes have been made pending the creation of the new Authority;
further studies will be required to develop the Authority as an effective
highway administration, and provision is made in the proposed loan for the
financing of such organizational studies.
B.   Highway Financing and Planning
3.07      Funds for federal, state and local authority roads are allocated
out of the general budgets of the authorities concerned. Investment in
roads is not influenced by the amount of taxes collected. Taxes and charges
for vehicle ownership and road use include import duties (which are substan-
tially higher for cars than for other imports), annual license fees, and
taxes on fuel. The tax rates are shown in Table 2. In the five years prior
to 1966, total highway expenditures were approximately equal to revenues
from road use taxation, but heavy trucks paid less than the damage they
caused to the road system (para. 3.15).
3.08      The 1970-74 National Development Plan provides for road invest-
ments of NE 166 million (Table 3). About a third of the investments are
for the rehabilitation of roads damaged by, or as a result of the war; the
Bank is participating in this program through the Highway Rehabilitation
Loan (640-UNI) and the Transport Rehabilitation Loan (694-UNI). If NE 6
million a year are added for expenditures on administration, maintenance
and highway regulation, total highway-related outlays in the Plan period
could reach NE 200 million, or an average of NE 50 million per annum.
Expenditures in 1970/71 are estimated to have been NE 20 million (Nt 15
million for new construction and NE 5 million for maintenance), and it is
doubtful whether the NE 200 million target will be reached. Road user
revenues over the Plan period, at present tax rates, are likely to reach
NE 150 million. This amount is below planned expenditures, but is likely
to exceed actual expenditures on the maintenance and expansion of the road
system.



3.09      Highway planning, in the sense of identifying needs and attempting
to satisfy them by an economic allocation of available resources, is weak
at both state and federal levels. Road investment decisions have been made
without reference to economic priorities, and such data as are collected on
traffic volumes, economic benefits, etc., are not being used in the planning
process. Measures should be taken urgently to improve this process at the
federal level, and priority should be given to re-establishing a country-wide
traffic counting system on a sound statistical basis; this and other measures
were discussed with the Federal Government during negotiations. The Government
is now arranging with the UK Road Research Laboratory for it to help in
setting up a traffic data collecting and processing unit in the FMWII. The
proposed loan makes provision for traffic counting equipment and for consultant
services to assist in strengthening highway planning.
C.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.10      Nigeria has a vigorous road transport industry catering for both
goods and passengers. Government control over road transport is minimal;
there is currently free entry into the industry, and no control over tariffs.
Roads outside the urban areas are not heavily trafficked; the average number
of licensed motor vehicles per mile of road (both urban and rural) is about
two.1/ The latest official statistics of vehicle population are for 1967
and are shown in Table 4. The 1971 vehicle population is estimated to have
been 80,000-90,000 cars (including taxis), 30,000-33,000 trucks and buses,
and 35,000-40,000 motorcycles.
3.11      Vehicle population figures do not however give the full picture
of transport development. More significant are the figures for fuel con-
sumption (Table 5) which can be taken to be roughly proportional to vehicle
mileage, and which indicate that from 1969 to 1970 there was an increase of
31% for gasoline-powered vehicles and 19% for diesel-powered ones. Fuel
consumption projections for 1971 indicate an annual growth of 27% for cars
and 10-11% for commercial vehicles. Fuel consumption in the three eastern
states 2/ in 1970 was only about a quarter of 1965 consumption, indicating
the potential in those states for substantial recovery in the near future.
Table 6 gives figures of motor vehicle imports and shows that they rose sub-
stantially in 1970, although private car imports were still running at only
a third of pre-war rates.
1/   Comparable figures:  Ethiopia 11.3, Tanzania 6.3, Ivory Coast 3.8,
Kenya 3.79 India 1.7, Niger 1.3.
2/   The term "eastern states" used for convenience in this report covers
East-Central, Rivers and South-Eastern States. The term "northern
states" covers Benue-Plateau, Kano, Kwara, North-Central, North-
Eastern and North-Western States.



- 9 -
3.12      The distribution of traffic in Nigeria is uneven.  Outside Lagos,
traffic density is highest in the Western State, although the number of
vehicles per person is highest in the Mid-Western State, and the number of
vehicles per unit area is highest in the eastern states.
3.13      Heavier commercial vehicles are being increasingly used.  Table 7
shows the classification of trucks by carrying capacity in 1961, 1964 and
1967. Between 1961 and 1967 the number of trucks of five-ton or less capacity
declined by an average annual rate of 5.6%, while the number of trucks of
five- to seven-ton capacity and above increased by 14% p.a. For the northern
states, Table 8 shows the growing importance there of vehicles with a
carrying capacity of over ten tons.
3.14      The financial and economic costs of operating commercial vehicles
in Western Nigeria were calculated by the consultants Ove Arup and Partners
(UK), and are shown in Table 9. The financial costs to the operator vary
from about 4.5 pence per ton-mile for a five-ton capacity truck to 2.3 pence
per ton-mile for a 24-ton capacity truck. Operating costs for these vehicles
net of tax vary from 3.3 to 1.7 pence per ton-mile. The economies from the
use of large capacity vehicles (partly due to insufficient road use taxation),
coupled with poor enforcement of weight regulations, explain the trend
toward heavier vehicles. A substantial proportion of road traffic is in
vehicles with a carrying capacity in the range of 10-32 tons, and a gross
weight of 15-50 tons. For such vehicles, loads on single axles can reach
15 tons or more.
3.15      KAMPSAX has estimated the costs imposed by different axle loads.
On this basis, it appears that while costs to vehicle operators decline
as payload increases, the economic costs of road haulage (defined as vehicle
operating costs plus incremental road costs) are least when the truck payload
is about 10 tons, which would correspond to a gross vehicle weight of about
15 tons. For a 16-ton payload, the economic costs of road transport may exceed
the costs paid by the vehicle operator by about 1-1/2 pence per ton-mile,
which for a typical operator could mean about NP 3,000 a year.
3.16      The maximum permitted gross axle weights on Nigerian trunk roads
are currently 10 tons for a single axle and 16 tons for a tandem. The
present regulations have been inadequate because:
a)   licensing authorities cannot refuse to license a vehicle
solely on the grounds that it can carry loads greatly in
excess of those permitted by the regulations;
b)   vehicle registration and licensing are state responsibil-
ities. Some states interpret thie regulations more
leniently than others, so that a vehicle registered in a
"lenient" state can travel freely in all others; and
c)   enforcement by the police is lax, and penalties are trivial.



- 10 -
3.17      To correct this, new regulations ("Highway Traffic Regulations,
1972") have been approved by the Federal Executive Council; these regulations
will:
(a)  give the FMWH powers to revoke the licensing of any vehicle
that does not comply in all respects with the regulations
applicable to its particular type or class;
(b)  give the FMWH (or another federal ministry or authority)
powers to enforce vehicle regulations on all roads; and
(c)  provide the basis for prohibiting the import, manufacture,
and use on federal roads of vehicles (excepting special
purpose vehicles) whose specifications permit excessive
axle loads.
The regulations have now been sent to the Supreme Military Council for approv-
al so that they may have effect on state as well as on federal roads.
3.18      Provision is made in the proposed loan for the purchase of weigh-
bridcee to assiRt in vehicle insnection and road reairTlttofn enforcement.
D.   Highway Engineering
3.19      With the limited resources at Nigeria's disposal, and in the
interest of extending the networks as widely as possible, construction
expenditures per mile were kept low in the past, and most roads (even many
paved ones) were of fairly light construction and are inadequate for the
heavier axle loads now being imposed (para 3.16).
3.20      Both the FMWH and the Western State MWT have now adopted acceptable
design standards for constructing their Trunk A and Trunk B roads. The
design standards for the proposed project roads (all Western State Trunk
B roads) are shown in Table 10, and those for the bridges in Table 11.
3.21      The FMWH has a Soils and Materials Laboratory which is relatively
well equipped and under qualified leadership, but the facilities are not used
to their full advantage. The laboratory of the Western State MWT is now being
improved and expanded under Loan 427-UNI. When the recommendations made
by the advisers provided under that loan (Annex 2) are implemented, the
laboratory should operate satisfactorily (see para. 3.29).
E.   Highway Construction
3,22      In the past, nearly all large contracts were carried out by
foreign contractors, many of whom still operate in Nigeria. There is
however a growing Nigerian road construction industry, and several contracts
in the price range of NE 0.4-1.0 million have been awarded recently to in-
digenous firms. There is a severe unemployment problem in Nigeria, but
there appears to be no desire, either on the part of contractors or of
Government officials, to introduce labor-intensive methods for road con-
struction, probably because the skills for managing a large labor force
are scarce.



- 11 -
3.23      Except for projects financed by external lending, road contracts
have normally been awarded either on the basis of unit price bids by firms
registered with the Federal or State Governments, or on the basis of
negotiated prices, in the latter case sometimes tied to contractor-financing.
Over the past two years, construction costs in Nigeria have risen sharply;
this is largely due to the release after the war of accumulated demand for
construction services, and to increased wages and taxation. In addition,
however, there is general inflationary pressure in Nigeria, and construction
costs can be expected to continue increasing.
F.   Highway Maintenance
3.24      From 1965 to 1970, the annual allocation for maintenance of
federal roads was NE 340-400 per mi; for 1970/71 the allocation was NE
550 per mi. In the Western State, the annual allocation for maintenance
of state roads fluctuated between NE 240 and NE 440 per mi between 1963
and 1969; the allocation for 1969/70 was NE 470 per mi, and for 1970/71
NE 500 per mi. The amounts budgeted should in both cases suffice for
adequate maintenance.
3.25      The quality of road maintenance varies considerably and is
generally not satisfactory, for some or all of the following reasons:
i)   low standards of initial road construction;
ii)   increasing axle loads;
iii)   a shortage of equipment and maintenance funds in some states;
iv)   the inexperience of many state administrations;
v)   delays in the provision of funds; and
vi)   poor management.
3.26      In 1969/70, maintenance of roads in the Western State was studied
(under Loan 427-UNI) by five maintenance advisers provided by consultants (Ove
Arup and Partners, UK). The loan also provided US$2.24 million equivalent
for the maintenance equipment which the Ministry is able to absorb at the
present time. The maintenance advisers concluded that the deterioration of
roads in the Western State was due largely to factors other than limitation
of funds, and that there was a serious deficiency in management. Higher
standards, and better use of men, money, machines and materials are possible
within the Government's present means, and these are the objectives of the
advisers' recommendations (Annex 2).
3.27      The consultants KAMPSAX are carrying out a nationwide study to
assess Nigeria's highway maintenance needs, and to provide a basis for future
improvement. The proposed loan provides for financing the foreign exchange
cost of the study.



- 12 -
3.28      The strengthening of Nigeria's road maintenance system to meet the
demands of rapidly developing road transport will be a major operation, and
will take several years to complete. Under the proposed project, the Bank
is encouraging initial steps by the Federal and Western State Governments
to tackle this problem.
3.29      During loan negotiations:
a)   agreement was reached with the Western State Government
on a timetable for implementing the maintenance advisers'
recommendations (para 3.26);
b)   assurances were obtained from the Federal Government that
it will discuss with the Bank the results of the KANPSAX
maintenance study (para. 3.27), with a view to agreeing a
schedule for the implementation of improved maintenance
procedures; and
c)   both Governments provided assurances that they will con-
tinue to improve the maintenance of their roads.
IV, THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(I)  Road Construction/Reconstruction in the Western State:
(a) construction of 63 mi and reconstruction of 46 mi of
Western State trunk read as detailed in Table 10; and
(b) supervision of the works by consultants.
(II)  Reconstruction of damaged bridges on federal roads:
(a) reconstruction of eight damaged bridges on federal
roads A 121, A 122, and A 232; and
(b) supervision of the works by consultants.
(III) Consultant and Technical Services:
Provision of consultant and expert services for:
(a) feasibility studies on about 2,000 mi, and final
engineering on about 400 mi of federal and state
roads; and



- 13 -
(b) technical assistance to improve federal highway
management, planning and maintenance activities.
(IV)  Equipment:
Purchase and installation of equipment for highway planning
and for control of vehicle weights.
B.   Road Construction/Reconstruction in the Western State
4.02      A detailed description of the proposed works is given in Annex 3;
the geometric and structural standards are shown in Table 10.
4.03      The project roads were engineered and evaluated by consultants
(Ove Arup and Partners (OAP), UK) under Loan 427-UNI). The Western State
Government has agreed in principle that OAP will supervise the civil engi-
neering works.
C. Reconstruction of damaged bridges on federal roads
4.04      Details of the federal road bridges to be reconstructed are given
in Table 11. The old bridges were single-lane, steel girder type, and poorly
located. They were all destroyed by military action, and have since been
replaced by temporary structures. The new bridges are designed with a 24 ft
carriageway and two 4-ft pedestrian walkways, and located so as to achieve
the most appropriate road alignment.
D.   Technical Assistance
4.05      The Second National Development Plan (1970-74) provides for nearly
NE 100 million to be spent on new federal and state roads; this is sufficient
to construct 1,000 - 2,000 mi, of which about 400 mi are already being de-
signed. The proposed project provides for feasibility studies for about
2,000 mi and for the detailed design of 400 mi of roads whose feasibility has
been demonstrated. The program already agreed with the Government for
feasibility studies is:
(a)  Calabar - Itu - Ikot Ekpene (feasibility)          75 mi
(b)  Ikom - Ogoja - Katsina Ala - Maiduguri
(reconnaissance and possible feasibility)         645 mi
(c) Mokwa - Bida - Keffi - Akwanga
(reconnaissance and possible feasibility)         290 mi
(d)  Zaria - Pambegua - Jos (feasibility)              150 mi
(e)  Port Harcourt - Aba - Enugu (feasibility)         180 mi
(f) Enugu - Abakaliki - Ikom - Cameroon border
(feasibility)                                     140 mi
Total                     1,480 mi



- 14 -
For the Ikom-Maiduguri and Mokwa-Akwanga roads, there will be a reconnaissance
study followed by feasibility study only for those sections for which a
prima facie case for improvement in the next Plan period has been made. The
balance of the total length of roads for feasibility study (approximately
520 mi) will be selected by the Government in agreement with the Bank. The
400 mi of road to be engineered will also be selected in agreement with the
Bank on the basis of results of feasibility studies.
4.06      To strengten highway administration and planning in Nigeria,
provision is proposed for:
(a) the employment of consultants to carry out a study
for improving road maintenance operations throughout
Nigeria (paras. 3.27 and 4.11);
(b) the recruitment of experts for the federal highway admin-
istration to advise on highway planning, and, inter alia, to
coordinate the work of consultants employed under the project
(paras. 3.09 and 4.12);
(c) the establishment of a country-wide vehicle counting
program, the provision of counters, and training in their
maintenance and in the use of the data produced (para. 3.09);
and
(d) the purchase of weigh-bridges for axle load control (para.
3,18).
E.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.07      Cost estimates for the road construction/reconstruction are based
on detailed engineering quantities and up-to-date unit prices, and are ac-
ceptable. Estimates for the bridge reconstruction are based on contracts
awarded (para. 4.15). A contingency allowance of 10% has been included to
cover possible variations in quantities. A further 20% contingency has
also been provided to take account of expected increases in construction
prices; this allowance assumes an increase of about 8% per annum over the
four-year period of the project.
4.08      The estimates for consultants to supervise construction are based
on costs for similar work under Loan 427-UNI, and amount to about 6% of the
construction cost. Estimates for feasibility studies and engineering are
based on typical figures quoted by consultants operating in Nigeria. The
cost of technical assistance for improving highway planning is estimated at
NE 200,000, and the cost of the road maintenance study, based on the
consultants' contract, will be NE 200,000. Equipment for traffic counting
and for control of vehicle weights is estimated at a CIF value of NE 200,000.
4.09      The total cost of the project, including allowances for quantity
and price contingencies, is estimated at NE 14.0 million (US$42.6 million
equivalent). Details of the estimates are given in Table 12, and summarized
below:



- 15 -
US$ (Millions)
NE (Millions)              Equivalent           %
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
I. Civil bbrks
(a) Road Construction/
Reconstruction in the
Western State             2.9     4.4    7.3       8.9    13.3    22.2        60
(b) Reconstruction of
damaged bridges on
federal roads             0.7     1.0     1.7      2.1     3.1     5.2        60
Sub-total I            3.6     5.4     9.0    11.0    16.4    27.4         60
II. Consulting Services
(a) Supervision of works
under I (a)               0.1     0.3     0.4      0.4     0.8      1.2       70
(b) Supervision of works
under I (b)                -      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.2      0.3       70
Sub-total II           0.1     0.4     0.5      0.5     1.0     1.5        70
III. Technical Assistance
(a) Consulting Services      0.5      1.1     1.6      1.5     3.4     4.9        70
(b) Equipment                  -      0.2     0.2       -      0.6     0.6       100
Sub-total III         0.5      1.3     1.8      1.5     4.0     5.5        73
IV. Contingencies (for I above)
(a) 10% on Quantities        0.4      0.5     0.9      1.1     1.6     2.7        60
(b) 20% on Prices            0.7      1.1     1.8      2.2     3.3     5          60
Sub-total IV          1.1      1.6     2.7      3.3     4.9     8.2        60
TOTAL                 5.3      8.7    14.0    16.3    26.3    42.6         62



- 16 -
4.10      Based on the consultants' evaluation, and depending on whether
works will be by local or by foreign contractors, the foreign exchange
component for highway construction in Nigeria ranges between 52% and 64%. If
it is assumed that the construction is carried out 20% by foreign contractors,
60% by foreign/local consortia, and 20% by Nigerian contractors, then the
overall foreign exchange component for construction will be about 60%. The
foreign exchange costs of consultant services are estimated at 70%, and of
equipment for traffic counting and for control of vehicle weights (excluding
installation costs) at 100% of the estimated CIF costs. The total foreign
exchange cost of the project amounts to US$26.3 million equivalent. The tax
element of construction cost is about 17%.
4.11      In view of its urgency, the road maintenance study has been started,
and it is proposed that up to US$150,000 be made available for financing
expenditures retroactive to October 1, 1971.
F.   Execution
4.12      Execution of the Western State Highway construction works will be
the responsibility of the Western State MWT, and is the subject of a project
agreement between the Western State and the Bank; execution of the remainder
of the project will be the responsibility of FMWH. Since delays have been
experienced in the appointment of consultants for Bank projects, the conclu-
sion of satisfactory arrangements for supervision of the road construction
has been made a condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.
4.13      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from both the
Federal and the Western State Governments that adequate local funds would
be made available for the project. The Bank was assured at negotiations
that procedures have now been instituted that should ensure the timely
release of the foreign exchange required by contractors for their operations,
and some improvements to previous difficulties in this matter have now been
reported by contractors.
4.14      The five roads will each be let as a separate construction contract.
The sizes of the contracts vary from NE 0.7 million to NE 2.3 million
(US$2.0 million and US$7.0 million equivalent respectively), and should be
attractive to both local and foreign contractors, particularly those already
established in Nigeria. Contracts will be awarded after international
competitive bidding among prequalified contractors, in accordance with
normal procedures of the Bank Group. The Western State Government has started
prequalifying contractors, and contracts should be awarded by August 1972.
4.15      Tenders were invited for bridge reconstruction (para. 4.04) in
March 1971 and opened by the Federal Tender Board on May 3, 1971. Only two
contractors tendered, both foreign. Recommendations for awards of contracts
were expected to be ratified by the Federal Executive in February 1972 and
awards made in March 1972. These recommendations were as follows:



- 17 -
(a) To Monier (Germany) - four bridges on federal road A 121
(Shagamu-BeniA) and one on A 122 (Benin-Owo).  The bid for
these bridges was much higher than the consultants' esti-
mate as a result of market conditions, increased material
and labor costs, and mobilization on dispersed sites.
(b) To Dumez (France) - three bridges on federal road A 232
(Benin-Asaba). The bid for these bridges agreed closely
with the consultants' estimate; the contractor is also
rehabilitating the road, including the bridge approaches,
for the Federal Government.
Both the contract awards have been agreed with the Bank.
4.16      Agreement has been reached with the Federal Government on feasibility
studies for 1,480 miles of road. The road maintenance study (KAMPSAX, Denmark)
is under way, and is expected to be completed by the end of 1972. Negotiations
are proceeding between the Federal Government and the Road Research Laboratory
(UK) for assistance in setting up a traffic data collecting and processing
unit in FMWHf; British technical assistance funds may therefore finance this
work. The precise needs for traffic counters and traffic control equipment
will be defined when this unit has been set up.
G.   Disbursements
4.17      The loan will be made to the Federal Government, which will then
make available to the Western State the loan proceeds for road construction/
reconstruction and supervision. The Western State Government will finance
the local costs of this work, and the Federal Government the local costs of
the remainder of the project.
4.18      It is expected that construction will start late in 1972.  Work
on the five roads will take between 1-1/2 and 3 years, and work on the
bridges, about 2 years. On this basis, a sclhedule of estimated disburse-
ment of the loan funds has been prepared (Table 13).
4.19      Loan funds will be disbursed as follows:
(a) 60% of expenditures for civil works, representing the
estimated foreign component;
(b) actual foreign exchange payments to consultants; and
(c) the CIF cost of imported equipment.



- 18 -
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Road Construction/Reconstruction in the Western State
5.01      The five roads are all Trunk B roads in wesL6rn Nigeria.  Annex 3
gives a description of the roads and of the areas they serve.
5.02      The road improvements are expected to produce substantial benefits
in the form of reduced vehicle operating costs, time savings for commercial
vehicles and their drivers, and savings in road maintenance costs. These
benefits have been quantified and are tabulated below, together with the
first year and internal economic returns for each of the five roads.
Capital   First year  Benefit/   Internal
Cost     Economic      Cost  1  Economic
Length (Net of Tax)   Return        Ratio-   Return
Miles   NE million                              %
Akure - Ondo                   26       2.32         16         2.1         24
Ilesha - Itawure               18       1.31         13         1.8         19
Abeokuta - Kobape             11        0.70              /2   1.2          12   /2
Gbongan - Ede, Oshogbo         30       1.61          7-21-    1.1-3.4L-  11-32-
Oshogbo - Okuku                24       1.41         13         2.2         19
/1   Benefits discounted at 10% p.a.
/2   The higher figures apply if trunk road A 122 - Ibadan-Ife - is
reconstructed, which is most probable, as the project has high
priority in the current Plan.
5.03      The benefits in vehicle operating costs are based on the unit
savings shown in Table 9. Traffic projections were based on pre-war growth
trends: 8% p.a. for cars, 4% p.a. for trucks. Unit time values for com-
mercial vehicles were obtained by dividing their capital costs by their
assumed economic life. Labor costs of truck drivers were assumed to be
2 shillings (NE 0.1) per hour. No allowance was made for the time of car
drivers, nor for the time of car, bus or truck passengers.  The economic
life of the roads was assumed to be 20 years.
5.04      The main parameters likely to affect the rates of return are: (a)
changes in capital costs, (b) changes in first year benefits, and (c) changes
in traffic growth rates. In the following table, the most likely economic
rates of return are compared with those that would apply in the case of:
(a) a 20% increase in the ratio of capital costs to first year benefits, and
(b) a halving of the assumed rate of traffic growth.



- 19 -
Internal Economic Returns if
parameters vary as shown
Ratio of capital
Most likely      cost to first year
internal economic benefits increased   Traffic growth
Road                     return           by 20%             rate halved
Akure - Ondo                    24                19                   21
Ilesha - Itawure                19                16                   16
Abeokuta - Kobape               12                 7   /1               9
Gbongan - Ede, Oshogbo          11-32 -           10-26t--              7-28I1
Oshogbo - Okuku                 19                16                   15
/1   As is the case in the previous table, the higher figures apply if
trunk road A 122 - Ibadan-Ife - is reconstructed.
The above figures indicate that a substantial increase in costs over present
estimates, including contingencies, if unaccompanied by a corresponding
increase in traffic, could put the Abeokuta-Kobape improvement at risk. The
clhance of the traffic growth being much below estimates is negligible.
B.   Reconstruction of Damaged Bridges
5.05      Seven of the bridges proposed for reconstruction  are on trunk
roads A 232 and A 121, and will replace temporary single-lane Bailey bridges.
The eighth is a four-span steel and concrete structure on trunk road A 122.
All the bridges are to be rebuilt on improved alignments consistent with the
long-term development plans for the raods. In the case of five of the
bridges, the realignment of the adjacent road is to be part of the proposed
bridges; for the three bridges between Benin and Asaba on A 232, Bank parti-
cipation is to be limited to the replacement of the damaged bridges.
5.06      The bridges were appraised in 1969 and were proposed for inclusion
in the project subsequently financed under Loan 640-UNI; they were, however,
deleted from that project. Updated information on the bridges has recently
been received from the Government on the basis of a report by the consultants
Ove Arup and Partners (UK).
5.07      The following benefits from improving the alignments of the bridge
approaches were taken into account: (a) savings in the vehicle operating
costs, which were assumed to approximate the unit saving shown in Table 9;
(b) savings in time due to distance shortening, better access, and higher
speeds, calculated on the bases described in para. 5.03 above; and (c) savings
in the road maintenance costs as estimated by the Government. The benefits
from replacing the bridges on roads A 232 and A 121 were calculated to be:
(a) savings in vehicle operating costs resulting from improvement of the
bridges, assumed to be 1.5 pence per vehicle crossing; (b) savings in delays
at the bridges, resulting from their being widened from single- to double-lane;
(e) savings in the costs of maintaining Bailey bridges, which exceed the costs



- 20 -
of maintaining permament ones; (d) the salvage value of Bailey bridge units,
which can be re-used elsewhere in Nigeria; and (e) savings in vehicle
accidents. It is not practicable to assign a meaningful benefit to replacing
the unsafe bridge on road A 122.
5.08      On the basis of recent traffic counts at the bridges, benefits
from their reconstruction are expected to grow at 10 % p.a. On the basis
of the assumptions in para. 5.07, the first-year economic return, the
benefit/cost ratio, and the internal economic return for each of the bridges
are as shown below. The first year of operation of the bridges will be 1974,
and their economic life 20 years.
Capital    First year   Benefit/    Internal
Cost       Economic       Cost/1     Economic
Bridge Location               (Net of tax)    Return       Ration-       Return
NE million        %                         %
Trunk Road A 232
ml 245 (bridge only)               0.12          22         4.4            35
mi 260 (bridge only                0.12          22         4.4            35
mi 266 (bridge only)               0.14          19         3.8            31
Trunk Road A 121
mi 80 (bridge & approaches)        0.28           7.4       1.5            14
mi 91 (bridge & approaches)        0.19           8.7       1.8            16
mi 98 (bridge & approaches)        0.14          10.6       2.1            18
mi 101 (bridge & approaches)       0.28           7.1       1.4            12
Trunk Road A 122
mi 194 (bridge & approaches)       0.35          /2        /2             /2
/1   Benefits discounted at 10% p.a.
/2   Existing bridge unsafe.  Quantification of benefits not practicable.



- 21 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal matters:
A.   With the Federal Government in connection with the Loan Agreement:
(a)  the improvement of federal highway planning
(para. 3.09);
(b)  the control of vehicle weights and dimensions
(para. 3.17);
(c)  the continued improvement of federal road maintenance
(para. 3.29); and
(d)  discussion between the Federal Government and the
Bank on consultants' recommendations on maintenance
(para. 3.29).
B.   With the Western State Government in connection with the
Project Agreement:
(a) the implementation of maintenance advisers' recommendations,
and a corresponding timetable (para. 3.29); and
(b) the continued improvement of road maintenance in the state
(para. 3.29).
6.02      A condition for loan effectiveness will be the signing of a satis-
factory supervision contract for road construction between the Western State
Government and a firm of consultants acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.12).
6.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$26.3 million equivalent. On the basis of the average
economic life of road construction works and length of construction period,
the appropriate term would be 25 years, including a five-year period of
grace.
March 28, 1972






ANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Bank Group Activities in the Transport Sector of Nigeria
The Bank Group has made six loans and one credit for the develop-
ment of transport in Nigeria, as well as two technical assistance grants.
Details are as follows:
193-UNI (1958) - Railway Loan
A US$28 million loan to help finance a five-year development
program of the Nigerian Railway Corporation. The loan provided for the
supply of diesel locomotives, rolling stock, workshop plant and track
equipment.
326-UNI (1963) - Apapa Wharf Improvement
A US$13.5 million loan to the Nigerian Ports Authority for a
wharf extension at Apapa Quay in the Port of Lagos, completion of ware-
houses, and provision of port equipment. The loan was intended to be the
first of a series of port development loans; a second loan is tentatively
foreseen for FY 1973.
Credit 73-UNI (1965) - Northern Roads
A US$15.5 million credit for the construction of 220 mi of main
roads and 50 mi of feeder roads as well as for equipment for vehicle control
in the north of the country. The project, which was completed on time and
within estimates, was executed satisfactorily, but serious base failures
have occurred on the 14 mi Gumel-Maigatari road. Remedial measures for these
failures are being discussed with the Kano State Ministry of Works and Survey.
426-UNI (1965) - Apapa Road
A US$17.5 million loan for the construction of about 4 mi of
4-lane expressway, partly elevated, leading to the Port of Lagos; for
highway feasibility studies of federal roads and the detailed design of
some sections; and for a study of the classification of major roads and
of the distribution of road use revenues. The Apapa road project has been
delayed, partly as a result of changes in FMWH's design necessitated
after a review by consultants revealed weaknesses in the original design.
The cost of the re-designed project (essentially an elevated structure
resting on piled foundations, as against the original ground level pavement
on sandfill) has increased from NE 8.7 million as estimated at appraisal,
to NE 11.8 million, and the project will now be completed in 1973.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Concern over escalating costs led the Federal Government to appoint a
Tribunal of Enquiry in May 1970; this tribunal has now made its report,
the main recommendations of which have been accepted by the Federal Govern-
ment. Government will provide the necessary funds to complete construction,
but certain items of work previously added by FMWH have been deleted. New
prices have now been negotiated, and a new construction contract has been
signed.
427-UNI (1965) - Western Roads
A US$14.5 million loan for the construction of three roads to-
talling 100 mi; for detailed engineering of a further 300 mi of roads; for
technical assistance to advise the Western State MWT on maintenance opera-
tions; and for the procurement of road maintenance equipment. The roads
are now open to traffic, and all construction accounts closed; final costs
were well within the appraisal estimates. The detailed engineering under
this loan forms the main basis for the loan now proposed. The technical
assistance operation, including five maintenance advisers, is complete, but
implementation of recommendations has been slow. Maintenance equipment is
on order, and some has been received.
640-UNI (1970) - Highway Rehabilitation
A US$10.6 million loan for the rehabilitation of 204 mi of the
Lagos-Ilorin and Lagos-Ewekoro trunk roads; for detailed engineering of
the new 70 mi Lagos-Ibadan expressway; for a feasibility study of an
improved road connection between Ibadan and Daura on the Niger border;
and for a preliminary study of improving the Benue River crossings near
the Cameroon border. There were lengthy delays in awarding the road re-
habilitation contracts under this loan, but these works and the final
engineering for the Lagos-Ibadan expressway are now satisfactorily under way,
and a contract for the Ibadan-Daura feasibility study has been awarded. The
project will probably be completed in 1973.
694-UNI (1970) - Transport Rehabilitation
A US$25 million loan to assist in urgent rehabilitation works,
namely:
Ports    - Repair of sheds and warehouses in Port Harcourt, and
acquisition of port handling equipment for all ports.
Railways - Acquisition of rolling stock, motive power and track
equipment and materials.
Roads    - Rehabilitation of up to 500 mi of trunk roads, includ-
ing bridges, and provision for consultant services.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
This loan was made, after very brief appraisal, shortly after the end of
the civil war. There have been difficulties in getting this project going,
mainly because of disagreements with the Government - in principle on the
Bank requirements on economic justification for works under this loan,
in practice on the selection of roads for Bank financing. The project is
now gaining momentum, and better progress can be expected in the future.
Thus far the equivalent of about US$12.5 million has been committed for
roads, US$11.0 million for railway equipment, and US$1.5 million for port
equipment. The project will probably be completed in 1974.
Bank Technical Assistance Grants
In 1963, a technical assistance grant of US$125,000 was made
for feasibility studies of 12 Trunk B roads feeding into the Bornu railway
extension, and for 25 other road projects in the Northern Region. The con-
struction of three of these roads, Maiduguri-Baga, Biu-Gombe and Gumel-
Maigatari formed the basis for Credit 73-UNI. Certain others of these roads
have been studied under Phase II of the Northern States Road Development
Survey (see below).
In 1965, a US$240,000 technical assistance grant was made for
a comprehensive study of regional and local authority roads in the Eastern
Region, to assess the existing transport system, to identify future needs,
and to make recommendations for road construction, road maintenance and
highway administration. The study, which was completed shortly before the
outbreak of the civil war, identified 14 priority projects totalling 295 mi
which should be constructed or reconstructed by 1973. These priorities must
now be revised in the light of present conditions.
UNDP-Financed Studies for Western and Northern Roads
In addition to the Bank-financed projects listed above, the Bank
also acted as Executing Agency for UNDP-financed regional road studies in
the west and north, similar in scope to the Eastern Roads Study. The Western
Nigeria Road Development Survey identified about 300 mi of priority road proj-
ects, and the final engineering for most of them was carried out under Loan
427-UNI. Field work for the Northern States Road Development Survey started
in October 1968, and the report on Phase I was submitted in October 1969.
Phase II, which comprises detailed engineering of roads identified in
Phase I, is nearing completion.
UNDP-Financed Transport Study for the Mid-Western State
The Bank will act as Executing Agency for the UNDP-financed trans-
port study in the Mid-Western State which is to deal mainly with road and
river transport. Terms of reference are being reviewed with the Government.






ANNEX 2
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Main Recommendations of Maintenance Advisers to the
Western State Ministry of Works and Transport
1) Minor administrative changes, and the introduction of a new salary
structure;
2) Measures to ensure adequate and timely release of funds for main-
tenance operations, both in the short run (the early months of
the fiscal year) and in the long run (a 4-year allocation plan);
3) Procedures for establishing a "road inventory"; the use of a
system of "sufficiency rating"; and revision of traffic census
procedures, to help in deciding on priorities in road maintenance
and improvement operations;
4) Outline for the establishment of a better planning organization;
5) Practical advice on maintenance operations, materials, equipment
and workmanship;
6) Recommendations on personnel training, particularly in regard to
in-service training;
7) Establishment of a "Plant Control Group" to ensure effective plant
utilization; describing and initiating the operation of a plant
hire system, unit costing and cost analysis;
8) Decentralization of workshop facilities;
9) Decentralization and expansion of materials laboratory facilities;
10) Reorganization of stores;
11) Procedures for disposal of redundant machines and parts; and
12) Listing of, and specifications for, road maintenance equipment
to be purchased under Loan 427-UNI.
The Bank has accepted the Western State Government's explanation of action
already taken or to be taken, as well as the Implementation Plan (dated
August 3, 1971) for the above recommendations.






ANNEX 3
Page 1
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Project Roads and the Areas they Serve
A.   The Akure-Ondo Road (26 mi)
The Akure-Ondo road serves an area of 600 sq mi in the center
of the Western State; the road itself is in the relatively sparsely
populated area between the federal trunk roads A 9 (Ibadan to Benin City)
and A 6 (Shagamu to Benin City). The population density of the area was
between 200 and 300 sq mi in 1966. Excluding the two main urban centers
of Akure and Ondo (population 100,000 and 70,000 respectively) the rural
population directly served by the road is approximately 150,000.
Economic activity in the area is predominantly agricultural.
Cocoa and plantains are of particular importance in the Ondo Division.
The average size of farm holdings is six to eight acres. The main towns
of Ondo and Akure are expected to grow substantially with a resulting ex-
pansion in commerce and small-scale service industries. Preliminary plans
have been considered for industrial estates at Ondo and near Akure.
The road performs a variety of functions, including:
i)   Direct communications between Akure and Ondo and
connecting the important market centers of Owena
and Alade with these two towns;
ii) The evacuation of cocoa from Ondo Division, and
the import of arable crops from the Ekiti Division
into this specialized cocoa area;
iii) The evacuation of timber from large forest reserves
in the area; and
iv) A route for through traffic travelling east-west
and north-south.
The existing road lies on a poor geometric alignment, and has a
12-14 ft wide surface, in poor condition. The average daily traffic (ADT)
is about 500-800, of which 52% are trucks, and substantial user savings
would be obtained by constructing a higher class road. The geometric
and structural standards of the new road are given in Table 10. Due to the
scarcity of suitable natural materials and the fairly high traffic, the
pavement design is relatively heavy, comprising a crushed stone base and
asphalt concrete surfacing.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
B.   The Ilesha - Itawure Road (18 mi)
The economic activity of the area served by the road is largely
dependent on agriculture and timber. In the vicinity of Effon Alaiye
there are cash crops, the main local produce being cassava, yams and
plantains, with small quantities of rice and kola nuts. Most of this
produce is consumed locally, with a small surplus exported to Ilesha and
beyond. South-eastwards of Aramoko the predominant cash crop is cocoa,
which is transported to Lagos via Ilesha and Ibadan. Between Aramoko
and Ijero there are important forest reserves producing some 5,000 logs
per year, mainly obechi and black ebony, which are transported to Ilesha.
A farm settlement and a sawmill are to be established at IJero Ekiti. A
French-owned sawmill in Ilesha processed approximately 200 tons of boles
per month in 1966 and employed about 120 people. A NE 400,000 textile factory,
which was opened in 1969, is now in production at Ado-Ekiti. A small
coffee processing establishment has recently been opened in Ilesha by the
Co-operative Produce Marketing Union. In the larger towns and villages
small-scale industries also operate.
Ilesha is the focal point for the majority of the cash crops
produced in the area, and several heavy transport services operate from
there. Aramoko is an important center, located at the junction of B 160
to Iddo and the north-east, and B 171 to Ado Ekiti, leading to Ikare,
Kabba and Lokoja in the east. Ado-Ekiti, 17 mi south-east of Aramoko,
is an important administrative town and a growing industrial center.
The road serves primarily as a through route from the Lagos-
Tbadan-Ilesha road to the north-eastern part of Western State and the
central part of Kwara State.  This function accounts for some 65 to 85%
of the traffic.  Of secondary importance is the accommodation of traf-
fic carrying timber and export crops from the Aramoko-Ijero-Ekiti area
to Ilesha and beyond, and the movement of local produce between vil-
lages.
The project includes about 10 mi of new construction, which will
effect a distance saving of about 6 mi for traffic between Ilesha and
Aramoko; the new road will also avoid the most hilly and mountainous regions
through which the existing traffic is routed. The first 8 mi of the new
link will be situated on an existing road, which now has an ADT of about 900,
with 35% trucks. This section is to be improved, but the existing geometric
alignment will be largely retained. The geometric standards vary for
different sections (Table 10); the structural design incorporates a crushed
stone base and double surface dressing.
C.   The Abeokuta-Kobape Road (11 mi)
The population density of the area served by this road was between
200 and 240 per sq mi in 1965. Excluding the urban centers of Abeokuta and
Shagamu (populations 170,000 and 60,000 respectively) the rural population



ANNEX 3
Page 3
close to the Abeokuta - Ml road is approximately 60,000. There are no
other large population centers in the area. Outside Abeokuta and Shagamu
the economy is based on agricultural activities. Palm oil is the most
important crop; others include cassava, yams, cocoa, kola nuts, citrus
fruit and rice.
The existing Abeokuta-Shagamu road serves primarily as part of
the through route from Abeokuta to Iperu, Shagamu and the south-eastern
parts of the Western State. The road also functions as an evacuation
route for local crops.
The new Abeokuta-Kobape road will eventually link Abeokuta with
the proposed Lagos-Ibadan motorway, currently being designed by consultants
under Loan 640-UNI. While new construction beyond Kobape should await the
detailed plans for the motorway, improvement of the Abeokuta-Kobape section
is already necessary. The existing road is on a poor alignment and the new
road will reduce the distance from 16 to 11 mi.  Thus, large operating cost
and distance savings will accrue to the new road (expected traffic upon
completion is 350 ADT of which 60% are trucks).  The road is to be constructed
to full geometric standards (Table 10), but only a first stage of the pave-
ment structure (natural gravel base with a two-coat surface dressing) is
provided by the proposed loan. The full pavement design is to be implemented
when the link with the Lagos-Ibadan motorway is completed.
D.   The Gbongan-Ede and Oshogbo Road (30 mi)
Farming is the main economic activity in the area served by these
roads. The average size of farm holdings in the area varies from 5 to 15
acres, depending on the type of vegetation. About 40 to 60% of the land
adjacent to the roads is under cultivation or lying fallow after culti-
vation. Cocoa and palm kernels are the predominant cash crops in the
area. Cotton is grown in the Ejigbo area north-west of Ede. There is
some cultivation of kola nuts. Yams and maize are the most important
domestic food crops in the greater part of the area and are exported to
Ibadan and Lagos.
Oshogbo, a city of 250,000 people, is the focal point of the
cash export crops produced in the area; it is also a major commercial
and administrative town. Ede, situated at the junction of trunk roads
B 359 (Ejibo-Ede-Ife) and B 360 (Oshogbo-Ede-Iwo) is also an important
town, with a population of 130,000.
In addition to serving as a through route for traffic from the
Oshogbo and northern areas to Ife and the nouthern area5 of the state, the
road accommodates local traffic carrying export crops from the Ede,
Sekona, Ode-Omu area to Gbongan, Ibadan and beyond, and the movement of
local produce between villages. The majority of heavier vehicles at
present use the alternative Ede-Iwo route to Ibadan, but improvement of
the Gbongan-Oshogbo road could result in all such traffic being attracted
to the Oshogbo-Agbinpa-Gbongan-Ibadan route.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
oshogbo is linked with Ibadan via Iwo, a distance of 59 mi. A
new link via Gbongan on the Ibadan-Ife road, in spite of being one mi longer,
would, because of its good quality, attract ADT of about 350 over and above
the existing traffic between Oshogbo and Gbongan.  ADT varies at present
between 200 and 600, 50-67% commercial. The reconstruction of the Ibadan-
Ife road, now in the final engineering stage, would greatly increase the
benefits from the improvement. The existing Gbongan-Ede road is on a
good geometric alignment which would be retained, but the formation would
be widened. The asphalt pavement on a natural gravel base is to be 24 ft
wide with 5-ft shoulders (Table 10).
E.   The Oshogbo-Okuku Road (24 mi)
Agriculture is the predominant economic activity in the area
served by the road. The average size of farm holdings is five acres. The
principal crops are cocoa, kola nuts and maize, with some cassava, citrus,
oil palm and yams. There are small-scale industries in the towns and
villages.
The road forms part of the long-distance link between the
northern and western areas, but by far the greater proportion of traffic
is concerned with the evacuation of local produce.  Okuku and Inisa are
collection points for large areas east and west of the road, and Ikirun
is the gathering point for crops from the Ekan and Iresi roads in the
east and the Eko-Oyinde road in the west. The majority of this produce
is transported to Ibadan and beyond. Improvement of this road together
with the lbadan-Oshogbo road would probably increase the proportion of
through traffic on it.
The present road has ADT of about 500; it has a fair geometric
alignment, but the existing 12 ft bituminous pavement is in poor condition.
The road is to be partly constructed on a new alignment, avoiding two
railway crossings on the existing road, with an asphalt pavement and a
relatively high geometric standard (Table 10).



TABLE 1
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Trunk 'Al and 'B' Road Networks - 1967
(length in miles)
(a) Distribution by Surfacing
Federal ("A")              State ("B")
Location         Trunk Roads                Trunk Roads               Total
Paved  Gravel   Total  Paved  Gravel  Earth  Total
Northern States 2,027   2,010   4,037  1,117   3,150    423  4,690         8,727
Western State      588      45     633  1,379       16    -    1,395       2,028
Mid-Western
State       172      -       172    774      153    -      927       1,099
Eastern States    537      155     692  1,014      818    -    1,832       2,524
Lagos State        69      _        69      71     -      -        71        140
Total           3,393   2,210   5,603  4,355   4,137    423  8,915        14,518
(b) Distribution by States
Federal ("A")          State ("B")
State                       Trunk Roads           Trunk Roads         Total
Lagos                                  69                   71               140
Western                               633                1,395             2,028
Mid-Western                            172                  927            1,099
Rivers                                  13                  177              190
South-Eastern                         235                  355               590
East-Central                          444                1,300             1,744
Benue Plateau                         620                  967             1,587
North-Central                         453                  439               892
North-Western                          721               1,097             1,818
Kano                                   282                 438               720
North-Eastern                       1,412                1,172             2,584
Kwara                                 549                  577             1,126
Total                               5,603                8,915            14,518
Source:    Kampsax Report
March 16, 1971



TABLE 2
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pri*cipal Taxes on Vehicle Ownership and Use
1.             Import Duties on Motor Vehicles (percentage of CIF value)
Trucks and Vans:                    30%
Cars:  Engine range(cc)
1,200 - 1,750      50%
1,750 - 2,150      75%
2,150 - 2,750     100%
over 2,750        150%
2.                               AnIn    License Fees
Private Cars                                        Commercial Vehicles
Unladen weight (tons)    NL                         Payload (tons          NE
under 0.60               7                          1.5                    25
0.60 - o.85             12                         1.5 - 2.0              31
0.85 - 1.10             19                          2.0 - 2.5              373
1.10 - 1.35             26
8.0 - 9.0            104
9.0 - 10.0           110
over 10.0            117
3.                           Rates of Taxes on Motor Fuel
(in pence per imp. gallon)
Federal                  State
State             Excis  Dauty              Purchase Tax             Total Tax
Gasoline & Diesel       Gasoline       Diesel    Gasoline     Diesel
Lagos               24.15                  2            2        26.15        26.15
Western               of                   2            2         26.15       26.15
Mid-Western           I'                   2            2        26.15        26.15
Rivers                "4                                4        28.15        28.15
East Central                               6            9        30.15        33.15
South Eastern         "                    3            4        27.15        28.15
Northern              n                    2            2         26.15       26.15
v The tenr "Northern States" covers Kwara, North Central, Kano, North
Eastern, North Western and Benue Plateau States.
Sources Appraisal mission.
Governments and Oil Companies, December 1970.
March 1972.



TABLE 3
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Road Investment Program 1970-7i74
(in NL millions)
Federal Government          1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   Total
Continuing Projects         13.544    10.645      1.884     1.500    27.573
Rehabilitation Projects     10.980    13.967      6.798     1.100    32.845
New Projects                  2.880     5.300     9.910     8.800    26.890
Feasibility and Final
Engineering Projects        1.850      2.350     1.250     1.100      6.550
Total Federal Road
Investments             29.254    32.262    19.842    12.500    93.858
State Governments
Benue Plateau                0.655      1.245     2.550     2.540      6.990
East-Central                 1.286      1.450     1.505     0.760      5.001
Kano                         0.800      2.030     1.664     1.006      5.500
Kwara                        0.980      0.900     0.690     0.780      3.350
Lagos                       0500       0.750     1.250     1.500      4,000
Mid-Western                   2.223     1.939     2.186      2.543     8.891
North-Central                0.603      1.450     2.350      1.918     6.321
North-Eastern                1.125      2.072     3.295     3.478      9.970
North-Western                0.600      0.770     1.190     0.750      3.310
Rivers                       0.350      2.250     2.050     0.840      5.490
South-Eastern                1.115      1.250     1.460     1.375      5.200
Western                       2.772     2.427     1.939     1.275      8.413
Total State Road
Investments             13.009    18.533    22.129    18.765    72.436
Total All Governments       42.263    50-795    41.971    31.265   166.294
Source:   Second National Development Plan 1970-74
March 16, 1971



TABLE 4
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicl  Licensed in 1967 -by Zire and Area
Light Trucks,
Cars and       Trucks and
Taxis          Tractors        Buses      Motorcycles
North     10,126           5,743           1,629       9,439
Lagos     16,690           4,387             752       3,476
West -/   14,185           5,927             551       7,339
East      16,249           6,034             833       6,359
TOTAL   57,250          22,091           3,765      26,613
1/ Including Mid-West State
Source: Federal Office of Statistics: Motor Vehicle Statistics 1967
March 16, 1971



TABLE 5
NIGERIA
FJYIH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Consumption of Motor Fuel 1966-70
(Premium and Regular)
(in millions of Imp. gallons)
Average
Increase
States                           1966    1967    1968    1969    1970      % p8.a
Lagos                            20.6   23.6    27.9    28.6   IL-          17.8%
Northern                         13       13.6    17.7    21.5    25.8      17.5%
Kwara                           -        -      2.9     3.8     4.1
North-Western                   -        -      2.0     1.9     2.7
North-Central                   -        -      47    55    6.0
Kano                            _       -       3.8     4.5     5.9
North-Eastern                   -        -      1.6     2.1     2.1
Beoe Plateau                    -        -      2.7     3.8     5.0
Plestern                         21.9    ?        26.2    29.7    34.1      11.7%
Mid-lXbstern                      9.3      7.9     7.0     9.9   13.3        9.3%
Eastern                          25.8   15.3   n.a.        0.4    12.2        -
East-Central                    -        -      "      n.a.     6.2
South-Eastern                                           0 -  0.4  1.6
Rivers                          -               n      n.a.     4.3
TOrALI/               91.2    85.7   78.9    90.2  125.1          8.2%
i/ Totals will not add up because of rounding.
Source:  Oil Companies' estimates. December 1970.
March 1972.



TABLE 6
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicles Imported: 1965-69
Vehicle Type                196U     1966      1967     1968       X       1970
Passenger Cars             159962   15,381   11,917    2,779    2,085    5,246
Dual Purpose Passenger
Vehicles               1,774    1,711   1,495    1,587    1,456    2,242
Buses                         639      505       380       52        83      635
Trucks not exceeding 3
tons unladen weight        1,286    1,719    1,518    3,073    3,845    5,158
Trucks exceeding 3
tons unladen weight        2,306    1,708    3,068    2,032    2,288    3,645
Special Purpose Lorries       991      917      523    1,051    1,250   13,622
Tractors                       44       50        54      129       66       145
Truck Chassis               1.048      663    _ 768    1,886    3342    5J344
TOTAL    24,050   22,654   19,723   12,589   14i,415   36,037
As tabulated,
Source: Federal Office of Statistics. December 1970.
March 16, 1971.



TABLE 7
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Trucks Classified by Carrying Capacity
Carrying Capacity         1961           1964            1967
Under 1 ton            119      1      16     0        2      0
1 - 3 tons           2,350    14   2,231    12   2,953       18
3 - 4 tons           2,234    13   2,276    12   1,666       10
5 tons               9,731    56  10,319    56   5,808       35
6 - 7 tons           1,809    10   1,844    10   2,797       17
Over 7 tons          1,022      6   1,822    10   3,438      20
TOTAL         17,265   100  18,508   100  16,664    100
Source: Federal Office of Statistics: Motor Vehicle Statistics 1967.
December 1970.
March 16, 1971



TABLE 8
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Trucks in Northern States Classified
by Carrying Capacity
Payload in tons           1966      1967       1968       1969
Up to 1-1/2                218        162       153        178
1-1/2 - 2                  840        890       760        625
2 - 2-1/2                  597        703       735        701
2-1/2 - 3                  202       269        222       194
3 - 3-1/2                  300        289       185        131
3-1/2 - 4                  225       198         90         56
14 - 4-1/2                  80         62        24         56
4-1/2 - 5                   95         80        16         34
5 - 6                      266        263       225        206
6- 7                        59         41        25         45
7 - 8                      346       260        219       200
8 - 9                      611       485        253       371
9 - 10                     469       531        422        348
over 10                  1,087     1,510      1,503     1,231
TOTAL         5,395      5,743     4,832      4,376
% over 10 tons             20%       26%        31%        28%
Source: Vehicle Registration Office, Kaduna
December 1970.
March 16, 1971



TABLE 9
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
TRUCKS (Payload)
CARS    3 Ton   5 Ton    10 Ton   2hTon
A.   Pence/vehicle-mile; net of taxes
1.  Average Operating Costs on      6.o57   8.84o   16.498   24.311   4o.944
12 ft. bitumen surfaced road
2.  Average Operating Costs on      5.o14   7.15o   13.311   20.020   33.327
24 ft. paved road with im-
proved standards
Savings in Operating Costs      1.043   1.690    3.187    4.291    7.617
Be Pence/ton-mile on 12 ft bitumen
surfaced road
1.  net of taxes                      -      2.95     3.30      2.43     1.71
2.  including taxes                          4 4.38   4.48      3.21     2.26
Source: Ove Arup and Partners, December 1970.
Western Nigeria Road Development Study
(Economic Data updated to 1970).
March 16, 1971.



NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAI PROJECT
Design Standards for Project Roads
2/
Pavement    Shoulder      Design     Maximum          Pavement Design
Length      width        width         speed      grade         Base
(a)         _(ft)                                 (%) 2/      course      Surfacing
1. Akure-Ondo (reconstruction)  26             24          5            60        3  (4)        6" CS         2" BM
2. Obongan-Ede, Oahogbo
Gbongan-Agbinpa-Ede
(reconstrmction)  20           22          5            50        3.5 (5)       6" NG         2-CSD
Agbinpa-Oshogbo
(construction)    10           22          5            60        2  (4)        60 NG         2-CSD
3.   Oshogbo-Okuku
(construction)    24           22          6            50        5  (6)        6" NG         2-CSD
4.   3lesha-Itawure
C (onstruction)    18
mi. 0 - 8                               24          5            40        5  (7)        5" CS         2-CSD
mi. 8 - 18                              20          6            501       5  (6.5)      4"I CS        2-CSD
5. Abeokuta-Kobape
(construction)    U            24          6            60        4  (5)        6"t NG        2-CSD
1/ Figures in parentheses give maximum in difficult terrain.
2/ Legend: CS = Crushed Stone      NG = Natural Gravel
BM = Bitumen Macadam   2-CSD = Two-coat Surface Dressing
3/ Design speed reduced to 40 mph where appropriate.
Source: Ove Arup and Partners, Ibadan. December 1970.                                                                  o
0
March 10, 1972.



TABLE 11
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Location a_d Design-Standard of Project Bridges
1.  On federal road A 121 - Shagami-Benin (bridges and apprpaches)
Four bridges at milea 80, 81, 98 and 101s total length approx. 650 ft.
2.  On federal road A 232 - Benin-Asaba (bridges only)
Three bridges at miles 245, 260 and 266s total length approx. 370 ft.
3.  On federal road A 122 - Benin-Owo (bridge and approaches)
One bridge at mile 194: length 260 ft.
Standard for an bridges:
24 ft width with two 4-ft pedestrian walkways.
Designed to BS 153 and HA loading.
Source: Ove Arup and Partner., Ibadan. December 1970.
March 10, 1972.



TABLE 12
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Item                                               Cost (N6 millions)
I.   (a) Road Construction/Reconstruction
in the Western State
(i) Akure-Ondo                                      2.3
(ii) Ilesha-Itawure                                  1.3
(iii) Abeokuta-Kobape                                0.7
(iv) Gbongan-Edo-Oshogbo                            1.6
(v) Oshogbo-Okuku                                  1.4
7.3
(b) Reconstruction of Damaged Bridges
an Federal Roads                                      kt
II.       Consulting Services
(i) Supervision of works under I(a)                0.4
(ii) Supervision of works under I(b)                 0.1
III.       Technical Assistance
(i) Feasibility studies                            0.8
(ii) Detailed engineering                           0.4
(iii) Maintenance Study and highway planning         0.4
(iv) Equipment                                      0.2
1.8
IV.       Contingencies (for Item I above)
(i) 10% on quantities                              0.9
(ii) 20% on prices                                  1.8
2 7
TOTAL   I - IV                      14.0
December 1971.



TABLE 13
NIGERIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                              Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter ending                            at end of  uarter
(US$ millions)
1972/73
December 31, 1972                                      2.0
March 31, 1973                                         4.0
June 30, 1973                                          6.0
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                     8.0
December 31, 1973                                     10.0
March 31, 1974                                        12.0
June 30, 1974                                         14.0
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                    16.0
December 31, 1974                                     18.0
March 31, 1975                                        20.0
June 30, 1975                                         22.0
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                    24.0
December 31, 1975                                     25.0
March 31, 1976                                        26.0
June 30, 1976                                         26.3
Source: Appraisal Mission, December 1970.
March 10, 1972.






.--"<iielc    -                  R E PUBL IC            OF        NIGER                                                       md=  tcuL 
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                 KOOt , k n   \    O ua Z I  . N  P g o n d   . A D G R
LU ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~LK
UJ(g    W  wo  KANNJdmDAMe
u~~~~~~~~~~~~ ar                                              GUS U          ;                                       adej1,                                                             \L
-  ot     o         -                 BEN, CIT   RA6               MAPoO
B light   of   Benin                     s<       %      j    X   0m_chis                        fg                           L                   -            TRUPoROkDS
| FAe F RT-fR L~ IL iF T qi, ;R. _, -SA             n                                                       tA21/ 0 PKRVICA  PRO FCTS, COTRV CTIOY
Ok A        / /    HAR OL T \7                                                PRr -)                        u PR [V O J~  P C ECT >,  E    N4G I   N  ER ll,YI
MGLES                                   C       ;o                                    4
8,/ght of  8,Dfro                                                 
MAY09 L971                                                                                                                                                                           18RD-2578R2






MAP 2
A13    TO MIAMA
NIGERIA
.JJ  .-                   .-. **. FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
A1 3  .--        ROADS IN THE WESTERN STATE
I ..               ,                        \            ,                       S
0 --   %    >                           >                d             ~~~~~~~~~K W A R A
j9  *.                                                                       ILNR(N CENTRAL WEST)
*1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
/                             \                       ORBO       O -MOS                              -A
I'                                                                            OkYkN            .    .  .tS   Okuku IE
(                                                                                   l >okjirtn         ,lddO
''1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* . .so fb 0
OSHOGBO
Elton~~~~E
k     (                 Al [     X    \s >          x    g        t~~~~     ~ ~~~            ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aloyg  Ado Ek,Ii
Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                                    A9 Gto-g-\/  S.
r                                                /A A9{   Odo Oorfg   vA
 I icy.                                                   )                \)AURE
ONDO
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kb a, I
A~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
GOS*                   A O
. .- .                                         <      t    '9L                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BENIN CITY=
B I GHT               OF              F                -D
TRUNK ROADS "A"l
MOTORABLE ROADS
SAPELE
PREVIOUS PROJECTS, ENGINEERING
PREVIOUS PROJECTS, CONSTRUCTION
PROJECT ROADS
PROJECT BRIDGES
The bo-ndaries sho-., on th t thAr-  \,\                             o
mnply -ndo-e-ntn o- -,cptac hy the                                      UJgh.IIio
............  STATE BOUNDARIES                               World Bbk -a it, affiates 
- - --. - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          0    10   20   30    40    C                                Bu rut
MRILES
FEBRUARY 1972                                                                                                                             IBRD 2585R3



