Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22107
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36420)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$38 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
KAZAKHSTAN
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 23, 2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 7, 2001)
Currency Unit = Kazakhstan Tenge
100 Tenge = US$ 0.69
US$ 1 = 145 Tenge
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC                         Almaty Business Center
AMS                         Almaty Management School
CEL                         Committee for External Loans
CUFC                        Committee for Utilization of
Foreign Capital
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
FEDL                        Finance and Enterprice
Development Loan
FSU                         Former Soviet Union
ICR                         Implementation Completion
Report
IBS                         International Business School
IT                          Information Technology
IMF                         International Monetary Fund
LSMS                        Living Standard Measurement
Survey
NAFI                        National Agency for Foriegn
Investment
NBK                         National Bank of Kazakhstan
NEAP                        National Environment Action
Plan
PIU                         Project Implementation Unit
PPF                         Project Preparation Facility
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
TA                          Technical Assistance
MOF                         Ministry of Finance
MOTC                        Ministry of Transport and
Conmmunication
TOR                         Terms of Reference
IAS                         International Accounting
Standards
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director/Manager:    Pradeep Mitra/Helga Muller
Task Team Leader:    Motoo Konishi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KAZAKHSTAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                12
6. Sustainability                                                                    14
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   17
9. Partner Comments                                                                  17
10. Additional Information                                                           18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                28
Annex 8. Govermnent Contribution to ICR                                              29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008504                                       Project Name: Technical Assistance
Team Leader: Motoo Konishi                                TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 31, 2001
1. Project Data
Nanme: Technical Assistance                         L/C/TF Number: CPL-36420
Country/Department: KAZAKHSTAN                                          Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: KY - Other Economic Policy
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 04/07/1992                               Effective: 10/15/1993         12/22/1993
Appraisal:  09/01/1992                               MTR:
Approval:  08/03/1993                              Closing: 12/31/1995          06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplemeniting Agency: Republic of KAZKHSTAN/Ministry of Economy
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Kiyoshi Kodera                            Russell J. Cheetham
Sector Manager:      Helga Muller                              Kadir T. Yurukoglu
Team Leader at ICR:   Motoo Konishi                            Jacques G. Toureille
ICR Primary, Author:   Lazzat Buranbayeva; Motoo
Konishi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Instituttional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective and design of the project is judged to be satisfactory.
The Technical Assistance Loan was the first loan to Kazakhstan, prepared together with the first
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Kazakhstan. The objectives of the project, as set forth in the



Memorandum of the President dated July 12, 1993, were to: (i) provide assistance in the design and
development of the Government's economic reform policies and programs; (ii) build the institutional
capacity and skills base for implementing these reforms; and (iii) initiate policy work for development of
key sectors of the economy.
While the scope of the project was quite broad and encompassing a large institutional reform and
capacity building agenda (privatization, private sector development, financial sector, social sector, legal
reforn, environmental protection, labor, and administrative structure of the Government), the project
design was sufficiently flexible to enable the Govermment to address the rapidly evolving policy reform
agenda. The use of foreign technical assistance and advice was extremely important at the time, as the
transition process demanded fundamental changes in the system of economic management and govemance.
At the same time, the project helped to create a critical mass of local experts who understood the rules of
the market economy and provided the Govemment with policy advice and state-of the-art-technology. The
project also enabled the Government to design and develop economic reform policies and programs that
were later supported by Bank adjustment and investment operations formulated in the CAS.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
(i)    Privatization and Private Sector Development (US$13.4 million)
a.    Privatization and Enterprise Reform       US$9.9 million
b.    Competition Policy                        US$0.5 million
c.    Foreign Investment Promotion and Regulation   US$3.0 million
(ii)   Financial Sector (US$11.5 million)
a.    Payment System                            US$6.0 million
b.    Accounting and Bank Diagnostic Studies    US$3.5 million
c.    Specialized Financial Services            US$1.0 million
d.    Banking Supervision                       US$1.0 million
(iii)  Social Sector and Human Resources Development (US$5.6 million)
a.    Social Safety Net                         US$1.5 million
b.    Health Care Reform                        US$0.6 million
c.    Training                                  US$3.5 million
(iv)   Institutional Support and Development (US$3.0 million)
a.    Legal Framework                           US$2.0 million
b.    Environment                               US$1.0 million
(v)   Project Implementation (US$3.0 million)
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
Based on the discussion held between the Country Director/Resident Representative and senior
government officials during the 1996 Country Performance Portfolio Review (CPPR), the Government
requested a major reallocation of funds. The rapid transformation of the economy during the mid-1990s
raised a new policy reform agenda that needed to be addressed. As noted below, the new sub-components
that were introduced by the Govemment were highly policy oriented and closely linked with the on-going
policy dialogue with the Bank and preparation of a new generation of adjustment operations. (see Annex 2
for reallocation of funds among components)
New Sub-Components (all under Institutional Support and Development Component)
* civil service reform
* pension reform
* public investment program restructuring
* budget reform
* external debt monitoring and management (including computer hardware and software)
*   treasury modemization (including computer hardware and software development)
* interim treasury system (including computer hardware and software development)
* political risk insurance
Allocation of Additional Funding
* legal reform and legal drafting
* payment systems
* national statistics (computer software and hardware for poverty monitoring, national
accounting)
o institutional support and development (technical assistance for newly created
institutions/agencies and development of networked computer system for the whole government
structure)
*   computer software/hardware and IT equipment
Reduction in Funding (due to availability of grant funding from other development partners)
* privatization and private sector development
* social sector and human resource development
3.5 Quality at Enutiy:
There was no formal Quality at Entry review by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) for this
project. Project preparation was carried out jointly with the Ministry of Economy (MOE) and the project
objectives and the components matched well with the Government's priorities. Terms of reference (ToR)
for the main consultant services were drafted, discussed with the Government and incorporated into the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD). To mitigate the risk stemming from the borrower's unfamiliarity with
the Bank's procurement and disbursement guidelines, international experts were engaged early in project
implementation. One area that could be improved was the level of involvement of line ministries in project
preparation. In some of the components, in particular Privatization and Private Sector Development, the
- 3 -



implementing agencies delayed the consultant hiring process due to disagreement with the ToR or the size
of the foreign technical assistance. Also, the lack of institutional analysis of beneficiary institutions during
the project preparation stage led to less attention being paid to the institution building objectives. However,
this shortcoming was properly addressed through a major reallocation of proceeds of the loan completed
two years after project commencement.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of project objectives was overall satisfactory. The project demonstrated
substantial developmental impact and contributed significantly to the institutional strengthening of the
Government agencies and improvement of their policy making and absorptive capacity. A detailed
assessment of the project outcomes is provided below.
(i)    Provide assistance in the design and development of the Govermment's reform policies and
programs. The project had particular importance for design of the Government's reform programs and
policies, especially at the initial stage of the country's transition to a market economy, and served as the
basis for further assistance both from the Bank and other donors.
The Govemment created a basic legal framework for private and financial sector development.
Currently, there are only a few gaps in the legal framework, and the focus has now shifted to the next step
of developing the regulatory framework. The design of Kazakhstan's three-stage privatization program
was finalized and implemented with the project's support, although the effectiveness of the technical
assistance was undermined by lack of transparency in the Govemment's privatization procedures and
decisions, as well as lack of interest on the part of the implementing agency to use Bank assistance for this
purpose. The project's impact on the development of the banking sector has been quite significant.
National Bank has developed the legal framework for banking activities and strong banking supervision.
Today a reformed and independent National Bank of Kazakhstan (NBK) keeps full control of monetary
policy, and the banking system in Kazakhstan is considered as one of the strongest among the countries of
the former Soviet Union. The project contributed to the design of the social protection program including
an ambitious pension reform program that was further developed and implemented under the Social
Protection and the Pension Reform loans. The education and health sector programs designed under the
project have also been further developed under subsequent World Bank and Asian Development Bank
(ADB) operations. In the environmental sector, the project enabled the development of the National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). Investments and policy reforms recommended by the NEAP are
currently being implemented with the assistance of several multilateral and bilateral agencies. Technical
assistance (TA) provided under the project was the key factor in development of the budget and civil
service reforms and external debt management strategy. New audit, budget, expenditure control, and
treasury systems have been installed to improve the efficiency, management and transparency of public
resource use.
(ii)    Help build the institutional capacity and skills base to carry out the reforms. The loan was the
principal source for financing institutional development of the Government's agencies and other State
executive and legislative bodies during 1994 and 1997 when the Government was facing severe budget
constraints due to continuing economic decline. The successful implementation of the reform program
required building new institutions, and changing the mind set and attitudes of govemmental officials, and
providing these institutions with basic Information Technology (IT) equipment and related services. At the
initial stage of the project, these issues were not properly understood, and the institutional development
- 4 -



component envisaged only consulting services for legal draffing and environmental issues. Therefore, the
loan reallocations were required (in 1995 and in 1996) in order to meet such demand. The importance of
such changes in the project composition cannot be underestimated. It would not be an exaggeration to say
that the project both created the material basis and developed human resources for successful
implementation of the reforms.
(iii) Initiate policy work for the development of key sectors. The project was envisaged to provide TA
primarily in the key sectors of: (a) Privatization and Private Sector Development; (b) Finance; and (c)
Social Protection. Later the project scope was widened to include Public Resource Sector. The policy work
initiated under the project was continued under the Financial and Enterprises Development Loan and Social
Protection Loan and developed further in the course of the Bank's Economic and Sector Work. Policies and
programs designed and developed with the project's support created the basis for the subsequent
policy-based loans: Rehabilitation Loan, Structural Adjustment Loan, Financial Sector Adjustment Loan,
and Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Loan. The TA received by the Government under the
project contributed to creating the basis for reforming the above key sectors. Among major policy works in
the Private Sector are the initial work on case-by-case privatization; design of basic principles of
competition policy; and foreign investments promotion measures. All this work was continued under the
Financial and Enterprises Development project, although with less effectiveness. Impressive results were
achieved in development of the Financial Sector. The project financed interim payment system is now
considered as the satisfactory option approved by the international experts, so there is no need in its
replacement as it was envisaged before. The project contributed to creation of the legal framework for
financial sector development and establishment of the banking supervisory standards. The banking system
effectively adopted the International Accounting Standards (IAS). The project financed design of the
Rehabilitation Bank then became an effective instrument for protection of the banking system from
non-performing loans and distressed enterprises. The policy work initiated under the project was continued
under the Financial and Enterprises Development Loan that was supported by conditions of the Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan. Very significant work was done for the Social Sector. The project financed
development of the poverty monitoring system and initial work on creating the social safety net. The results
of this work were then used for design of the Social Protection Project. In 1997 the Government requested
the support for implementation of the pension reform, the main principles of which were designed with the
technical assistance provided under the project. The project funds were also used for initial design of the
health sector that then was continued under the Health Sector Reform Project. In the Public Sector, the
project effectively contributed to the initiation of the budget reform and establishing effective debt
management system. Therefore, the project demonstrated strong development results, and in some cases the
objective to initiate policy work in key sectors was substantially exceeded.
4.2 Outputs by comnponents:
Delivery of the project components was overall satisfactory with both unsatisfactory and highly
satisfactory results under various subcomponents. A detailed assessment of the outputs is presented below.
Component 1: Privatization and Private Sector Development.
The original design of the component, presented in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) dated June
12, 1993, included the following subcomponents: (a) privatization and enterprise reform; (b) competition
policy; and (c) foreign investment promotion and regulation (see paragraph 3.3 above). The objectives of
the component were the following: (i) continue development of the Government's privatization program and
assist in its implementation, with a particular emphasis on mass privatization; (ii) encourage competition
through improvement of anti-monopoly policies; and (iii) improve the policy and fiscal regime for foreign
investments. To evaluate the development outcome of this component, the following performance indicators
- 5 -



were established: (i) completion of second stage mass privatization; (ii) improvement in the Government's
capacity to handle privatization of very large enterprises; (iii) improvement in the Government's capacity
to provide financial and operational oversight over State Owned Enterprises; (iv) development and
enforcement of anti-monopoly, fair trade, consumer protection and other policies aimed at enhancing
competition; and (v) development of policy, legal and institutional framework for promotion and regulation
of foreign investment.
(a) Privatization and enterprise reform. The project envisaged significant financing of consulting
services to mass privatization program (US$6.1 million) and relatively small funds for consulting services
for case-by-case privatization program (US$0.4 million), considered to be supplementary to bilateral grant
funds. The subcomponent also included advisory services on corporate governance and enterprise
restructuring (US$1.5 million) and funds for procurement of equipment for implementing agency (US$1.9
million). Thus the total funds allocated to this component were US$9.9 million. Only US$0.88 million, or
less than 10% was utilized until the project closing date. However, the performance indicators were
effectively achieved. During the two year period that followed the launch of the three-stage privatization
program in early 1994, over 11,000 establishments (2/3 of the eligible objects) were sold under the
small-scale privatization program and share packages of about 1,900 joint stock companies were offered
under the mass privatization program. The speed of the implementation was overwhelming, and by the time
the consultants for mass privatization were finally selected through complicated and time-consuming
international competitive bidding (hampered additionally with lack of procurement skills in the
implementing agencies), their services were no longer required (Kazakhstan had utilized grant funding
made available by other bilateral and multilateral agencies).  Given that the contribution by the
subcomponents was marginal (despite achievement of the perforrnance target), the implementation of this
subcomponent is evaluated as unsatisfactory. The rating of this component differs from that of the
Government, with the Government rating the implementation of this component as satisfactory. The reason
for the difference is due to the fact that the Government rating refers to the successful completion of the
privatization program, whereas the Bank rating included the quality of the privatization program. As noted
earlier, the effectiveness of the technical assistance was undermined by the lack of transparency in the
Government's privatization procedures and decisions, as well as lack of interest on the part of the
implementing agency to use Bank assistance for implementing the program.
(b) Competition policy. This sub-component included TA to design the anti-monopoly policy
(US$0.5 million). The objective of this sub-component was fully achieved using both the Bank funds under
the project and funds made available by partner bilateral agency. Savings arose because of the partnership
with bilateral donors, and some of the savings were used to procure IT equipment for the implementing
agency, State Committee for Price and Anti-Monopoly policy. The implementation of this sub-component
is evaluated as satisfactory.
(c) Foreign investment promotion and regulation. The objective of this sub-component was to
develop policy, legal and institutional frameworks for promotion and regulation of foreign investment. The
implementation of this sub-component was suspended after one of the implementing agencies - National
Agency for Foreign Investments (NAFI), was disbanded in 1995, and then was resumed again in 1998 after
establishment of the State Investment Committee, subsequently renamed Investment Agency. The
sub-component was designed to use two relatively large consultant contracts to carry out the required work.
Due to the dissolution of NAFI, both contracts were terminated in 1995. In 1998, with establishment of the
State Investment Committee, the sub-component was revived again with allocation of US$250,000 for
consulting services and training and US$150,000 for IT equipment. The equipment was approved and
procured shortly after the reallocation and staff of the State Investment Committee participated in several
training activities. The fund for consulting services was used for several consulting contracts with local
-6 -



lawyers' companies. The focus was on very specific professional issues (development of the standard
incentive package, legislation on oil and subsoil use, design of the political risk insurance scheme to
promote foreign investments) and professional training, as well as on supporting foreign investments in
non-extracting sectors. These activities had very concrete development outcomes: (i) standard information
package for foreign investors was introduced, facilitating the work with foreign investors and providing
better transparency of decisions; (ii) amendments to the Law on Oil and Law on Subsoil Use were effected
and now provide the basis for investments in the extracting sector; and (iii) preparation of the political
guarantee scheme is currently underway. While the initial shortcomings in implementation were somewhat
overcome, the full impact of the component was never realized. The achievement of this sub-component is
judged to be satisfactory.
The overall assessment of the component output shows that while the development objectives were
eventually achieved, the project itself did not contribute to the privatization and private sector development
in the country. In view of this, the overall implementation of the component is evaluated as marginally
satisfactory.
Component 2: Financial Sector Development.
The original design of the component included four subcomponents: (a) payment system; (b)
accounting and bank diagnostic studies; (c) special financial services; and (d) bank supervision. The
following were the principle objectives: (i) modernization of the payment system; (ii) introduction of
international accounting and auditing standards; (iii) strengthening bank supervision; and (iv)
transformation of commercial banking system. The progress in implementation was to be evaluated by the
following performance indicators: (i) development of accounting and auditing capabilities; and (ii)
completion of restructuring studies for major banks. It should be noted that these indicators did not reflect
such important project achievements as design and initial development of the payment system; design of
banking sector reform based on in-depth analysis of the major bank comprising 80% of banking system,
and design principles of banking supervision. The results of the implementation of the component exceeded
all its major relevant objectives, and substantial development results were achieved.
Kazakhstan has made impressive progress in strengthening the commercial banking system. At the
beginning of the reform program, the NBK tightened its enforcement of prudential rules, and the number of
banks was reduced from 184 to 82 between 1994 and 1997. Most state banks were restructured and
privatized, the number of banks with state held shares was reduced from 180 in 1994 to 5 in 1998. Since
1995, together with changes in the tax code, banks have been required to classify loans. This has resulted
in proper provisioning for doubtful loans. NBK, based on in-depth diagnostic studies, undertook
case-by-case treatment of large problem banks. A special vehicle - Rehabilitation Bank - was introduced to
protect the banking sector from distressed enterprises and non-performing loans. Banking legislation was
effectively developed providing proper legal framework for banking activities. All of these measures helped
to ensure healthy banking sector development. Interbank payments and liquidity management was
facilitated through the new monetary and payment instruments and an interbank payment system.
(a) Payment system: The project financed consulting services for design and preparation of the
technical specifications for the equipment and software as well as training requirements for installing an
interim inter-bank payment system. Computers were procured and software was developed, tested, and
installed.   Presently, the system is fully functional.  The impressive progress in payment system
development made under the TA loan provides a basis for a highly satisfactory assessment. The
Government assessment of the component includes some criticism or shortcoming of one of the foreign
technical assistance. The Bank concurs with this assessment. However, this should not detract from the
fact that the well functioning payment system was indeed installed and made operational.
- 7-



(b) Diagnostic studies of banks: With the support from the project, the Government hired leading
international audit firms to provide diagnostic studies of 11 of the largest commercial banks. These studies
were the first audit experience for Kazakhstan's banks and provided a comprehensive picture of the
banking sector at the time. The studies provided the factual basis for further policy decisions in the
banking sector and some significant sector restructuring activities (bankruptcy of KRAMDS-bank;
restructuring of loan portfolio of the Agroprombank; merger of Turan and Alem Bank; and liquidation of
Igilik Bank). Despite some minor shortcomings, the project under this subcomponent achieved its
development objectives and demonstrated satisfactory results.
(c) Specialized Financial Services: The NBK decided not to proceed with the implementation of
this sub-component as some of the issues (analysis of bad loans and term lending) were addressed under the
bank diagnostic studies and other issues were included in the Institutional Support and Development
component (consulting services on establishment of the Rehabilitation Bank, technical support to the
Development Bank). The funds allocated to this component in 1995 were reallocated for other purposes.
(d) Banking supervision and design of prudential regulations: The project substantially
contributed to the development of strong banking supervision and the design of a set of prudential
regulations. Intemational consultants provided policy advice on issues related to banking supervision and
examinations, developed guidelines and manuals, provided recommendations on IT technology, and
provided training for more than 40 banking supervision personnel. The consultant's output was considered
as highly satisfactory, and development objectives of the subcomponent were fully achieved. The
subcomponent results are therefore evaluated as highly satisfactory.
Overall assessment of the implementation results of the Financial Sector components proves that
under this component the project achieved and even exceeded all its major relevant objectives and
substantial development results without major shortcomings. The foundations for the development of the
financial sector that were established with the project's support proved to be very prudent and sustainable
and ensured successful development of Kazakhstan's banking sector. The stability and resistance to
extemal shock was clearly demonstrated during the financial crises in Russia in August 1998. Thus, the
implementation results of the component are evaluated as highly satisfactory. The Govemment rated the
component as satisfactory. The difference in the rating comes mainly from Govermment rating the
performance of the consultants (some of which performed poorly and much slower than the client's
timetable) vis a vis their high costs, whereas the Bank rated the performnance based on what was actually
accomplished by the component. The Bank concurs with the Govenmment's opinion, however, that in some
contracts the intemational consultants performed poorly.
Component 3: Social Sector and Human Resources Development.
The original design of the component included the following subcomponents: (a) social safety net;
(b) health care reform; and (c) training. The following were the principal objectives: (i) design and
implementation of policies and programs to provide unemployment relief; (ii) introduction of social
protection policies targeted to most vulnerable groups of society and development of mechanisms for
poverty monitoring; and (iii) development of new policies and programs in health care reform and provision
of training in areas where serious skills gaps exist. The following performance indicators were selected to
demonstrate the project outcomes: (i) development and execution of social, health, and human resource
policies, particularly in the areas of unemployment relief, social protection targets to the most vulnerable
groups; and (ii) training and upgrade of job skills in banking, accounting, public sector services and
enterprise management.
(a) Social Safety Net: The subcomponent envisaged financing of consulting services and training
on: employment issues, social protection issues, provision of assistance to establish a poverty monitoring
- 8 -



system, and procurement of IT equipment for the implementing agencies, Ministry of Labor (MOL),
Ministry of Social Protection, and State Statistical Committee. A study tour was organized for senior staff
of the MOL to introduce staff to the principles of labor market analysis, and familiarize them with the
national employment service system, including its system of unemployment support, staff eligibility,
integrated IT, and the institutional arrangements and communication lines with its regional offices. The
study tour yielded satisfactory results with the Ministry having a very good grasp of the functions to be
introduced in this area. Very important work was done on implementation of the Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) which provided the factual basis for development of the social protection
policy, as well as on-the-job training for the staff of the implementing agency. Another foreign advisor was
hired to develop the system for analysis of data obtained in the course of the survey. The implementing
agency also carried out small consulting contracts to develop a sample for the family budget survey and
procure software. The TA (consulting services, training and small procurement of office equipment)
provided to the Ministry of Social Protection contributed significantly towards strengthening the
institutional capacity of the implementing agency and development of an ambitious pension reform
program supported subsequently by the Bank's policy-based Pension Reform loan. The project also
financed procurement of IT equipment related to the project activities for the State Statistical Agency, the
Ministry of Social Protection, and the MOL. Overall assessment of subcomponent's results is highly
satisfactory.
(b) Health Care Reform: The technical assistance (consulting services and training) provided
under this sub-component helped to develop coherent health finance policies, strengthen financing,
budgeting and planning and improve pharmaceuticals procurement. Consultants arranged a study-tour
program for senior staff of the Ministry of Health (MOH) to learn the principles of alternative health
financing in OECD countries. The small procurement of IT equipment also contributed in building up the
institutional capacity of the implementing agency, MOH. The policy designed under the project created the
basis for the Health Sector Reform Project. The development results of the subcomponent are considered
to be highly satisfactory.
(c) Training: This sub-component was originally envisaged to provide training in three major
fields: (i) Financial Sector; (ii) Enterprise Management; and (iii) Public Sector Management. In 1995, the
financial sector training was dropped due to sufficient grant funding provided by a multilateral agency for
Almaty Banking Center (ABC) which conducted, among other things, training for bankers and bank
accountants envisaged under the project. The training programs of ABC were closely supervised by the
Bank team, and this center contributed significantly to development of institutional capacity of the banking
sector in Kazakhstan. Unfortunately, the issues of sustainability were not properly addressed and ABC is
now non-operational due to lack of financing. The Enterprise Management Training Program (EMTP) was
implemented with assistance from the Foreign Management Institute, and included not only training
activities, but also development of the local training capacities at the Almaty Management School (AMS).
During the second stage of this program financed under Federal Enterprise Development Loan (FEDL),
another local training institution - International Business School (IBS) - was involved. Both these
institutions also participated in the Public Sector Management Training program, which was implemented
with assistance of the Department of Employment Education and Training (DEET), Australia, along the
same principles as the EMTP. In both cases the issues of sustainability were properly addressed, and today
two local institutes, AMS and IBS, continue to provide training for enterprise managers and personnel and
for civil servants even though the financing from the loan is completed. The results of implementation of
this component are considered to be satisfactory.
Under the component, the project achieved its major development objectives, initiated policy works
in social sector, and contributed to development of the human resources of the country and comprehension
of market economy principles. Overall assessments of results of implementation of the Social Sector and
-9-



Human Resource Development component is highly satisfactory.
Component 4: Institutional Support and Development
The original design of the component included two subcomponents: (a) legal framework; and (b)
environment. The principle objectives of the component were as follows: (i) support introduction of broad
based legal and regulatory reforms; and (ii) improve strategies for environmental issues.
(a) Legal Reform: The legal assistance provided under this sub-component was very important
for the country's transition to a market economy. The assistance provided by an international law firm
enabled Kazakhstan to effectively develop a comprehensive legal framework, including preparation of the
Civil Code (General Part); Civil Procedure Code; Administrative Code; Law on Bills of Exchange and
Promissory Notes, Criminal Code, and Criminal Procedure Code, within a short period of time. Another
legal reform activity completed was drafting the banking legislation for NBK. During the later stage of the
project implementation, the funds were used to finance local legal consultancy firms and individuals for
drafting of very specific laws. Despite some shortcomings, the legal reform subcomponent of the project
has succeeded in achieving its development objectives and is considered satisfactory.
(b) Environment: This sub-component aimed at: (i) institutional strengthening of the Ministry of
Ecology and Bioresources; (ii) strengthening environmental review and audit capabilities; and (iii)
formulating environmental priorities. This particular consulting contract was one of the very few examples
of successful results under a very large, multipurpose, complex and lengthy assignment. This was
accomplished through very close supervision of consultant's work by the Bank, effective counterpart
arrangements, accurate phasing of the assignment with clear defined deliverables at each stage; and an
effective interim reporting system. One of the important results of the project and the consultant's work is
the design and preparation of the NEAP. The sub-component also financed computers and office equipment
for the Ministry of Ecology and Bioresources.  The subcomponent implementation is considered
satisfactory.
(c) Institutional revelopment: This sub-component provided consulting services, training and
procurement of goods to Government agencies and state bodies not directly subordinated to the
Government, Parliament, and Presidential Administration. The project provided funds to these agencies to
hire consultants to assist in carrying out their tasks in design and implementation of economic reform
policies and programs, and to provide training and supply basic equipment to the personnel of these
agencies. The sub-component assisted in a number of areas, e.g. helped the MOF to meet and implement
policy actions related to the Public Sector Resource Management Adjustment Loan; TA focused on
building up capacity for public investment program development; introduced new principles of budget
process; development of draft law for external borrowing and external debt management and establishing
data processing capacities; design of the Rehabilitation Bank, which became an effective isolation
instrument in financial sector development. The project provided funds to hire local consultants and for
staff training for Agency on Civil Service, MOF, and Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC).
The availability of funds for procurement of basic office equipment and computers became especially
important after the capital of Kazakhstan was moved from Almaty to Astana in December 1997. Total
amount assigned to procurement of goods (mainly computers software/hardware and IT equipment) under
the subcomponent amounted to $14 million, an increase from the original allocation of $8.5 million. The
development objective of TA in institutional building was fully achieved and this component is considered
as satisfactory.
The overall assessment of the results of implementation of the Institutional Development and
Support component is considered satisfactory.
- 1 0 -



Component 5: Project Implementation
This component was envisaged to build the Bank project management and implementation capacity as well
as facilitate preparation of other Bank operations. The ultimate objective was the establishment and
operation of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the MOE with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including the overall coordination and administration of the activities to be carried
out under the project and the procurement of goods and services required therefore.
The implementation of this component was frequently hampered due to reorganizations in the
Government's agencies and re-assignment of PIU responsibilities to various agencies. The PIU, initially
established in the MOE, was renamed and reorganized four times during project implementation. Staff
changes were more frequent. The PIU staff, having been trained in project management, procurement and
disbursement, were highly sought after, with most of the staff accepting lucrative positions in the private
sector after one year on the job. There were also times when the division of responsibilities among different
Government agencies for project implementation was left unclear, leading to territorial disputes for project
supervision responsibilities. All these transformations adversely affected the functioning of the PIU and its
institutional capacity. These difficulties were further exaggerated by the move of the capital of Kazakhstan
from Almaty to Astana, with subsequent move of all Government agencies.
Despite high staff turnover and changes in management, project management and implementation
was satisfactory due to the relatively high caliber staff that worked in the PIU. It did, however, impose a
very high cost in terms of Bank supervision and use of foreign disbursement and procurement oversight.
The objective of building a permanent capacity for project management was only partially fulfilled. For
these reasons, the implementation results of the component are considered marginally satisfactory. The
Government rated this component satisfactory. The main reason for the difference in the rating is that the
Government rated the component on the basis that the project implementation was carried out satisfactorily
despite the large number of contracts (107), large number of clientele (37 ministries and agencies) and three
major changes in organizational arrangement for project implementation. The Bank concurs with the
Government's assessment that the performance of the PIU was indeed satisfactory in face of these
difficulties. However, the Bank rating included consideration for whether permanent, sustainable capacity
was built in the PIU to handle Bank procurement and disbursement, which was at best marginal.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Instit,ftional development impact:
The project had substantial institutional development impact, considerably improving the country's
ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources. The project improved the government's
ability to successfully implement economic reforms that required, inter alia, building new institutions while
dismantling old ones and changing the mind set and attitudes of enterprise managers and govemment
officials. Implementing agencies acquired modern IT platforms which helped improve their efficiency and
which, without the project, would have taken much longer. Advisory assistance, training and equipment
provided under the project constitute the basis on which the country's institutional capacity was built.
Overall, the project contributed significantly to Kazakhstan's rapid and significant progress in economic
- 11 -



transformation, and the achievement of macroeconomic and financial stability.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implenmenting agency.
* High staff turnover caused by more lucrative offers from the private sector contributed to some
delays in implementation and marginally satisfactory results for capacity building.
*   The govemment was disappointed with the performance of some of the larger intemational
consultant contracts, which resulted in termination of the contract as well as the component
*   Provision of grant funding from intemational and bilateral donors resulted in cancellation of
several sub-components. However, in all cases, the intended objectives and outcomes were
achieved.
5.2 Factors genierally subject to governmenzt control:
* Change in Government's priorities. This factor was the major reason for re-allocation of the loan
proceeds. First, after completing the original reform agenda, the Government, in agreement with
the Bank, added new policy reform initiatives to be funded under the project. These included civil
service reform, budget reform, extemal debt monitoring and management, treasury modemization,
pension reform and political risk insurance. Second, the Govenmnent shifted focus of the project
towards institutional and government capacity development. These shifts were made through the
major reallocation and review exercise carried out by the Bank and the Government in 1996. This
factor partially affected pace of project implementation, but overall the changes made in 1996
increased project effectiveness.
* Frequent change of Government's structure and counterpart arrangements. This factor had a
substantial effect, both on project implementation and its outcomes. The most significant was the
splitting of the State Property Committee and closure of NAFI, which practically suspended the
implementation of the Privatization and Private Sector Development component. On the other
hand, when the counterpart arrangements remained stable, Ministry of Social Protection, NBK,
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Ecology, the project proved to be highly satisfactory. The high
turnover of the key personnel involved in project implementation was the other major factor leading
to implementation delays.
*  Changes in Government's rules for utilization of the budget resources and TA. This factor had a
substantial effect on the project implementation and outcomes. For example, in 1995 the
Government introduced a rule which required government agencies to repay the funds used from
the loan proceeds. As a result, some beneficiaries rejected the use of the project funds, including
the Ministry of Geology, the Almaty Banking Center(ABC), and two subcomponents, assistance to
mining sector and financial sector training, were dropped. The rule was abolished the following
year. Similarly, more stringent rules for consultants engagement introduced in 1999 also led to
non-use of loan proceeds.
*  Move to Astana. During 1998-1999, the majority of the Government and other beneficiary
agencies moved from Almaty to the new capital city of Astana. This was a major organizational
and logistical challenge which resulted in significant delays in project implementation during this
period. This event also had a substantial affect on project implementation.
- 12 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
*   Frequent change of key personnel involved in the project implementation. This factor had a
substantial effect on project implementation and outcome and led to an increase in the direct cost
of project implementation. This instability was partially the result of constant reorganizations and
transformations both of the implementing agencies themselves and their internal structures. At the
same time, staff had low motivation to stay within the civil services once they had upgraded their
qualifications and acquired new skills.
*   Lack of interest in utilizing the TA. This had a substantial effect on project implementation and
outcome and was caused by two factors: (i) insufficient involvement of the beneficiary agencies in
project preparation, the only agency actively involved in project preparation was the MOE; and (ii)
lack of implementation capacity.
*   Decision making process. This factor also had a substantial effect on project implementation. A
slow and inefficient decision making process led to major delays in the project implementation and
adversely affected the project results, especially at the initial stages when bid evaluation or contract
negotiations took 6-10 months. This was due to: (i) lack of the implementation capacity; (ii)
unclear division of responsibilities between the personnel; and (iii) lack of decision making
authority with key personnel directly involved in project management. In addition, very large
contracts accepted at the initial stage of project implementation were difficult for the counterpart
agency to manage and laid excessive burden of responsibility on the decision making person. In
many instances, the reluctance to take responsibility for signing consulting contracts for very large
amounts caused inordinate delays at the negotiation stage, even when the price was not included in
the bidding proposal. The issue may be partially addressed both through improvement of
implementation skills, use of simpler procurement procedures and use of smaller contracts.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost was estimated at US$39.5 million with an Bank loan of $38.0 million and
Government contribution of US$1.5 million. Shortly before the original closing date of June 30, 1996, the
Government requested a major reallocation of funds: to move the unused funds from "Privatization and
Private Sector Development" ($11 million) and "Financial Sector Development" ($5 million) components
to "Institutional Development and Support" component. The Bank agreed to the shift based on the
following factors: (i) TA requirement for the private sector and financial sector development issues were
already being financed by another Bank loan, the Finance and Enterprise Development Project, and other
bilateral and multilateral donor agencies; (ii) address of the newly identified policy reform agenda in the
areas of civil service reform, budget reform, treasury modernization, and pension reform; (iii) strengthening
of newly created institutions (civil service, foreign investment, etc.) and (iv) modernization of government's
IT system.
Delays in Project Implementation
Disbursement (US$ million)
FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00   TOTAL
Appraisal          12.00    14.00    12.00                                        38.00
Actual     0.0+     4.44     8.88     6.86     7.52     5.23     2.29     0.88    36.70
The delays were caused by the following factors:
- 13 -



FY93-FY94:
*   lack of implementation capacity of the Borrower led to significant delays in the consultants'
contracting process, especially at the negotiation stage;
*   change in the Government's structure with move of implementation responsibilities from the
Ministry of Economy to NAFI (then to CUFC);
*   re-organization of some implementation agencies; and
*   lack of experience with using foreign consultants including language problems that lowered the
interest in using foreign technical assistance.
FY96:
*   reorganization of the central implementing agency;
*   Government's request for reallocation due to new priorities.
FY98-FY99:
*   relocation of government to Astana
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project is highly likely to be sustainable. The Government's ability to design and develop
economic reform policies and programs has been greatly enhanced, and institutional capacity for
implementing reforms has been significantly strengthened as noted by strong performance of recent
structural adjustment operations in the country. The speed with which the Kazakhstani economy and the
financial sector recovered from the 1998 Russian financial crisis, and the masterful management it
demonstrated in floating the Kazakh national currency in the midst of this crisis demonstrates the high
degree of economic management capacity that has been developed in the country. While the pace of
privatization has slowed somewhat in recent years, the majority of enterprises have been privatized.
Reallocation of project proceeds in 1996 and the subsequent use of loan funds for addressing a new policy
reform agenda indicate strong and continued commitment by the Govermnent to economic reform.
However, the most evident indicator of sustainability is the number of new lending projects, including
adjustment loans, that were prepared using this project. The project also helped to build (i) the practice of
using consultants; (ii) the capacity to draft detailed ToRs; (iii) the practice of using smaller, issue specific
consultancy contracts; and (iv) the demand for local consulting capacity.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Project preparation and appraisal are considered satisfactory. The Bank team consisted of 15 core
team members and nine specialists, covering all the core subject matters to be addressed in the project,
macro, privatization, private sector development, banking, finance, environment, mining, health, social
- 14 -



sector, including disbursement and procurement specialists. Detailed TORs for all the components, 20 in
total, were prepared and agreed upon with the Government during preparation, and detailed implementation
and implementation management plans were prepared. Foreign disbursement and procurement advisors
were hired to assist in project implementation from the beginning. An intense dialogue was held with the
Ministry of Economy during preparation. Also significant coordination was made with the IMF and other
bilateral and multilateral donor agencies to avoid overlap and to ensure coverage of the most urgent reform
issues. If anything can be faulted with the Bank's performance, there would be two points: (i) too many
reform topics being dealt with simultaneously; and (ii) insufficient dialogue and preparatory work with
some of the implementing ministries and agencies. The project used 132 staff weeks, US$320,000, from
identification to negotiation. Performance of the Bank is considered satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The project used 251 staffweeks for supervision time at a cost of US$642,000. In view of the lack
of the Borrower's implementation capacity, arrangements were made to ensure close and intensive Bank
supervision. Because of the large number of specialized studies to be undertaken, a task coordinator was
appointed to coordinate overall supervision, including management of procurement and disbursement, and
specific sector specialists were assigned to work directly with the implementing sectoral ministries and
agencies on the substance of policy reforms.
The records from supervision missions and annual reports from the PIU show that Bank
performance on supervision has been overall satisfactory. Supervision missions were generally well
documented and Project Status Reports (PSR) were completed and provided realistic assessments of the
project performance.
An adequate mix of skills was present during the project cycle. Despite changes in the
implementation arrangements after 1996, the Bank team managed to ensure continuity of the project
implementation providing close supervision and timely advice to the PIU and the implementing line
ministries. Performance of the Bank is considered satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. The project has delivered many development results,
which were originally envisaged, and has achieved satisfactory development rating for both development
objectives and implementation progress. The project was not at any time considered to be at major risk.
- 15 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's preparation of the project was overall satisfactory. The MOE, responsible for
design of economic reforms for the Government, actively participated in the project design and appraisal,
providing the Bank with all of the relevant information and comments. The cooperation provided by the
Borrower was critical in ensuring that the objectives and priorities were relevant to the country's needs and
in line with the Borrower's expectations. There were no major delays in signing and effectiveness of the
project. More emphasis, however, should have been placed on consultation with implementing line
ministries. This would have reduced the confusion that occurred at the initial implementation stage.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
At the initial stage of the project, the Government performance was hampered by lack of the
implementation capacity and several changes in implementation arrangements. Negotiation of consultants'
contracts took 6 to 10 months, evaluation of bid proposals also took a significant amount of time.
Furthermore, transfer of implementation responsibilities, twice in two years, and accompanied change in
implementation arrangements caused significant delays in project implementation. The situation improved
in 1995 after the central implementation unit was finally settled with the Committee for External Loans
(CEL) in the MOF and the first reallocation was done to release funds from components that were not
progressing.
In 1996, the Government requested major reallocation of the proceeds of the loan in order to
address new priorities and to provide additional financing for some of the on-going project components.
The reallocation was completed in September 1996, and with improved implementation capacity due to
training and experience accumulated over time, the Government performance improved significantly. The
beneficiaries demonstrated strong commitment and motivation. Although, the move of the Government to
Astana in 1997-1998 affected the path of the project implementation, the Government ensured the
continuity in implementation.
7.6 Inmplementing Agency:
Implementation arrangements for the project were changed several times. The central agency
responsible for project implementation reorganized five times resulting in high turnover of staff. During
certain periods there were no clear divisions of responsibilities in respect to project implementation, which
created competition between the agencies and affected project implementation. When the implementation
responsibilities were fnally assigned to the CEL in 1995, the implementation agency started to work
satisfactorily.
The CEL was adequately staffed and had sufficient authority to ensure effective project
implementation. The project financed training for CEL personnel and procurement of computers. CEL took
the lead in procurement, disbursement, and project coordination. Later, when the CEL was dissolved
shortly after the Government's relocation to Astana, project management responsibilities were moved to the
MOF and they managed to keep key personnel involved in the project and ensure continuity. Bank
procedures have been followed in accordance with the Loan Agreement and Bank's guidelines, and
deliverables such as audit of financial reports and annual project implementation reports were delivered on
time.
- 16 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. The project achieved its development objectives
and provided the basis for sustainable development of its outcomes. The Borrower demonstrated
commitment to the project objectives and active involvement in project implementation. The implementation
capacity developed under the project was disseminated to various Government agencies. The project was
not at any time considered to be at major risk.
8. Lessons Learned
(i)    Importance of linking TA activities to specific policy reform operations  One of the major
contributions of the project was to carryout technical studies required for preparing policy based
operations. This project contributed to preparation of five adjustment operations, two investment loans, the
NEAP and the joint World Bank/IMF Treasury Modernization Project. Readily available funding, the
speed with which Bank technical specialists were made available to the Government to tackle new policy
reform issues, and understanding and familiarity with Bank procurement guidelines contributed to making
the project highly useful to the Government.
(ii)   Preparation of the TA projects should be based on functional analysis of the beneficiarv agencies
and their role in the Government's structure as well as Borrower's implementation arrangements. The
assessment of the institutional capacity and institutional development goals of the beneficiary agencies
should be an integral part of the project preparation process. The Borrower should outline the role of each
of the beneficiary agencies in achieving the development objectives and establish the institutional
development component in the project to achieve this goal. There was insufficient attention paid to this
aspect of the development objectives in the original project design.
(iii)   Moderate or small sized and targeted consultant assignments tend to be much more effective than
large omnibus assignments that cover a large number of subiect matters. Consultant assignments greater
than or equal to US$1 million tended to take much longer to procure. More moderate or smaller sized
assignments were procured at less than half of the time with more tangible results. The Government
showed strong preference for the latter.
(iv) The close supervision of the TA loan is a key element to the success of the proiect. Supervision
should be carried out by high level professional Bank staff and involve meaningful and continued dialogue
with the Borrower to find the best approach to the project, rather than close control over the Borrower's
activities. Bank experts should provide professional advice on related issues and assist the Government in
identifying the providers of such assistance and in preparation of the ToRs. A good model is the
supervision of the environment sub-component of the project, which delivered highly satisfactory results.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowt'erlimplementing agency:
See Government comments and contribution in Annex 8
(b) Cofinanciers:
- 17 -



Not Applicable
(c) Otlher partners (NGOs/private sector)):
Not Applicable
10. Additional Information
None
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Im  act Indicators:
Pd~*riMaflh                                                              Aduakt   Esnwte
1) Completion of second phase mass     The second phase of mass privatization is   The second stage of the mass privatization is
privatization                          successfully completed by 1996, however,  completed by 1996. Results are
without serious project contribution. About  controversial: while program provided rapid
19,00 joint stock companies were privatized  transformation of the ownership, the fair
under the mass privatization program.  distribution of the state property among the
population was not achieved.
2) Improvement in Govemment capacity to  The main principles for the case-by-case  The principles for case-by-case privatization
handle privatization of very large enterprises  privatization are established with the Bank's  were not fully implemented, and
support. Project funds envisaged for the  case-by-case privatization suffered from lack
implementation of the case-by-case     of transparency.
prvatization were not fully utilized.
3) improvement in Government capacity to  The State Property Register is established   The State Property Register is established
provide financial and operational oversight   with the project support.       with the project support.
over State Owned Enterprises
4) Develop and enforce anti-monopoly, fair  The anti-monopoly policy is designed with   The anti-monopoly policy is designed with
trade, consumer protection and other policies the project support.            the project support.
aimed at enhancing competition
5) Development and policy, legal and   (i) Standard intensive package was     (i) Standard intensive package was
institutional framework for promotion and    introduced facilitating the work with foreign   introduced facilitating the work with foreign
regulation of foreign investment       investors and providing better transparency  investors and providing better transparency
of decisions; (ii) amendments to the Law on  of decisions; (ii) amendments to the Law on
Oil and Law on Subsoil Use were effected    Oil and Law on Subsoil Use were effected
and now provide basis for operations in  and now provide basis for operations in
extraction sector; and (iii) preparation of the  extraction sector; and (iii) preparation of the
political guarantee scheme is currently  political guarantee scheme is currently
underway.                              underway.
6) Development of accounting and auditing  The IAS are introduced for banking sector   The IAS are introduced for banking sector
capabilities                           from 1998 and for enterprise sector from    from 1998 and for enterprise sector from
2000.                                  2000.
7) Carry out restructuring studies for major Restructuring studies have been carried out Restructuring studies have been carried out
banks                                 for 11 of the largest commercial banks.  for 11 of the largest commercial banks.
8) Development and exection of social,   (i) LSMS is carried out; (ii) the policies  (i) LSMS is carried out; (ii) the policies
health, and human resources policies,  designed with the project support is   designed with the project support are
particularly in the areas of unemployment    continued under subsequent Bank's  continued under subsequent Bank's
relief, social protection targets to the most   operations: Social Protection Loan; Heaflth   operations: Social Protection Loan; Health
vulnerable groups.                     Restructuring Loan and Pension Reform  Restructuring Loan and Pension Reform
Loan.                                  Loan.
9) Training and upgrade job skills in  US$ 2.2 million was effectively utilized to  US$ 2.2 million was effectively utilized to
banking, accounting, public sector service    provide training to civil servants and  provide training to civil servants and
and enterprse management               enterprise managers and to establish training enterprise managers and to establish training
capacity in the country.               capacity in the country.
10) Preparation of various legislations to    The comprehensive legal framework was    Project contributed a lot to the development
establish legal basis for a market economy   effectively developed with the project  of the legal framework in the country,
support.                               however, the Govemment, in two cases,
was not fully satisfied with the legal
consultants' services provided.
- 19 -



11) strengthen institutional capacity for the The project provided funds to Kazakhstan for The project provided funds to Kazakhstan for
Govemment to manage implementation of   institutional development in a time of severe  institutional development in a time of severe
externally funded projects             budget constraints and contributed to  budget constraints and contributed to
building a comprehension of market     building a comprehension of market
economy, the objecives of the reform and   economy, the objectives of the reform and
its policies and tools, including the utility of IT its policies and tools, including the utility of IT
technologies in increasing administrative    technologies in increasing administrative
efficiency.                            efficiency.
Output Indicators:
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Component (in US$ million e uivalent)
Appraisal   ActualLatest   Percentage of
..tima.t      Estimate       Appraisal
_ _o__ _ _ _   cost___ __ ___ __ _ _nt_ Ul$n milJon  US$ millon
Privatization and Pnvate Sector Development          13.82           2.40             17
Financial Sector                                     11.74           6.60             56
Social Sector and Human Resources Development         5.99           5.20             87
Institutional Support and Development                 3.17          20.40            643
Project Implementation                                3.23           4.20            130
Total Baseline Cost                                  37.95          38.80
Physical Contingencies                               1.55           0.10
Total Project Costs             39.50          38.90
Total Financing Required             39.50           38.90    _
:roect Costs by Procuremet Arran ements (A  raisal Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
ProcuemMent Method
_E~(PWdltLICategOrY      PIC>.Jreinn                              N.B,F,K    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     7.00          0.00          1.57         0.00         8.57
(7.00)       (0.00)        (1.57)       (0.00)       (8.57)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         28.93         0.00         28.93
(0.00)       (0.00)       (28.93)        (0.00)      (28.93)
4. Miscellaneous - Local     0.00          0.00          0.50         0.00         0.50
Consultants
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.50)       (0.00)       (0.50)
Total                      7.00         0.00          31.00         0.00        38.00
._____________ _ .(7.00)   (0.00)       (31.00)       (0.00)       (38.00)
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                        16.80           0.00           1.85           0.00         18.65
(16.80)        (0.00)         (1.85)         (0.00)       (18.65)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00          19.30          0.00          19.30
(0.00)         (0.00)        (19.30)        (0.00)        (19.30)
4. Miscellaneous - Local         0.00           0.00           0.05           0.00          0.05
Consultants
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.05)         (0.00)         (0.05)
Total                        16.80           0.00          21.20           0.00         38.00
(16.80)        (0.00)        (21.20)         (0.00)       (38.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Privatization and Private    13.40  0.42                 2.38                         17.8   0.0
Sector Development
Financial Sector         11.50      0.24                 6.42                         55.8   0.0
Social Sector and Human   5.60      0.39                4.89                          87.3   0.0
Resources Development
Institutional Support and  3.00     0.17                20.22      1.40              674.0  823.5
Development
Project Implementation    1.50      0.05                4.03       0.40               268.7  800.0
PPF                       1.50      0.05                 0.05                          3.3    0.0
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a)  M issions:                                                            ________________________________
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty              Performa ce Rating
(e.g. 2 E nosts, I MS, etc.)        Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
1992-1993                   6   5 Economists, 1 Consultant           S               S
Appraisal/Negotiation
5/1993                     11   1 Mission Leader, 7                  S               S
Economists, 3 Consultants
Supervision
10/1993                     2   1 Mission Leader, 1                  S               S
Procurement Advisor
10/1993                     1   1 Economist                          S               S
10-11/1993                  1   1 Team Leader                        S               S
10-11/1993                  2   1 Team Leader, 1 Consultant          S               S
02-03/1994                  1   1 Consultant                         S               S
02-03/1994                  1   1 Task Manager                       S               S
02-03/1994                  3   1 Team Leader; 2 Economists          S               S
05-06/1994                  4   1 Team Leader, 3 Economists          S               S
11-12/1994                  3   1 Team Leader, 2 Economists         U                S
04-05/1995                   1   1 Task Manager                      U               S
05-07/1995                  1   1 Team Leader                        U               S
07-08/1995                  4   1 Team Leader, I Economist, 1        U               S
Operations Officer, 1 Consultant
05/1996                     1   1 Task Manager                       U               s
10/1996                     5   1 Team Leader, 1 Economist, 3        S               S
Consultants
11-12/1997                  I   1 Economist                         U                S
02-03/1998                  1   1 Task Manager                       S               S
04/1998                     1   1 Task Manager                       S               S
12/1999                     1   1 task Manager                       S               S
ICR
8/2000                      1    1 Consultant                        S               S
- 24 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                60                       133.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                     72                       187.3
Supervision                              251                       642.2
ICR                                        5                         5.0
Total                                    388                       967.6
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
ZSector Policies                         OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
K Physical                               OH OSUOM ON *NA
El Financial                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
K Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Ol Other (Please specify)          0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Private sector development             0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
2 Public sector management               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Ol Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS *S OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        O HS * s   OU  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS  OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerpeformance                               Rating
Z Preparation                                        O HS O s   O U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S   0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  0 HS 0 S   0 U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, Report No. P-5964-KK
2. Saff Appraisal Report (Report No 11719-KK)
3. Loan Agreement No. 3642-KZ
4. Supervision Reports
5. Project Audits
6. CPPR
7. Final Report by Expatriate technical, procurement, and financial consultants under the PIU
- 28 -



Additional Annex 8. Government Contribution to ICR
Letter of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan
dated December 12, 2000 # 32-3-3-6/15757
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1. Project Rationale and Objectives
After gaining independence in 1991, Kazakhstan started transition from centrally planned to market
economy by launching a comprehensive program of economic reforms. The design and implementation of
such a fundamental structural transformation of the economy required substantial transfer of knowledge
and re-training of the human resources.Therefore, during a Consultative Group Meeting held in December
1992, the Government sought the support of the donor community in implementing an extensive program
of technical assistance.
The Technical Assistance Loan of the World Bank was prepared as part of this assistance program,
with objectives to: (i) assist in the design and development of the Government's reform policies and
programs; (ii) help build the institutional capacity and skills base to carry out these reforms; and (iii)
initiate policy work for the development of key sectors. The Loan Agreement was signed on October 15,
1993 and became effective on December 22, 1993. The initial closing date was June 30, 1996. However,
due to slow progress in project implementation - caused by changes in the Government structure, lack of
the implementation capacity at the initial stage of the project implementation, and emergence of new
Government priorities - the loan was extended several times and the project finally closed on June 30, 2000.
Despite the delays, the overall objectives of the project were accomplished and the project was successfully
completed with substantial development outcomes.
2. Results of Project Implementation by Components
The project initially included the following five components: (A) privatization and private sector
development; (B) financial sector modernization; (C) social sector and human resources development; (D)
institutional support and development; and (E) project implementation unit. While the general project
design did not change, the sub-components were modified as the government moved into more advanced
stages of reform, and funds were reallocated among the major components to reflect the changes in relative
importance of these components.
A. Privatization and Private Sector Development
The objectives of the privatization and private sector development component were to: (i) continue
development of the Government's privatization program and assist in implementation, with a particular
emphasis on mass privatization; (ii) encourage competition through improvement of antimonopoly policies;
and (iii) improve the policy and fiscal regime for foreign investments.
Privatization Program: The privatization program developed by the Government had three main
parts: small-scale privatization, mass privatization and case-by-case privatization. US$8.0 million were
allocated under the project for the preparation and implementation of the mass privatization progyram. The
- 29 -



funds were meant to finance consultant services, purchase of computers, printing press, mass media and
advertisement. However, only US$98,916 were utilized for consultant services to design mass privatization
component under the PPF. The balance funds were not utilized due to reorganization of the State Property
Committee, changes in the privatization program, and availability of grant funds for this purpose from
USAID and EU TACIS. The unutilized funds were reallocated to other components of the project. The
mass privatization program, which was part of the first Structural Adjustment Loan was successfully
completed.
The component also financed the preparation of the case-by-case privatization program. The consulting
firm Emst and Young was hired to provide assistance in classification and prioritization of firms;
development of guidelines on pre-privatization segmentation and financial restructuring; development of
procedures and regulations to prepare and carry out large privatization transactions; and procedures on
how to handle environmental problems of firms to be privatized. The consultant completed the assignment
satisfactorily and the program was successfully implemented despite some delays.
Corporate Governance and Anti-monopoly Policies: The corporate governance and enterprise
restructuring sub-component (US$1.5 million) was dropped because of uncertainties about the institutional
responsibilities for enterprise restructuring. The scope of consulting services to design antimonopoly
regulations was reduced. The project financed the completion of the assigmnent of the Booz Allen &
Hamilton, the firm which was hired by USAID to provide assistance to the State Committee for Price and
Antimonopoly Policy. Out of the original allocation of US$500,000, US$ 180,000 were utilized for
consultant services and US$ 100,000 for procurement of goods.
Foreign Investment Promotion: The contract with consulting company IMCC to provide assistance
in foreign investment promotion was terminated due to the dissolution of the National Agency for Foreign
Investments. The contract with M/s Watts, Griffis and McQuat Ltd. was terminated by the Ministry of
Geology due to introduction by the Government of new regulations requiring repayments by the
beneficiaries of the loan funds. The Ministry of Geology used the loan funds only for procurement of
goods.
New Component: In 1995, the Government requested to reallocate US$500,000 for technical
assistance in the privatization of state and collective farms. The consulting firm EuroConsult was hired to
provide the required consulting services. As part of the assigmnent, the consultants developed procedures
for farm restructuring; demonstrated the approach on pilot farms; assisted in establishing the monitoring
system and farm classifications; and analyzed social issues related to the farm restructuring and
privatization. The consultants completed their assignment satisfactorily, and US$492,730 were utilized.
The work carried out under this component became the basis for a new project, Agriculture Post
Privatization Assistance Project (FY98).
Overall Assessment: Only 18 percent of the funds originally envisaged for the component were
utilized (US$2.38 million out of US$13.4 million). While the mass privatization program was completed
satisfactorily and marginal improvements were made in corporate governance, anti-monopoly policies and
foreign investment promotion, the impact of the component may be evaluated as marginally satisfactory.
The main reasons for less than satisfactory performance is due to government completing many of the
objectives without the assistance of foreign consultants (slow procurement process) and availability of
externally funded grants.
B. Financial Sector Modernization
- 30 -



The Government reforms in the financial sector were aimed at developing a system responsive to
market demand. The financial sector development component was designed to provide technical assistance
for: (i) modemization of the payment system, (ii) introduction of intemational accounting and auditing
standards, (iii) strenghtening bank supervision; and (iv) transfonmation of the commercial banking system.
Modernization of the Payment System: The consulting firm Price Waterhouse was engaged to
prepare the feasibility and design study for the comprehensive payment system. The consultants prepared
recommendations for the payment system and financial risk management; institutional arrangements and
payment system technical standards; systems engineering and implementation; and system technical
specification. However, the consultant failed to provide an estimate of the transactions' volume, project
costs, and unit costs per transaction. This tumed out to be a serious shortcoming and in order to complete
the assignment, the firm PA Consultants was hired. The consultants satisfactorily completed phase 1 of the
assignment, however, the contract was terminated at phase 2 as the consultants were not able to fit to the
time framework proposed by the client.
Under the PPF, the National Bank of Kazakhstan hired the firm Intsys Inc. of Alexandria to prepare
bidding documentation for procurement of equipment for the payment system. The consultant satisfactorily
completed the assignment and NBK proceeded with the procurement process. The contract was awarded to
Bull SA France, which supplied the equipment for a total amount of US$5,630,139. Part of this equipment
was later transferred to the newly established Budget Bank.
The firm Karl Bauer & Associates prepared the technical specifications for banking application
software. This work was continued under the Financial & Enterprises Development Project, and currently
the two-stage bidding procedure is underway.
Introduction of International Accounting and Auditing Standards: The project financed diagnostic
studies of 10 largest banks. These diagnostic studies were carried out by international audit companies
Ermst & Young, Price Waterhouse, and Delloitte & Toush. The consultants evaluated the financial and
operational vialibility of the banks, their main strengths and weaknesses; recommended, where appropriate,
structural changes required to maintain stability of the banking sector; and proposed for each bank a
strategy and detailed action plan.
The funds envisaged for the banking accounting reform subcomponent were re-assigned to the Ministry
of Finance for undertaking a review of the whole process of standard setting and incorporating westem
accounting practice. The funds envisaged for specialized financial services were partially used to finance
the design of the Rehabilitation Bank, prepared by Arthur Andersen, which later played an important role
in the restructuring and development of the banking and enterprise sectors.
Strenghtening Bank Supervision: Significant input was made into developing on-site banking
supervision capacity. The firm M/s Bracewell Petterson assisted in development of banking supervision
manuals, policies and regulations, and on-site examination procedures and guidelines; provided
recommendations on IT development in the Banking Supervision Department of the NBK; and provided
training to the staff of the department.
Overall Assessment: 56 percent of the funds originally envisaged for the component were utilized
(US$6.4 million out of US$11.5 million). Implementation of the component may be evaluated as
satisfactory. Kazakhstan now has the most stable banking sector in the FSU and has consolidated the
sector from    banks down to    banks.
- 31 -



C. Social Sector and Human Resources Development
The social sector and human resources development component was envisaged to: (i) design and
implement policies and programs for unemployment relief; (ii) introduce social protection policies targeted
to most vulnerable groups of society, and develop mechanisms for poverty monitoring; (iii) develop new
policies and programs in health care reform; and (iv) provide training in areas where serious skills gaps
exist.
Policies and Programs for Unemployment Relief: The Ministry of Labor entered into a contract
with the Department of Employment Education and Training of Australia to organize a study tour for
senior representatives of the ministry. Government officials familiarized themselves with the structure and
operations of employment services offices in Australia; the methods for labor market analysis and practice
of the national employment services management; and the organization of training for personnel
management and IT applications. The project also financed procurement of office and IT equipment for the
Ministry of Labor.
Social Protection Policies and Mechanisms for Poverty Monitoring: The project financed
consultant services for design and implementation of the Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS).
Sigma Institute, Germany, designed multi-topic questionnaires for the survey; assisted in design of survey
samples and procedures; provided supervision of field work; developed software for data analysis; and
provided training to the staff of the State Statistical Committee. Several individual foreign consultants
were also hired to assist in development of the National Accounts system and approaches to budget studies.
All consultant assignments were completed satisfactorily. The project also financed the procurement of
equipment for the State Statistical Committee and Ministry of Labor in order to implement the proposed
LSMS program.
The National Academy of Social Insurance, USA, provided training on public pension system in USA
and on Private Sector Pensions. Consultants developed improved procedures for claims processing, benefit
calculations and benefit payments; and indexing of pensions. In consultation with the Ministry for Social
Protection, consultants developed proposals for a private pension system in Kazakhstan.
Health Care Reform: The project also financed consultant services, provided by Maxwell, UK, for
development of coherent health finance policies, and strengthening financing, budgeting and planning of
pharmaceuticals procurements. Consultants also organized a study tour for senior staff of the Ministry of
Health to study alternative health financing in OECD countries. Small amount of loan funds was used for
procurement of computers for the Ministry of Health.
Training: Under the training subcomponent, the project financed public sector management training
and enterprise sector management training. Initially envisaged financial sector training was not
implemented due to availability of alternative grant financing from EU TACIS and refusal of the Almaty
Bank Training Center to borrow loan funds for such training. The Public Sector Management Training was
organized by and conducted under the supervision of the DEET, Australia; and Enterprise Management
Training was organized and supervised by Maastrict School of Management. Both training programs were
successfully implemented.
Overall Assessment: 87 percent of the funds originally envisaged for the component were utilized
(US$4.9 million out of US$5.6 million), and the implementation of the component may be evaluated as
highly satisfactory.
- 32 -



D. Institutional Support and Development
The main objectives of the institutional support and development component were to: (I) support
introduction of broad-based legal and regulatory reforms; and (2) improve strategies for
environmentalprotection and management. In the course of project implementation, the scope of this
component was enlarged to accommodate the emerging needs in institutional development.
Legal and Regulatory Reforms: The firm Pepper Hamilton & Sheetz, USA, was hired to assist in
development of the legal framework to promote private sector development and assist in transition to a
market economy. The consultants participated in drafting the laws and appraising the draft laws prepared
by the Ministry of Justice and other ministries. In accordance with the contractual provisions, the
consultants provided training to the staff of the Ministry of Justice and other agencies. The original contract
was extended twice and the consultants worked for a period of two years. The overall assessment of
consultant's output is considered satisfactory. In addition to the international firm, the Ministry of Justice
also hired individual local consultants and local law firms for legal drafting and appraisal. The work of
consultants is also considered satisfactory. The loan funds were also used for procurement of computers for
the Ministry of Justice.
The company Hogan & Hartson, USA, provided assistance to the National Bank of Kazakhstan in
development of the legal framework to promote banking sector development.
Strategies for Environmental Issues: The firm Science Application International Corporation
(SAIC), USA, was hired under this component to provide assistance in strengthening the capacity of the
Ministry of Ecology and Bio-Resources to monitor and gather information on environmental resources and
problems, establish priorities, develop a preliminary environmental strategy and identify policy options.
The consultant's contract also envisaged training for the staff of the Ministry and small procurements of
office equipment. The consultants completed their assignment satisfactorily. Loan funds were also used to
finance procurement of computers and services of the local consultants involved in the preparation of the
National Environmental Action Plan.
New Component (Budget, External Debt Management and Civil Service Reforms): After the
reallocation of the loan in 1997, provisions were made to finance consulting services and training required
for budget reform, for the external debt management (Ministry of Finance), for Agency on Civil Services
and Investment Agency. The loan funds were also made available for procurement of IT equipment for
various govemment agencies, Parliament and Presidential Administration. Correspondingly, the funding for
the component was increased to US$20.2 million. The overall implementation of the component is
considered as satisfactory.
E. Project Implementation Unit
PIU: The Project Implementation Unit was initially established in the Ministry of Economy under the
National Agency for Foreign Investments (NAFI). Due to changes in the Government structure, the
implementation agency was reorganized several times: from NAFI to Committee for Utilization of Foreign
Capital (CUFC) under the Cabinet of Ministries, then to Committee for Extemal Loans (CEL) under the
Ministry of Finance; and finally to External Debt Management Department of the Ministry of Finance.
The PIU was responsible for: (i) coordination of the activities of the ministries and public entities,
National Bank of Kazakhstan and other agencies in order to ensure consistent and timely implementation of
the Loan; (2) advising beneficiaries on Bank procurement procedures; (3) establishing and maintaining the
- 33 -



project accounts and financial reports; (4) administration of the special account; (5) handling disbursement
procedures; (6) arranging audit of financial statements and proper monitoring of the project
implementation; (7) ensuring that the loan covenants were fully met and undertaking other related
responsibilities.
The activities of the PIU were supported by a procurement advisor (Crown Agents, UK) and Financial
and disbursement advisor (Mr. Bhatnagar, Consultant, World Bank). The PIU satisfactorily met its
objective and implemented its role.
3. Benefits of the Project and Operational Experience
The Technical Assistance Loan provided - impetus to the Govemment's reform program during the
difficult period of transition. It helped develop and strengthen the key components of the reform program
including privatization, financial sector, social sector reform and institutional support. It also supported the
pace of economic reform and the rate of economic growthby encouraging competition, attracting foreign
investments, improving payment system, and training people in skills needed in the market economy. The
project helped finance 120 contracts in respect of procurement of goods, consultants and staff training.
Assistance was provided to nearly 30 government organizations (Ministries, Agencies and Committees).
Consultant services were hired for US$17.5 million, of which US$1.8 million was used for local and
overseas training and seminars in various fields. As many as 121 staff members of various ministries and
agencies were trained under consultant services agreements. In addition, several staff from the Ministry of
Economy, Investment Agency, Agency on Civil Service, Ministry of Transport and Communications,
Ministry of Finance, and NAFI/CUFC/CEL, received local and overseas training and participated in
seminars. US$17.3 million were spent on computers, software and equipment. Provision of computers and
adoption of modern IT facilities and information sharing and management techniquesimproved the
institutional capacity, working conditions and staff skills to perform their tasks.  Data processing and
general information systems were improved to produce fast and reliable data for decision making and
control. The government agencies developed the capacity to implement World Bank projects.
4. Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance. Lessons Learned.
The Government appointed the Ministry of Economy to serve as the lead authority for managing the
Loan and coordinating its implementation. Lead authority would represent the Borrower and would be focal
point for relations between the Government and the Bank, and to coordinate and supervise the procurement
and disbursement and to ensure that the funds were used for intended purposes. In order to fulfil these
objectives, the National Agency for Foreign Investments was established under the Ministry of Economy.
In view of complexity of the project components, it was considered necessary that PIU should operate as
general coordinator and facilitator of the project implementation. The sectoral ministries and agencies are
responsible for project implementation in their respective sectors and also given the authority to deal
directly with the Bank, senior officials of the Government and other donors.
Project's closing date (originally June 30, 1996) was extended several times and finally closed on June
30, 2000, after seven years of implementation. Delays in project implementation were caused by: (1)
transfer of project implementation responsibilities (four times) including changes of host ministry; (2)
Government restructuring; (3) demand from new beneficiaries other than those initially approved; (4)
urgent need of the Government to improve the infrastructure of the ministries, agencies and committees
(computerization); and (5) transfer of government to the new capital Astana. The delays were exacerbated
by: (i) high personnel turnover in the PIU; (ii) changes in the senior personnel of the host ministry; (iii)
delays in decision making process due to unfamiliarity with Bank procedures; (iv) lack of staff dedicated to
- 34 -



project implementation and low motivation due to poor salary structure; (v) lack of English language skills
during first two years.
Despite the above noted difficulties and delays, the overall implementation performance is satisfactory.
The project was carried out through Executing Agencies agreed with the Bank from time to time with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, technical, and management
practices. The procurement of goods and services followed agreed Bank's procedures, and each training
program was undertaken with Bank's approval. All consultant's final reports were sent to the Bank for
final approval. Proper accounting records were maintained in accordance with international accounting
standards, and were audited by an international auditor. Regular quarterly reports were submitted to Bank
on implementation progress and disbursement of each component. PIU has always coordinated with the
implementing agencies to ensure consistent and timely implementation of the project and provided
necessary administrative and management support. Due to the circumstances beyond control of the PIU,
the implementation was slow.
The main lesson is that the Government shall try to minimize the administrative delays and
high turnover of staff, which were the main stumbling blocks in the project implementation.
5. Evaluation of the Bank Performance
The project involved several implementing agencies, therefore, several Task Managers were appointed
to supervise the different components. Mr. Philip Adotey and Mr. Motoo Konishi were responsible for
overall project supervision. The Task Managers made at least three to four visits to the field each year.
Bank responses on no objection issues and other matters were prompt except when staff were on leave or
mission to other countries. The Bank carefully assessed the emerging needs and approved the Borrower's
requests for reallocation of funds and inclusion of new subcomponents into the project.
The delays in project implementation were generally a major concern. However, given the complex
implementation arrangements and the constant changes in government structure, these delays could not be
entirely avoided and the Bank granted several requests for extension of the closing date, while also making
every effort to expedite the project. For example, when problems and delays with disbursement were
encountered, the Bank appointed additional staff to its Disbursement Division The CPPR meetings held
with the Government helped a great deal in reviewing implementation progress and determining corrective
measures.
Overall, Bank performance is considered to be satisfactory. The Bank and the Government were able
to build constructive relations which significantly contributed to the successful outcome of the project. The
implementation of the project over an extended period of time and in cooperation with a number of different
ministries helped not only in accomplishing the primary objectives of economic reform, but also laid the
foundation for future Bank assistance in different sectors.
- 35 -



