Docmeu r  or
The World Bank
FOR OFFCUAL USE ONLY
C<, )401- CE
Raut Ne. P-3619-CE
tRORT AND RECaWCmATioN
OF ToE
PRESIDENT OF THE
T INER2EaZONML DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TBE
EXECUTVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 23.1 oMLION
TO THE .
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANA
FOR AN
INDuSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
June 22, 1983
Thi docmeu h  a retriced dlglbhI ad ma be md by rec.sJ qwl in _s h peefu  o1
thei     did dalts elb_sa aut _dhwie be dised          Wod Bk 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USS1.00 -    Rs 23.0
Rs 1.00 -    US$0.044
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
DFCC  -   Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
FIAC   -   Foreign Investment Advisory Coaeittee
UOFP   -    inns try of Finance and Planning
fISA   -   flinistry of Industries and Scientific Affairs
NDB    -   National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
Sf1    -   Small and Medium Irdustries
FISCA YEARS§
Government of Sri Lanka - January 1 to December 31
Conmercial Banks          = January 1 to December 31
NDB                       - January I to December 31
DFCC                      - April 1 to march 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
INDUSIRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Credit and Project Summary
Buorrower:        The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Beneficiaries:    National Development Bank (NDB) and Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and sub-borrowers.
Amount:           SDR 23.1 million (US$25.0 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard.
Relending         Government would relend US$23.0 million to NDB and DFCC to
Terms:          finance foreign exchange portions of eligible subloans
on the basis of actual commitments with no preallocation
between the two development banks, at an initial interest
rate of 11% per annum to NDB and 10% per annum to DFCC
for 18 years including a grace period of 5 years. NDB
and DFCC would initially onlend the proceeds to the
sub-borrowers at an interest rate of 14% per annum subject
to annual review and revision. Foreign exchange risk will
will be borne by the Government. US$2.0 million of the
proceeds of the Credit would be made available to NDB,
DFCC, selected commercial banks and public corporations as
grants, and to Ministry of Industries and Scientific
Affairs (HISA) and Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP)
as budgetary transfers for technical assistance.
Project           The project is designed to increase output, efficiency and
Description:    employment of viable private and public industrial
enterprises. Project components are: (a) a line of credit
for NDB and DFCC to finance imported machinery and
equipment components of their subloans; (b) technical
assistance and training to NDB and DFCC in strengthening
project promotion, operations, and establishing an equity
fund; (c) advisory services and short-term consultancy to
support programs of MISA and MOFP to improve efficiency of
public enterprises; (d) technical assistance and training
to commercial banks participat:ng in a consortium
financing arrangement; and (e) technical assistance for
implementation of tariff reforms and analysis of
industrial incentives. The project does not contain any
unusual risk.
This document has a resried distibution and may be used by repients only in the performanc of
their offici duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed without World Bank authorization



-ii-
Estimated Cost:                                          US$ Milllon Equivalent
Foreign   Local  Total
A.  Subloan Component                   23-0    18.4   41.4
B. Techbical Assistance to:
(i) NDB and DFCC                     0.3     0.2    0.5
(ii) MISA, MOFP, and selected
public corporations              1.0     0.4    1.4
(iii) Commercial Banks                 0.3     0.1    0.4
(iv) Policy Studies/Follow-up Work   0.2      OdA   0.3
Subtotal                 1.8     0.8    2.6
Total                           24.8    19.2   44.0
Less:  Taxes and Duties           -3            35
Net Project Cost                24.8    15.7   40.5
Financing Plan:                                          US$ Hillion Equivalent
Foreign Local   Total
Government                               -       0.4    0.4
IDA                                     24.8     0.2   25.0
NDB, DFCC and Commercial Banks           -       6.2    6.2
Sponsors                                        12.4   12.4
Total                           24.8    19.2   44.0
Estiuated
Disbursement:                          US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY          FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY8
Annual          1.1    4.2      7.7    9.2    2.8
Cumulative      1.1    5.3    13.0   22.2   25.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 3847-CE, dated June 6, 1983.
flap: IBRD 17278



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMHENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO 11E DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in an amount of SDR
23.1 m"illion (US$25.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance an Industrial Development Project. Of the total proceeds of the
Credit, US$23.0 million would be relent to the National Development Bank
(NDB) and the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) on the basis
of actual commitments with no preallocation between the two development
banks, at an initial interest rate of 11% per annum to NDB and 10% per annum
to DFCC for 18 years including a grace period of 5 years. NDB and DFCC would
onlend the proceeds to eligible industrial subborrowers at an interest rate
of 14% per annum. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
remaining US$2.0 million of the Credit proceeds would be utilized for con-
sultancy and training services to improve the operations of the financial
institutions and efficiency of publi_ enterprises; this portion of the
Credit would be made available to the beneficiaries as a grant or budgetary
outlay.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      A special economic report, "Sri Lanka: An Interim Assessment of
Experience and Priorities" (Report No. 4482-CE, May 4, 1983), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 18, 1983. Country data are provided in
Annex I.
3.      After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy has
experienced sustained growth. This growth has been the direct result of the
economic liberalization of 1977 and the associated development push. Until
1977, Sri Lanka's growth performance had been below both need and potential.
Although the 4.4Z annual GDP growth in the 1960s was above the average for
low income countries, it slackened sharply in the 1970-77 period to 2.9% per
annum, just below the average for low income countries. Through much of this
period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, eroding even these modest
gains; as a consequence, per capita gross national income rose by a mere 0.9%
per annum. The slowdown in economic growth in the 1970-77 period was
attributable to a combination of factors, including inadequate investment,
1/ This part is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
on Third Rural Development Project for Sri Lanka (Report No. P-3533-CE)
which was approved by the Executive Directors on May 12, 1983.



-2-
growth and investment; these factors were compounded by poor weather in some
years and a sharp rise in the cost of imported food and petroleum.
4.      Production of the three tree crops--tea, rubber and coconuts--which
are the mainstay of the economy, suffered because of low replanting and
inadequate incentives.   These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange
rate system, introduced in 1968 that discriminated against these crops, and
by the uncertainties surrounding a protracted nationalization (1972-75) of
the larger estates. After the exceptional growth in the 1960s, rice yields
and cropping intensities declined in the 1970-77 period due to poor institu-
tional support. Investment in manufacturing was also low, and the inef-
ficiency of most public and private sector firms, nurtured in a highly
protected environment, resulted in manufacturing growth of 1% per annum. The
only bright spots were subsidiary food crops and industrial exports which
benefited from good incentives.
5.      An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and uncontrolled growth in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public invest-
ment. Unfavorable policies further constrained private savings. The slow
growth rates and changes in the structure of output provided neither the jobs
nor the employment structure for a growing labor force. The low output
growth, the excessive capital intensity of investment, the mismatch between
the job aspirations of those with post-primary education and the jobs avail-
able to them, the post-war demographic bulge, and the rising female
participation rates contributed to a massive increase in unemployment,
estimated at over 1 million, or some 18% of the labor force in 1977.
6.      In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
By virtually all social indicators-life expectancy, literacy, iniant
mortality, birth rate-Sri Lanka ranks significantly better than would be
expected for a country at its per capita incone level. Nutrition levels have
been adequate and in the 1960s paralleled gains in income distribution.
These improvements in the quality of life, in particular the rise in health
standards, the spread of education and the availability of subsidized food
have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The increasing age
of marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a vigorous
family planning program also have contributed to a sharp decline in
fertility. As a consequence, population growth, net of migration, has
dropped steadily, from 2.72 per annum in the 1953-63 period to 2.2% per annum
in the 1963-71 period, and to 1.7% per annum during 1971-81.
7.      Favorable initial conditions induced these social gains.  Compulsory
primary education was introduced as early as 1901, and the food ration was
introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948, Sri Lanka
already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy. These
initial gains were consolidated and expani;ed in the post-independence period
through large expenditures on social services and the food sub-
sidy-expenditures which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government
revenues in the 1960s and early 1970s. The Government financed these expen-
ditures through the sale of the surpluses of the three major tree crops,
which traditionally have furnished easy sources of revenue and foreign
exchange. These surpluses began to decline in the late 1960s as government



-3-
poli!'is discriminated against tree crops and export unit prices weakened.
As growth in other productive sectors decelerated in the 1970-77 period, the
budgetary resources available for social programs were squeezed between
inelastic revenues and rapid inflation, As a consequence expenditures for
social services other than the food subsidy declined as a proportion of total
current expenditures and of GDP, threatening the hard-won gairs in health and
education. In short, the economy could no longer generate the resources
needed to sustain the large program of welfare expenditures. Moreover, the
very size of those programs reduced the scope for policy makers to shift
resources to development.
8.      The policy changes introduced in 1977, following the election of the
United National Party, were intended to break this vicious circle. The new
Government identified its objectives as the sustained revival and resuscita-
tion of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capacity
utilization in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and
investment, and (iii) efforts to encourage exports, and import substitution
in foodgrains. A program of policy reforms was developed in close consult-
ation with the I}1F.  These reforms were supported initially by an IHF standby
arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979, the
Fund's Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement to
cover the 1979-81 period. The principal aim of the reform program was to
dismantle controls over -esource allocation and to initiate price adjustments
with a view to establishing more realistic relative prices. By 1980, these
goals had largely been achieved.
9.      The program of reforms contained a number of major policy initia-
tives. The exchange rate was unified 1/ on November 16, 1977 at a
depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and has since been subject to a managed
float. This implied a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevail-
ing prior to unification and 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificate (FEEC) rate. The trade and payments regime was
liberalized. Public sector import monopolies were terminated almost
entirely. Prior licensing of imports was abolished for all but a handful of
conmodities. The tariff structure was revised and simplified. Other
budgetary taxes and subsidies were adjusted to reflect the change in trade
and exchange rate policies. In particular, rice and sugar rations were
confined to the poorer half of the population, and the food subsidy was
eliminated through a series of adjustments in administered prices. On Sep-
tember 1, 1979, the Governient introduced a system of food and kerosene
stamps for ramilies with monthly incomes of less than Rs 300 to replace
specific subsidies and food rationing. To help offset the adverse impact of
these changes on real incomes, public sector wages were periodically adjusted
upwards.  The Government arked public corporations to pass on cost increases,
except for fertilizer, petroleum, milk, and public trarsport, for which price
increases were initially deferred to cushion the impact on consumers. The
1/ Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber, and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers, and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the FEEC
rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



-4-
Government subsequently eliminated the overall subsidy on petroleum products
and made sizable adjustments in bus and train fares and electricity and
fertilizer prices. Consequently, the burden of selected subsidies and trans-
fers fell from around 10% of CDP in 1977 to around 3% by 1981. These changes
and higher aid receipts have helped permit a sizable increase In capital
expenditures.
10.     Agricultural pricing policies have changed dramatically.  The domes-
tic support price for paddy was increased by 21% in November 1977, by 25% in
November 1980, and by a further 15% in the course of 1981 following substan-
tial increases in fertilizer prices. With the related increase in flour
prices, incentives for paddy and other flour substitutes benefited. Simul-
taneously, a large policy-induced decline in the role of the state in domes-
tic rice trade occurred. Fresh coconut prices were also increased, and in
November 1981 the system of fixed and variable duties which effectively had
insulated the large domestic coconut market from the world market was
replaced by a sliding scale export system that allowed some linkage between
the two markets. While the unification of the exchange rate ended formal
discrimination against tree crops, high export duties, particularly on tea,
continued to siphon off most of the operating surplus for the Covernment.
As tea prices fell and production costs rose in 1978-79, the Government
responded to the reduced producer margins by lowering taxes on tea exports.
The Government also ended most price controls and reformed the interest rate
and tax systems. The burden of company and personal taxation was lowered,
and the taxation system was rationalized to increase revenue elasticity;
nevertheless, the overall revenue elasticity to economic growth and domestic
Inflation remains low as taxes on slowly growing tree crop exports still
average about 25% of revenues. Interest rates were also raised sharply to
encourage savings and discourage speculative imports. However, inflation
eroded these rates and in April 1980 further upward adjustments were made.
11.     A major effort to step up public investment accompanied these
economic reforms. The Government's capital expenditures jumped from 6% of
GDP in 1977 to an average of 13% in 1978 and 1979 and 19% in 1980, as govern-
ment departments responded to the initial improvement in the budgetary
resource position and embarked on long overdue replacement investments and
new projects that had been shelved earlier for lack of resources. At the
same time, the Government undertook three major new programs which have
become the lead projects in a five-year rolling public investment program.
These are: (i) accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development
Program, by far the largest multipurpose river basin development program ever
undertaken in Sri Lanka; (ii) the establishment of a 200 square mile free
trade zone north of Colombo under a newly constituted Greater Colombo
Economic Commission, which has established the first of several Investment
Promotion Zones near Colombo's international airport and by end-1982 had
signed agreements with 77 investors involving a total investment of US$130
million; and (iii) a massive housing and urban renewal program with its main
focus on the Colombo metropolitan region, including the construction of a new
capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo. Budgetary expenditures on
these three programs will amount to Rs 34 billion, or 34% of projected
budgetary resources over the 1982-86 period. The underlying public invest-
ment strategy seeks to balance the large investment requirements of the
Government's high priority programs with the urgent rehabilitation and fresh



-5-
investment needs in other sectors. The main thrust of the public sector
program is to lay the foundation for longer-term develcpment by expanding
social and economic infrastructure while also providing for some short-term
growth. Private fixed investment has responded well in some areas to the
economic reforms, increasing from about 7% of GDP in 1977 to 12% by 1980 and
contributing to an overall fixed investment of 31X of CDP in 1980.
12.     In response to the policy reforms and the accompanying acceleration
in investment, economic growth during 1977-82 averagee' an impressive 6.2% per
annum. This growth was shared by almost all sectors of the economy, par-
ticularly construction and services. The only major exception has been the
tree crop sector. The otherwise impressive p rformance is due to a number of
factors including the improved availability or inputs following import
liberalization, an increased role for the private sector in distribution, and
the removal of price controls. Although there is little Information avail-
able on employment, Central Bank estimates suggest that unemployment dropped
from 15% to 13Z of the labor force between 1978 and 1981.
13.     Despite this strong economic performance, major weaknesses emerged by
1980. In particular, the national savings effort had not matched the rapid
rise in investment. Gross national savings fluctuated around 15X of GDP
during the 1978-80 period, while recourse to foreign savings to finance the
higher investment rose from 4.5Z of GDP in 1978 to 20.0Z in 1980. Although
the Government succeeded in containing the costly consumer subsidy and trans-
fer programs, expenditures on which declined as a percent of GDP (para 9),
relatively inelastic revenues combiled with other steadily rising recurrent
expenditures and dcclining terms of trade resulted in hardly any public
savings over the 1978-80 period. As a result, the Government financed its
rapidly rising capital expenditures through foreign aid and increased domes-
tic borrowings. Initially the Government met its domestic financing require-
ments through non-expansionary borrowings from captive financial institutions
which could mobilize increased private savings following the interest rate
reform. However, resources raised through these channels did not grow as
rapidly as the budgetary deficit, and the Government was increasingly forced
to undertake expansionary borrowings from the Central Bank. Between 1978 and
1979, these rose from 0.3Z to 1.3Z of GDP and in 1980 increased sharply to
10.7% of GDP. It also resorted to the use of foreign coemercial loans to
help finance the deficit, borrowing US$50 million in 1980, and US$75 million
in 1981.
14.     Inflation also increased sharply since 1977.  The exchange rate
adjustment, policy-induced price increases and related wage increases, the
removal of price controls, and the build-up of external assets which added to
the money supply, contributed significantly to inflationary pressures in 1978
and 1979. However, these were moderated by burmper paddy harvests, increased
capacity utilization in the economy, increased availability of imports, and
the beneficial effects of competition from imports and in domestic distribu-
tion. Since then, rapid growth in the broad money supply--38Z in 1979 and
32% in 1980--added a sizable "built-in" increase to the system. Together
with the corrective price increases designed to reduce budgetary subsidies
and keep pace with rapid increases in international petroleum, wheat and
sugar prices, these pressures caused inflation (as measured by the Colombo



-6-
Consumer Price Index) to accelerate from an average of 11X in 1978 and 1979,
to 26% in :980.
15.     Rapid expansion in economic activity was reflected most vividly ifn
the balance of payments. Import volume growth since 1978 averaged 15%.
Between 1978 and 1980, the net petroleum import bill more than tripled,
increasing from 11% to 36% of non-petroleum exports, while capital goods
imports more than doubled in response to the acceleration in investment.
Exports showed barely any volume growth, however, as declining tree crop
export volumes offset the strong growth in ga:ment exports. These adverse
trade volume trends were compounded by an i8% terms of trade deterioration
over the same period. The rapid growth in tourism receipts and private
remittances from abroad in this period failed to offset the deterioration in
the trade account, and the current account deficit rose from US$124 million
(4.5% of GDP) in 1978 to US$798 million in 1980 (19.8% of GDP). In 1978 and
L97^, rapidly rising non-monetary capital inflows due mainly to increased net
aid disbursements more than offset the current account deficit, end Sri Lanka
continued to add to its net international reserves, albeit at a decUlriing
rate. In 1980, however, net international reserves fell by US$220 million,
and by end-1980 gross international reserves stood at TIS$377 million, or
equivalent to less than nine weeks of imports of goods and non-factor
services. With the rapid drewdown in reserves, the public sector began to
make a significant use of commercial financing.
16.     Realizing in early 1981 that a continuation of the 1980 trends would
risk continued high inflation and unsustainable pressures Oil the balance of
payments, the Government started to tak:e corrective measures mainly in the
form of a substantial reduction in government spending. However, as a share
of GDP, government revenues continued to decline further, and the overall
budget deficit, which had reached the equivalent of 23% of CDP in 1980, still
averaged 17% of GDP in 1981/82; Central Bank borrowings averaged the equiv-
alent of 4.2% of GDP and Eurodollar borrowing for budget support 1.3% of GDP.
With exports remaining stagnant but imports responding to the cut in govern-
ment spending, there was a similar small improvement in the balance of pay-
ments as the current account deficit declined from about 20% of GDP in 1980
to 15% in 1982. Net international reserves fell by a further US$60 million
during 1981/82 and had become negative by about US$20 million by end-1982.
Gross international reserves. however, boosted by large disbursements under
the INF Extended krrangement and Compensatory Finance Facility had increased
to US$514 million, the equivalent of 12 weeks of imports of goods and
non-factor services. The stabilization measures helped reduce the rate of
inflation significantly from 26% in 1980 to 18% in 1931 and 11% in 1982,
although part of this decline was the result of the maintenance of an over-
valued exchange rate and of delays it. administered price increases.
17.     In response to these developments, during early 1983 the Government
took a number of additional measures to stabilize the economy. The most far
reaching of these were several new publlc revenue measures, especially
increases in import duties and in turnover taxes. In addition, during
February 1983 the rupee was allowed to depreciate from Rs 21.3 = US$l at the
end of 1982 to Rs 23 = US$1. This was accompanied by selected increases in
administered prices to reflect rising costs. Even so, the overall budget
deficit is still expected to be the equivalent of 15% of GDP. Continued



-7-
strong measures will be needed throughout the medium term to ensure that
budgetary expenditures are consistent with overall economic stability. Sri
Lanka also must carefully monitor balance ,f payments developments and take
measures to accelerate exports growth to ensure longer-run stability in the
external sector.
18.     Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the Government's
develupment initiatives. Between 1977 and 1981-82, aid commitments tripled
to a yearly average of -bout US$700 million. Most of the growth has come in
project aid, reflecting the Government's efforts to increase investment,
particularly in the Accelerated Hahaweli Program. Since public investment is
now overprogrammed, continued high levels of aid will depend upon donors'
abilities to shift from project to non-project aid, to finance a sizable
portion of local costs, and to provide supplementary financing for ongoing
projects where needed. The Government will need to maintain donor confidence
in its economic policies and management through a continued vigorous domestic
resource mobilization program and continued restraint on government expendi-
tures as the budgetary situation remains tight. Local cost financing, in
support of Sri Lanka's own resource mobilization efforts will not only
provide valuable relief to these budgetary pressures but also supplement
foreign exchange resources needed in support of the balance of payments.
19.     External public debt outstanding and disbursed stood at US$1,961
million at the end of 1982, amounting to about 402 of GDP. This is mostly
long-term concessional debt. As a result, the debt service burden is still
relatively low; the debt service ratio in 1982 excluding IMF repurchases
stood at 11.3% of exports of goods and services, up from 8% in 1981. Recent
resort to commercial finance, however, means that the debt service ratio will
rise further in the coming years. Unless early steps are taken to further
reduce the iatio of the current account deficit to GDP, Sri Lanka's reliance
on shorter maturity commercial borrowings to fill the gap between the current
account deficit and likely concessional aid flows could grow significantly.
In that case, the debt service ratio would increase quickly and substan-
tially.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
20.     Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has approved nine loans totalling US$115.6 million (net of cancella-
tions) and 33 credits totalling US$618.4 million (net of cancellations) in
support of 39 projects. I/ About 47Z of Bank Group assistance has been for
agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development), 21.5% for
power, 9.6% for transport, and the remainder for development finance company
operations, a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw materials
for industry), water supply, construction industry, telecommunications, and
small and medium industries. Eight loans and eleven credits have been fully
disbursed so far. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
1/ As of Miarch 31, 1983.



-8-
operations as of March 31, 1983, together with notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
21.     IFC has an equity investment of about US$150,000 equivalent in the
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC). Two IF(' lines of credit
totalling US$7.0 million have been made to the Government-owned Bank of
Ceylon (BOC) for term loans to medium industries. IFC has also an investment
of US$250,000 in an equipment leasing company. In FY81, IFC approved an
investment of about US$0.7 million in equity and about lJP$19.3 million in
loans for a new hotel project in Colombo.
22.     The Bank Group's current strategy focusses on the agricultural sec-
tor. It aims to support Government efforts to increase food production and
reduce dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment,
incomes and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. This
strategy includes projects to support basic infrastructure. The Board
approved a Forest Resources Development Project on January 18, 1983 and a
Third Rural Development Project on May 12, 1983. Projects currently under
preparation include a tank rehabilitation project, a Mahaweli IV project, and
a second road maintenance project.
23.     The Bank Group, as of end-1982, accounted for 10.7% (IBRD, 1.6% IDA,
9.1%) of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 5.0X of debt
service on medium and long-term debt. The projected Bank Group's share in
total existing external debt outstanding and disbursed will increase to 17%
by 1985 (with IBRD's share declining to 1.32). The Bank and IDA portions of
this debt service are expected to decline to about 4% by 1985.
PART II - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
24.     Manufacturing, accounting for about 14% of GDP, consists of:  29
public sector corporations; about 9,000 registered private factories, mainly
of small and mediur scale; and over 20,000 unregistered small and cottage
industries. Industrial growth slowed from 7.8% in 1978 to 4.6% in 1979, and
to about 0.8% in 1980, due to weak performance in many public sector
enterprises and tree crop processing, but increased by 5.2% in 1981. Private
sector manufacturing continued to be buoyant during the 1977-81 period;
"factory industry" grew at an average annual rate of nearly 6% and
unregistered small and cottage firms by over 9%. However, the encouraging
average growth rate hides widely divergent subsectoral trends in larger
industrial units which are mostly in the public sector. Growth was con-
centrated in textiles and in non-metallic mineral, steel and wood products,
largely reflecting growth in construction activity. Other subsectors, such
as paper and fabricated metals, declined from 1979 to 1981 and are passing
through a difficult period of adjustment due to foreign competition.
25.     Manufactured exports-excluding petroleum-almost doubled in value
between 1978 and 1979, with the growth rate slowing to about 30% in 1980 and
322 in 1981. Growth in garment exports dominat-ed, with a number of minor
exports showing declines in 1981. Government approvals of new manufacturing



-9-
Ventures with foreign partners decreased for garment firms after 1979, but
there was a five-fold increase in approved investments for other manufactur-
ing ent-,rprises, with a concentration in rubber and chenical products.  This
change in sectoral emphasis will broaden the industrial base in areas with
higher technological content and more difficult-markets. Further export
expansion opportunities exist, particularly in rubber, wood and chemical
p--ducts; gems and jewelry; and agro-industries.
Past Bank Lending to the Sector
26.     The Bank made its first loan of US$4 million to DFCC (Loan 250-CE)
in 1967. Following rapid commitment of these funds, the Bank made a second
loan of US$8 million (Loan 634-CE) in 1969. However, changes in the economic
climate caused cancellations of US$6.8 million. Nevertheless, a Project
Performance Audit Report on the second loan (dated December 7, 1977) con-
cluded that DFCC had performed wel' ander the circumstances and had succeeded
in reducing arrears substantially, despite weaknesses in sub-project
appraisal. Under the first and second IDA Credits (Credit 566-CE for US$4.5
million made in 1975 and Credit 742-CE for US$8 million made in 1977), DFCC
improved its operating standards and procedures considerably. It benefited
from a more favorable investment climate, particularly in the tourist hotel
sector, and Credit 566-CE was committed and fully disbursed within three
months of the original estimate. Similarly, Credit 742-CE has been committed
and disbursed fully. DFCC experienced management difficulties during the
1978-1981 period and took insufficient action to strengthen project promotion
and subsector analysis capabilities. But recent changes in Board composition
as well as in top management have improved DFCC's organizational strength;
the proposed project includes creation of a project promotion unit to
strengthen project identification capability of DFCC.
27.     In addition to the DFCC projects, Bank involvement in the sector
includes two IDA-financed Small and Medium Industries (StM) Projects totall-
ing US$46.0 million (SMI Project, Credit Ilo. 942-CE, $16 million; Second SMI
Project, Credit No. 1182-CE, SDR 26.7 million). The National Development
Bank (NDB) has provided project review and refinance for loans by partiicipat-
ing banks under the two projects. The subloan component (US$12 million) of
the Sf1 Project (Credit No. 942-CE) approved in June 1979 has been fully
committed and the technical services component is nearly completed. The
credit has financed a broad range of subprojects, mainly in agro-industries,
building materials, and rubber products. About 70! of the amounts due have
been collected as of March 31, 1983, and the renayment performance is improv-
ing. Institution building in both NDB and the four participating commercial
banks has led to improvements in organization, staffing and capabilities to
do project-based lending. The second SKI Project (Cr. No. 1182-CE)
experienced slower commitment due to slow down in investment demand during
the elections in 1982 and the government's policy of maintaining high inter-
est rates during a period of declining inflation. The $2 million technical
assistance component of the second SMI Project is proceeding well.



-10-
Policy Framework
28.     Tariffs.  A study of effective protective rates in industry, financed
under the First SHI Project (Credit 942-CE), has documented the following
major problems: (a) a clear pattern of high levels of protection for
import-substitution industry and low levels of protection for export
products; and (b) 62 product lines (about 2X of the sample) with negative
value-added at world prices. Host tariff revisions since initial liberaliza-
tion measures in 1977-1978 have been ad hoc and have increased protection.
The proposed project includes technical assistance in the implementation of
reform proposals incorporating recommendations of the effective protection
study.
29.    Export Incent-ives and Promotion. Since 1977, the Government estab-
lished the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC) and two other institu-
tions to support export-oriented industry: the Foreign Investment Advisory
Committee (FIAC) and the Export Development Board (EDB). The FIAC, which
evaluates foreign investment outside the GCEC, offers tax holidays. Other
export incentives for firms not under GCEC are administered by the EDB.
Available incentives include: duty drawbacks on inputs; an Export Expansion
Scheme with cash bonuses according to value-added of incremental exports;
equity participation in priority projects; and export and product development
programs assisted under the Second SHI Projezt   The EDB also recommends
projects for financing under the Central Bank's Export Refinance Scheme. The
Central Bank recently reduced the refinance under its Export Refinance Scheme
from 100% to 70%. This would increase the effective lending rate to about
14% for export-oriented projects.
30.     Investment Incentives.  Incentives introduced after 1977 have
included 5 to 10 year holidays and other tax relief on related investments
and dividends. However, the range of concessions provided under the Inland
Revenue Act encouraged investment mainly in tourism and transport. The 1983
budget removed, with effect from March 31, 1983, tax holidays on new projects
except those that are export-oriented. Available investment data suggest
that the present incentive system may not provide adequate incentives to
industry relative to real estate, transport and tourism. The proposed
project includes a study of relative incentives.
The Public Sector
31.     In 1981, public industrial corporations accounted for about 40% of
industrial output. The Government has concentrated on introducing financial
discipline into the public corporations by reducing their access to the
government budget. The mant-acturing corporations are expected to finance
all capital expenditures internally, from the banks, or through suppliers'
credits. Some initial steps to improve efficiency have been taken: for
example, the doubling of cement capacity is being undertaken through a
separate public company rather than the Cement Corporation, thus providing
for greater autonomy; and private management contracts to run five mills
under the National Textiles Corporation have been operating for about 36
months. The proposed project would provide technical assistance to Govern-
ment programs to improve efficiency of public sector enterprises, and
increase private sector participation.



-ll-
Industrial Finance
32.     Financial Institutions.  The traditional reliance on self-finance in
industry has declined since 1977 resulting in an increased demand for term
loans and equity participation. Until 1979, DFCC was the only source of
long-term loans and enjoied a monopoly in providing foreign exchange loans
and equity investments to private industry. DFCC's lack of domestic resour-
ces, low capital base and exposure limit hindered it in meeting increased
credit demands. Most industrial term credit recently has been made by the
National Development Bank (NDB), founded in 1979, and four domestic commer-
cial banks. The 21 new foreign bank branches, in addition to four
long-established foreign banks, have been involved mainly in financing trade
and working capital requirements of industry. The Lanka Orient Leasing
Company has been highly active in leasing since start-up in 1980, although
its business with manufacturing companies is still quite small.
33.     Capital lMarkets.  The market for shares and other securities in Sri
Lanka is poorly developed and has not been a significant source of finance
for industry. Although a small number of brokers provide a market for shares
listing about 90 companies, most are closely held or dormant and trading
volume is thin. Further development of the market is hampered on the supply
side by the limited number of medium to large companies in Sri Lanka and the
strong tradition of closely held or family ownership; and, on the demand
side, by high relative returns available on fixed interest deposits. Some
steps are being taker to revitalize the market, however, and the recent
formation of an equity fund is expected to help fill the equity gap.
34.     The Equity Fund.  In February 1982, the Cabinet agreed in principle
to the establishment of an equity fund as proposed by NDB and the Ministry of
Finance and Planning. The fund is being floated as a company with about Rs
300-400 million (US$13-17 million) in initial share capital, called the Sri
Lanka Capital Development and Investment Company (CDIC), and owned by the
Government, MDB and other Sri Lankan financial institutions including the
state-owned commercial banks. CDIC will be directed by a Board representing
the shareholders and would be managed by NDB. The principal objectives would
be to: provide equity assistance to viable new ventures receiving term loans
or equity support from member institutions; stimulate the development of the
capital market by increasing the supply of attractive equities; and assist in
increasing private ownership of public corporations or in the formation of
joint ventures between corporations and private parties.
35.     The National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB).  NDB was estab-
lished in January 1979 to promote industrial development by: providing
mediun and long term credit; mobilizing internal and external resources; and
stimulating the capital market. Its authorized share capital is Rs 2 billion
(US$87 million), of which Rs 600 million has been issued and paid up by the
Government (67%), the Central Bank (17%), and the two state-owned commercial
banks (8% each). NDB has operating autonomy under its Board of Directors,
which is appointed by the Minister of Finance. On December 31, 1982, NDB's
resources totalled Rs 1.7 billion (US$74 million), including: foreign
exchange of US$28 million under the Second SMI Credit (1182-CE) for refinanc-
ing small and medium industry loans by participating banks; US$5 million



-12-
still available under an ADB line of credit for direct project financing; and
domestic resources of Rs 937 million (US$41 million), made up of share capi-
tal and accumulated profits.
36.    NDB's policies and procedures are adequate. A Statement of Policy,
supplemented by a Strategy Statement provides operational guidelines. Since
it commenced operations, NDB has participated in direct lending, refinance
and equity investments. As of December 31, 1982, NDB had approved financing
totalling Rs 1.1 billion (US$48 million) for about 1,910 projects. Direct
loans to 62 projects accounted for Rs 833 million (US$36 million), or 75% of
the total; refinance of 1,848 SHI projects represented Rs 249 million
(US$10.8 million), or 23%; and 8 equity investments accounted for the remain-
ing 2Z. Of the 31 direct loans in 1982, 23 were for projects in the private
sector, 7 for projects in the public sector and one for a joint project. The
subsector distribution of the amount of lending in FY82 was diverse:
non-metallic mineral products, chemicals and chemical products (34Z); tourist
hotels (18%); rubber and leather (15%), agro-industries (11Z); textiles and
garments (9%) and miscellaneous (13%). The weighted average ex-ante finan-
cial rate of return of these projects is 18% and the weighted average
economic rate of return for fourteen of the larger projects is 32%.
37.    NDB's operational forecasts, based on relatively conservative assump-
tions, projects growth in direct lending and equity approvals in FY83 to be
about the same as in FY82 i.e. about Rs 370 million, and to grow by 11 to 15%
per annum in FY84-86. Direct foreign exchange commitments are expected to be
about US$7.0 million in FY83 and to total US$35 million for the period
1983-1986. As the remaining US$5 million of the ADB line of credit is
expected to be fully committed by October 1983, the proposed project would
finance the majority of these commitments. NDB's profitability is expected
to continue to be satisfactory with average returns on equity of between 14%
and 16%. It will remain well within the recommended debt:equity ratio of
8:1. Throughout the period, it is expected to have a debt service coverage
of about 2.0.
38.     The Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC). DFCC was
established in 1955 to provide financing for private enterprises in industry,
agriculture and tourism. Its authorized share capital is Rs 300 million and
paid-up share capital is Rs 100 million (US$4.4 million), of which about 21%
is held by private sector Sri Lankan shareholders; 35% by foreign
shareholders, including 9.9% by IFC; and 442 by the Government and the
state-owned commercial banks. DFCC's Board consists of 11 members, including
two appointed by the Covernment, eight elected by shareholders and the
General Manager (ex-officio). Two of the elected directors represent the
foreign shareholders (IFC and FM0). 1/ DFCC's foreign exchange resources
consisted of: two IBRD loans of US$4 million and US$8 million in the 1960s;
two IDA credits of US$4.5 million and US$8 million in 1975 and 1977; and
loans from ADB of US$5 million and US$10 million in 1976 and 1980. Domestic
resources are composed of: share capital and reserves; a subordinated
Government loan; and loan funds from the Central Bank and other banks.
1/ Nederlandse Financierings Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingslanden NV.



-13-
39.     DFCC's Statement of Policy is satisfactory and provides appropriate
guidelines for its operations. It establishes exposure limits for invest-
ments which, at present, restricts DFCC to maximum financing of about Rs 40
million (US$1.8 million). A Strategy Statement supplements the guidelines
established in DFCC's Statement of Policy. Since its inception, DFCC has
assisted about 500 projects with disbursements of Rs 535 million (US$23
million), of which 85% was in loans and 152 in equity investments. The
weighted average ex-ante financial rate of return on projects approved in
FY82 was estimated at 19% and the economic rate of return on the largest four
projects at 29%. The average fixed assets cost per job was estimated at
US$13,000 for hotels and about US$5,300 for manufacturing. Net approvals
in FY83 (year ending March 31, 1983) have been significantly lower than in
FY82, totalling Rs 49 million or one-quarter of FY82 approvals due to general
slowdown in investment demand, increased competition and the lack of adequate
project promotion.
40.    DFCC's operational forecasts anticipate growth of 20% in net
approvals in FY84 from the low volume of the previous year, or to about Rs 60
million (US$3 million) as a result of improvement in the investment climate
and project promotion through the establishment of a project promotion and
identification unit. During the period July 1983 to June 1986, total foreign
exchange commitments are expected to be about US$11 million. As DFCC expects
to exhaust by March 1984 its remaining US$3.5 million foreign exchange
resources from ADB, the proposed project and a US$3.2 million loan from FMO
would provide DFCC's foreign exchange funding during 1984 to 1986. Domestic
resources are expected to be provided by DFCC's increased share capital base
and by the Central Bank's refinance fund. DFCC's profitability is expected
to grow at about 20% per annum, reflecting the increased volume of its opera-
tions. As a result, returns to equity are expected to be between 16% and 21%
during the 1984-87 period. DFCC expects to maintain a debt-equity ratio
within its 7:1 limit and to have a debt service coverage of about 1.2.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.     The proposed project was appraised in November/December 1981, but
processing was deferred due to a slow-down in investment activity. A
post-appraisal mission visited Sri Lanka in March/April 1983. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. on May 25-26, 1983. The Borrower's delegation
was led by Mr. C. Chanmugam, Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.  A staff
appraisal report (Report No. 3847-CE, dated June 6, 1983) is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III presents a
timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of the
Credit.
Strategy and Scope
42.     The proposed project is designed to increase output, efficiency and
employment of viable private and public industrial enterprises. The opera-
tions of NDB and DFCC would be supported by finance to meet foreign exchange
lending requirements and technical assistance in project promotion, appraisal



-14-
and supervision. The financial system also would be strengthened by the
encouragement of consortium financing arrangements among the development and
commercial banks. An important objective would be to assist the Government
in improving the performance of public sector enterprises. The project aims
to develop corporate planning, to increase autonomy, to introduce performance
incentives, and to tzplore various modes of increasing private sector par-
ticipation in public enterprises.  The project would provide technical assis-
tance to the Governrent in implementing a phased program of tariff reform.
Also, a study of industrial incentives would be undertaken and a rationaliza-
tion of industrial lending rate policies pursued.
The Credit Component
43.     Eligibility for Loans.  The proposed $23 million credit component
would be available to both development banks on a competitive basis without
preallocation. DFCC, a World Bank Group client for 15 years, is expected to
continue to concentrate on stedium-scale private industry. NDB, an IDA client
through the SKI Projects, has a large capital base and a role in financing
private and public sector projects. Under the lending component of the
project, VDB and DFCC would be responsible for subproject appraisal, onlend-
ing and supervision and would make withdrawals from IDA for the subloan
amounts represented by imported machinery and equipment. Subprojects
eligible for flnancing under the proposed project would Include new or exist-
ing private or public manufacturing, mining and agro-processing industries.
As the major focus of the proposed project is on the manufacturing rector,
other commercial undertakings, including retail trade, property development,
and other purely service activities would not be eligible. Hotel and related
tourism projects would be eligible, provided that these loans do not exceed
30Z of the development banks' respective portfolios. The proposed Credit
would finance loans; equity investments would be financed from the develop-
ment banks' own resources or by the equity fund. NDB's public sector
industrial projects are expected to be mainly for balancing, modernization
and replacement, except when public corporations participate in joint ven-
tures with private local or foreign partners. The minimum subloan size would
be Rs 2 million (US$87,000), wh'-ch is the maximum subloan size under the
Second SMI Project (Credit 1182-CE). The maximum subloan size would be
determined by the exposure limit of each development bank: in the case of
NDB, Rs 100 million (about US$4.4 million); in the case of DFCC Rs 40 million
(US$1.8 million).
Technical Assistance Component
44.     Consortium Lending. A formal arrangement for consorti?m financing of
industrial projects has been established to: (a) provide lenders with a
mechanism for spreading lending risks and exposure; (b) offer clients a wider
range of financial services; (c) have an impact on project appraisal stand-
ards; and (d) provide an effective mechanism for the investment funds to be
invested in suitable industrial undertakings. Appraisal of individual
projects will be done by one member, with others free to participate on the
basis of this appraisal. The consortium consists of the development banks,
the domestic commercial banks, foreign banks, and the investment funds,
including the equity fund, the Employees' Trust Fund, the Provident Fund, and
the State Insurance Corporation. Th-e proposed project would assist in the



-15-
establishment of suitable standards and procedures for the consortium and
would provide about 30 man-months of consultant services and 48 man-months of
training to strengthen management information systems and appraisal and
supervision techniques in the commercial banks participating in the consor-
tium. In addition, the project would finance technical assistance to NDB to
launch the operations of the Equity Fund and develop suitable operating
policies and procedures (para 34).
45.     Industrial Policy.  The proposed project would assist the Govermnent
in a program of tariff reform, utilizing the findings of the Effective
Protection Study (para 28). By June 30, 1984, the Government would submit to
IDA for review a phased action program for tariff reform incorporating the
recommendations of the effective protection study (para 28) and begin
implementation of the first phase of the program with effect from Septem-
ber 30, 1984 (Section 4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)). The
proposed project would provide six man-months of technical assistance towards
this objective. The project also would provide 12 man-months of technical
assistance to the Ministry of Finance and Planning for an industrial incen-
tives study to assess and make recommendations regarding: (a) the
appropriateness of the existing export incentives package; and (b) whether
the incentive structure provides undue encouragement to enterprises such as
tourism, transport and import trade relative to industry. The consultant
would be expected to recommend any needed changes in fiscal incentives or
trade po:.icies. The study is expected to be completed by end-1984.
46.     Public Sector Efficiency.  The project would assist the Government to
improve the productivity and efficiency of public enterprises by supporting
actions in three areas:
(a) The project would seek to develop a more effective relationship
between the Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs (HISA),
which oversees operations of most state industrial corporations
and the corporations responsible to it. MISA is establishing a
Public Enterprise Cell to work with the corporations on the
preparation of corporate plans focussing on results rather than on
detailed control of corporate activities. Corporate plans coupled
with appropriate incentives and performance evaluation criteria
will form the basis on which the relationship between Government
and the corporations will be moved to one of both greater autonomy
and greater responsiveness to Government objectives. The project
would provide for 48 man-months of technical assistance to achieve
these objectives. Prior to disbursements of its public
enterprise technical assistance program, IISA would establish the
Public Enterprise Cell and present an implementation plan to IDA,
for review (Schedule 1, para 4(d), draft DCA). By November 30 of
each year, the Government would submit annual action plans for the
subsequent year for review by the Bank (Section 3.05, draft DCA).
(b) At the firm level, the project would provide the corporations
with 96 man-months of technical assistance to: improve plant
personnel policy; develop work place performance incentives;
improve accounting and financial management practices; enhance
marketing to enable concentration on competitive products; and



-16-
assess modernization and replacement requirements to improve
production efficiency. Assistance to individual corporations
would be at the request of the corporation concerned. Some areas
requiring assistance have already been identified in consultation
with the corporations.
(c) The project would also assist the Ministry of Finance and
Planning to improve overall policy toward public enterprises,
particularly those outside the administrative control of MISA.
The objectives would be: (i) developing accounting and
management information systems, (ii) review and reform of
controls affecting public sector corporations, and (iii)
introduction of corporate planning and improved performance
evaluation. The project would provide 54 man-months of
technical assistance to the Public Enterprise Division (PED)
of HOFP to help achieve these objectives. PED will work
closely with MISA to ensure coordinated approaches. In
addition, the prrject would finance technical assistance to the
MOFP in drafting legislation to enable existing corporations to
become more autonomous companies.
Costs and Financing
47.     The total project cost is estimated at US$44.0 million, including
US$41.4 million equivalent for investment in subprojects and US$2.6 million
for technical assistance and training. Foreign exchange costs are expected
to represent on average about 55% of subproject costs. Price contingencies
have been estimated assuming annual inflation of 8%, 7.5%, 7%, and 6% for
foreign costs and 15%, 13%, 12% and 10% for local costs for 1983, 1984, 1985,
1986 and thereafter respectively. The proposed IDA credit would provide
US$23.0 million for sub-loans by NDB and DFCC and US$2.0 million equivalent
for technical assistance and training. The subloan connonent of US$23 mil-
lion would cover 100% of the foreign costs of imported machinery and equip-
ment for eligible subprojects financed by NDB and DFCC. NDB and DFCC would
provide Rs 138 million (US$6 million) in local currency for subprojects; and
sponsor's contributions are expected to constitute about 30% or US$12.4
million equivalent. Under the technical assistance component, the US$2.0
million equivalent would cover costs of consultant services and foreign
training; the Government and the banks assisted would provide US$0.6 million
equivalent to cover local costs.  The propored credit would finance 250
uan-months of foreign consultants' services at an average man-month cost of
$7,000 and 48 man-months of local consultants' services at an average
man-month cost of $1,000.
Lending Terms and Conditions
48.     The Government would onlend US$23 million to ?MB and DFCC through
subsidiary loan agreements with each institution. The amounts available to
each institution would depend on their actual commitments, with no
pre-allocation to either of the two beneficiaries or by private or public
sector ownership of subborrowers. The Government would onlend to NDB at an
initial interest rate of 11% and to DFCC at an initial interest rate of 10%,
both repayable over 18 years including 5 years' grace. Fo-'eign exchange risk



-17-
would be borne by the Government. NDB and DFCC would charge subborrowers an
interest rate of initially 14% per annum. The repayment period of
sub-borrowers would not exceed 15 years including 3 years' grace (Section
3.01 (c) and Schedule 3, draft DCA). Most subloans would be for 7 to 10
years. The proposed initial onlending rate to the sub-borrowers would be
lower than the current deposit rates of the National Savings Bank (NSB) and
the deposit and lending rates of the commercial banks. Commercial banks,
however, account for a relatively small fraction of long-term (more than five
years) lending in Sri Lanka. The deposit rates of NSB have been kept high
largely through Covernment subsidy. The high deposit rates of NSB have
resulted in the overall deposit and lending rates being artificially high
relative to inflation. The Government has reduced its subsidy to NSB through
recent reduction in NSB's deposit rates from 2n% to 18% for 12-month deposits
and has confirmed its intention to reduce these deposit rates further and
progressively to reduce its subsidization of NSB's interest rates. These
changes would influence the commercial banks to make similar reductions in
their deposit and lending rates.
49.     Inflation, as measured by the Colombo Cost of Living Index, fell to
11% in 1982 from 18% in 1981, but is expected to rise to 15% in 1983 due to
upward movements in administered prices following tax adjustment. Provided
stabilization measures are continued and strengthened, inflation is expected
to decline and average about 11% during the 1984-87 period. Thus the initial
onlending rate of 14% would be positive in real terms. NDB and DFCC's
onlending rate for new loans would be reviewed semi-annually and revised if
necessary to ensure positive rates in relation to medium term inflation
projections and consistency with the structure of interest rates in Sri
Lanka. NDB and DFCC would adopt Strategy Statements satisfactory to IDA and
establish project identification and promotion units as a condition of par-
ticipation in the proposed project (Sections 2.03(e) and 3.04, draft NDB and
DFCC Project Agreements). The Strategy Statements contain lending priorities
by subsector, size, and ownership; outline the major planned activities; and
include criteria for judging economic and financial viability of subprojects.
The maximum size of eligible subloans under the proposed project would be
determined by the exposure limits of NDB and DFCC. In the case of NDB, prior
IDA review and approval would be required for all subloans above US$400,000
(Section 2.02(c), -Xaft DCA). Also, since NIDB is a new client of IDA in
direct lending operations, the first three private and first three public
sector sub-projects, irrespective of size, would require approval by IDA
(Section 2.03(a), draft NDB Project Agreement). It is estimated that 40% of
NDB's subprojects by number and 70% by amount would receive prior IDA
approval. In the case of DFCC, all subloans above US$250,000 would be sub-
mitted to IDA for prior review and approval (Section 2.02(c), draft DCA);
this free limit is expected to result in review of about 30% of subloans by
number and 602 by amount.
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
50.     Individual contracts above US$2 million would be awarded in accord-
ance with limited international bidding procedures. For smaller contracts,
NDB and DFCC would use their existing procurement procedures, which conform
to IDA's standard practices for this type of project. NDB and DFCC would be
expected to maintain records of the method of procurement and to monitor



-18-
utilization of subloans through regular supervisior. activities. Disburse-
ments would be made for 100X of the foreign exchange costs and 70% of local
expenditures for imported items procured locally for eligible subloans. As
in prior Bank/IDA projects with DFCC, full documentation of expenditures on
fixed assets would be submitted to IDA. In the case of the technical assis-
tance component, IDA would finance 100% of expenditures for consultants'
services and for overseas training.
Reporting, Accounts and Audit
51.     NDB and DFCC would submit quarterly progress reports covering their
operations under the loan and related institutional developments; financial
statements would be submitted semi-annually. MISA and MOFP would submit
quarterly reports covering progress under their techitical assistance
programs. As at present, NDB and DFCC's accounts wou'ld be audited by exter-
nal auditors; NDB would be subject, as DFCC has been, to the provisions of
the long-form audit. NDB and DFCC would submit their audited accounts to IDA
within four months of the end of the fiscal year. The accounts of subbor-
rowers would be audited according to their established practices and the
covenants in the subloan agreements.
Benefits
52.     The project is expected to yield benefits in improved investment,
output and efficiency in private and public industrial enterprises. Direct
benefits of the lending component would include about US$40 million in addi-
tional fixed and permanent working capital investment, with about US$35
million in incremental annual output once projects become fully operational.
Direct employment creation would depend on the composition of subprojects
financed; a rough estimate of jobs to be created would be 2,500, with average
investment cost per job of about US$15,000; in addition, productivity of
workers in existing enterprises would be increased through balancing and
modernization investments. The establishment of consortium lending arrange-
ments would increase the quantity and quality of projects financed by improv-
ing appraisal standards, spreading risks of larger industrial investments,
and attracting more funds to industrial finance. Establishment of the equity
fund will help address financing constraints on larger industrial invest-
ments. In addition, the project is expected to yield benefits in improved
performance of public enterprises through its support for increased autonomy,
performance incentives and firm-level efficiency. Improvements in the tariff
structure and industrial export incentives would encourage increased invest-
ment in efficient industrial enterprises which exploit Sri Lanka's compara-
tive advantages.
Risks
53.     A possible risk of the lending component of the project is a short-
fall in the number of eligible subprojects for financing. However, the
pipelines and projection of NDB and DFCC indicate credit demand in excess of
the amounts provided under the project, and the first-come-first served
nature of the credit provides flexibility in utilization between NDB and
DFCC. While it is probable that full commitment of the US$23 million loan
component will be achieved in two years, a conservative three year commitment



-19-
period is provided. Full success of the program to improve performance of
public enterprises will require strong commitment by the relevant Ministries
to: (a) replace controls with a system of accountability and performance
incentives and (b) encourage increased private participation in ownership
and management. While support of the Government for the proposed program has
been obtained, implementation will involve a delicate process.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association, the draft Project Agree-
ments between the Association and the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
and the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.     Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness include (i) the execution of the
Project Agreements on behalf of NDB and DFCC (Section 6.01(a) and (b), draft
DCA), (ii) execution of satisfactory subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government of Sri Lanka and NDB and DFCC (Section 6.01 (c) and (d), draft
DCA), and (iii) adoption of the Strategy Statement and establishment of
project identification and promotion unit by NDB or DFCC (Section 6.01(e)
of the draft DCA).
56.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOHMENDATION
57.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachopnts
June 22, 1983.



ANNEX I
-20-                                       Page 1
Mt 911 ?   CIAL IDICATOU DTA  33T
n sM                            u   mu  moon *OUM             w"
A{TWT         1IE                                                              NW @0(SIID AO)U
AGRICULTURL     25.3                 1960 ft   1970 ft     3C    U      MU & &ciic          MURAC&
CMP      CAPITA (055)                  60.0      100.0          270.0     U      61.4               6.1
ENUG! CNUON  PR CAP
cnwamaCt-S Gf      zQLVZ.aj        109o.      135.9          135.4           446.7               701.7
POPLATION AND VrAL STATISCS
POPUIAT1OND  MD-TM  cOuNUm)        9649.0    12514.0        *4675.0.
RUA  POPULATN (MNCE ar OF  AL)    17.9          21.9           26.             17.3                32.4
POPULATION PrwECIONS
POPULATION IN MM 2000 (NCJ.0)                                21.1
SUTTNS POPLAXION (NILLIOK)                                   31.1
UE  STATIONAR POPULATI  1I  EACD                           2070
POPULATION DEWITT
PER SQ. DI.                       130.7      190.7          220.0           156.1               255.4
PER SQ. Dl. AGRICULTURAL LAND     507.1      517.3          539.4           353.9              1748.0
POPULATION AGE SIIDITE (P N)
0-14 IRS.                          42.1       41.9           36.3            36.6                39.9
15-ff RS.                           54.3       54.3           59.6            59.7                S6.3
65 DRS. AND ABOVE                    3.6        3.6            4.2             3.5                 3.3
POPULATION RT  URT (ECOT)
TOTAL                               2.5        2.4            1.6             2.0                 2.3
URBAN                               4.7        4.3            3.6             3.3                 3.9
CRUDE BIRMT  RAE (PEt TIOUSAN)       35.7       30.1           27.6            29.3                31.6
CUMDE DATH RAZE (PE 901OD)            9.2        6.9            7.3            11.0                 9.6
GROSS REMPDUCTION RATE                2.6        2.2            1.6             2.0                 2.0
FAMILY PLAtUIG
ACCEPNTRS, ANUAL (TUSAS)             .         5. 5.3       113.0/c
USERS (PERCENT or MIED 11W11)        ..        6.2           41.d1           19.3                36.3
FOOD LND NUTRITION
INDEX O FO  PRODUCTrION
PU CAPITA (1969-71-100)           n3.0      :W3.0       U     2.0           108.1               115.6
PER CAPITA SUPIy OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RQU1RSE )                       102.0      108.3           96.7/d          97.3               106.4
PRTEIS (GRAMS PE   T)              46.0       47.1           43.37           56.9                54.4
OF 131CR ANIMA AD PULSE          13.1       11.6            7.1            20.0                 13.9
AILD IIAZS 1-4) mOTALIYT IATE         7.1        5.1            3.2            10.9                 6.7
RELTE
-WE amwATct A s.am (Cum)               62.0       63.6           65.7            57.6                59.6
DNFAT IEORTAI.T  AE  (PU
WIOUSAND)                            70.6       56.5           44.2             9.1                63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WAIER (PECRT CY
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..       21.0           20.0/c          32.9                32.0
URBAN                                ..       46.0           45.d7-5         70.7                51.9
RURAL                                ._       14.0           L3.d7o          22.2                20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCUIT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..       64.0           59.01.          18.1                37.7
URBAN                                . .      76.0           6B.d7           72.7                65.7
RURAL                                ..       61.0           55.0d7           4.7                24.0
POPULATION PER PNYSICIAN           4493.0     5958.5         6700.1          3297.6              3540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4169.0/f   2256.0         2039.3         14929.3              4B29.4
POPULATION PR NOSPITAL BED
TOrAL                             316.6      331.5          340.7          1100.4              1067.5
UaRBN                             100.9/f    216.0             ..           301.3               651.6
RURAL                            1063.8T7    563.4             ..          5615.7              2597.6
AZIKISSIONS PER HOsL BED              ..         4.4           Sl.Sj             *-                27.0
HOUSIN
AVERAGE SIZE OF NSENOLD
TOUL                                5.4/b      5.6
URUAN                               6.375      6.3
RIRAL                               5.27i      5.3
AVERAE NUMBER oF YFRSONS PUR ROOM
TOTAL                               2.0/h      2.5
URBM                                2.17ii     2.7
RURAL                               2.07W      2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITT (PERCEN
OF DEIEILINCS)
TIoL                                7.5/h      9.0
URUBA                              35.9W      34.5
RURAL                               2.37w      3.0



-21-                                         AN    I
Page 2
TAMU.33
SRI LitCX LF INDICATS DATA 3133T
-U LAND                           EWC am6s (14310USD AV - 
LECUA              - MIOT UCUIT ISTIIA
NO T RC                            L N
1960  b    1370 ft     TRINATE f_  ASIA A PACIFIC       AllA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
AJUSTED KEOLIN     RAT UT1192
IPIDEATi    TOTAL                   n.0         93.0           NO               97.6                 96.2
aLE                   loO.100.0  10.0             ..             101.0                 3.3
FUAL1                   90.0       94.0             ..             W7.                    2.1
SECOlARs   OTA!L                    27.0       467.0          53.0             53.0                  37.6
mIs                     33.0       46.0           65.0             63.6                 41.1
/P*U                    16.0       48.0           41.0             41.3                 34.1
VOCATIONAL RSSL. CS OP aCOma)           ..         0.4           0.4ft             1.7                 20.6
PIUPL-TELA   RATIO
WDREST                              31.0        16.4          32.2              37.7                 35.5
SwBm*a                                ..          ..            ..              20.2                 25.0
ADULT LiTERc? LaT (PECE)              75.0 /f    77.6           65.0              32.1                 73.1
CONSUNPTIC
F&ssC CARS aC THO01SMOUID                                                         15                    .
POPULATIOII                          6.4         7.0           6.6/ 1-5                               1.6
RoIO UCEIVERS PR THUSAD
POPULATION                          35.3        40.0          43.5              35.4                116.5
Tv RcEzms PER TlO SNsD
PorUAnoc                              ..          ..            ..               3.2                 37.6
NEISPAPER ('DAILY CUR!.
NUsr) CICULTION P
TIWUSAND POPULATION                   36.0        46.9            ..              16.4                 53.7
CINIA AP4!L ATTENVANCE PER CAPITA      3.0         7.6           4.                3.6                  2.6
uoa rou
M1tflkR FORCE (THOS S)              3390.6      416.9         564.5.
PREs (PERCENT)                      22.6        23.7          24.7              29.5                 33.6
AGICIULTIRE (CUIT)                  56.0        55.0          54.0              70.0                 52.2
INDUSEIT (PERCaT)                   14.0        14.0          14.0              15.0                 17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCNT)
TOTAL                                 34.3        33.5          34.5              40.0                 36.5
HALE                                  50.6        49.1          50.9              51.6                 50.5
FEEALE                                16.2        11.5          17.4              23.6                 26.6
ECONMC DUEC  RATIO                       1.3         1.4           1.2               1.0                  1.1
INCO- DlSltITIOII
RECEIVED W
HIGHEST 5 PERC      OF 0oUSEHOLE    26.4/b      16.2            6./ W
HIHEEST 20 PRUCETW OP UO SENO       52.175      43.4          42...
IjOZST 20 PERCENT OW IIWS71JS        4.75        7.5           7
LST 40 PERCE   wF CROUSOL           13.77ii     19.2          19.3;.
POWvE   TARSC GROUIS
ESTIMATED AsSOLUE POER? ENC
LEVEL (USS PE- CAPITA)
URRN                                  ..          ..            ..             133.6                194.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..            ..             111.5                155.1
ESTDIATED  EATV   voYER? INCOME
LEVEL (USS PR CAPITA)
URNI"                                 ..          ..           ..                ..                 176.2
RENAL                                 ..          ..           ..                ..                 164.9
ESTIATED POPULATI 501  POV ERT
INCOME LEVL (PERCENT)
Uissu                                 ..          ..            ..              43.6                 24.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..            ..              51.7                 41.1
Not available
N(ot applcable.
NOTSES
a   The group averag   for ech ndicator are popelatiom-weIgbted arithmetic _mam.  Covrage of countriem
1,on0. the lndicators d_pen on availability of data ad to not unifor.
/b  Unalsr othbrwis  notad. daat for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 ad 1961; for 1970. between 1969
ad 1971; and for Moat Recent Eette, betwee  1976 aS 1960.
Ic  1976;  Id 1977; /e 1975; /f 1962; & 1973; /b 1963; IL 1956.
May. 1982



-22-                                                              MR 
-                                                   ~~~~~~~Page 3
imma  ali_  .. ma _mb _a  _Em mmI _mli _d lbP mm i                 ls m  5m.  Si*| li a_ *ha mml _b ab  - a maa-
_1_.. =:..s Ii memamahEmmadlb,, iam ml   _b  _,,alba  _a am   _m ,,, ilm  ,,mis  mau, mi,mi ma d. lb  _a
mb..., mla  aamlb  nnaml _a. bhaa ma.  a  lU3l  mmmals_ mim diamaabEm mmaa
lhb mmmammaaa()m  ma| _mm   lw ml b _ai  amm  _H _ a* ama sa*  mml  z                      S               si _m  _a  sae 
_,. ma ; .shamus ma  man mm   b* Emmal, .ll _.maa   _m mama  _lL  mm                                        -"i       *'im mans   mmS aa   mw.
mi..alaa  lmlia.I  amma ,     aasam    msaminamal  miamlam.  ma. a,aamh .almasm ma ,..ml, m ,
mis'- iim    umlmsmeE   a * .im  ma aa-                              lmra       mm  aSmam    a          amim.i,a
_m m enamam. mai  ma-Il pul ~- m  blaLaa196aa                        bllSam   maa   iia-  melimbam saii  ammil
EU1. .5 .31 aaa                                                       m_ma  _am. m.  amamma m. *Smh a.  im.imSm    _a
_ai  ma eni a lma   ma de ma_a ImSa. lam mamla
ew          -| ma  ammmi ml mmmma maa Smam                               *im    mm_ m_  _miil lmla  _a psimmaus l _ulila
_ ~ ~~~mma samb|e       mae _   _a- _iia ma-&    _ ubm  aim-      ma_  ml  0ulamla ima am mmml _.pSl ma  _am  ma maamm|
mikitwlS mimm *  m_ mmm *_ lmlm _ - _mla £.1. 1, . ma 1616             ama.   _pmilia balal _m Imai mml             mm.
"" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~aa mmm mm mama  5mm Ammham
_m mamamama  m. mm_m  am am.                                         ma "i     Em amim mamma.
ae!=W~~~~~~~ U-                                                                        _ i*     -m_a_mmg
_ _       ma ma ma _ bm _ iin  ma _ m   a mamma.          kili. m_mmma. imUi  maL   m_             _i   miim  ma
immi  mamm  __  ailinn in   man  l "ba  m== mam                 =        d __ma
maa  mlailI   mm ai  as aa1b mu _mm Sm                             ml mais . ahm mamml _ lll.s|i  muala__ml_,.
famlili maaa  m   maaal ma _a  _mi pimi saimama
_e mm*  Sm aim m       ma am mam ai  amlam  ml mala
_maslmay ae   m hmami ___     mf.                                            L _
IsalmuiIm* ma  inm  ppaaimmaaSm                        _ mm amA aims_1
1biI1mmn  ma ma am mama, ma aim ma me maumn ma-                     ma      aE        am   p_   jama am _aam  __ sam
ml _m amlm  imml mm . _bmmmm   eli  ai ma1                           mum _a _mmm mmm   m_li  me~1 mama in mm
S lb ma _m  ma ma mm ml jamiimm la amaamnma                                      -   ~~. --~         ' ~d  am im-mmm
_m mm.                                                               mam  'a   - am         am ma. ml mw_umyamam
_~~~~~~- lb _m m_l minm' _.am                                  maiia        . maml, me mama miSma ma smlmaa 
sla uiihmmma                                                      mall a U ma _* mai ml __- ma mmm  m   amL,
-.a mm  _laM. 61 m  UN ia.w                                         miI *                   . - m   smsm  mm  psim  ma_-
_'.bmimJm-la   aa   _m imaIml_ _ab                                   mal memaiam    l _am  *aamm
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  --- ma -@-                                                       ima mamm m_i Sm _
_ _~~~~m~                     -M   as mam.a  is*-              pma _a          _          _.i~~  sm              ah
m          _ mmi ma mamma sa  mm    ammam   lm-mm-memmn5m
ma mama  mW  5-. ..i. ma lm |. |  __t_u _I_
S.! L      a4mJ  -= ami    _b ma                ml all-m                _b_r    _ -tin        |      - ll__ mum ml _|0 im mmamm
lmm  lam. 1_3 _a    __m                                                   11 _m    *_| imi ma   mZ ml l  _1_m _i lam am-
k.       ff          imm  mAm ml imami    am  amL Sam| am              Isi   mam _mal _   aa   ma is _m __      wami _   l  mn_
_S~~~~am _             n ma m    _imm  mamma ma-ali 5            am  a mmiamaa    m  mi aa emah am bam
Is, _ma  ma   _I-g _    ma         ma k-m.g Lim. ma_ .m  ml m_i *am  llaa
____________.  _              ___ -    l mw          _v                __mwma3   maam1ummam
__|f_f___                     ma__  l mlmm                    _ __ ___ __ __                     l1        m  a
mU mam  mm ma mm __ _m                                               mam  _l -a , *ts _am. _kIn| am a maal
_ ___ __1__B._ _ _ _ -_ _______ _* _____m  adlim  amm. am1m    m   ma n
_  _ _16mmmm                a   __  _- Um  _l ma _ l ml           _     1 i       S w _inaa            a mam am _a __  mt_lB
_m ma mamam   __. S i    am pUa  -_ _m.__  . . _im                   ma mAml _aa
ma      immi mala uamem Ula _ab     Iinin rm                         ma mamms ma.  6mam_a
_ia ma bLmhms . rlm   aa_a hm  _a_. p_                                J4      1_  r *E  _.m  ma_ mmi. _ma         . _ Am_. __"_
mas ma diammlaLam  e mamma1, mmUm U   mI_ imm-aiihl,. ma  m                                    a mamm. m  mlmm 
Emna  imas 5am1blw  __* _4 1. mm| ma lw a_                           am. is  ma am  m.
________________________   immb amm   lm  amm                       VSa_a  aaSm    - mmi _i.m  lai  Pm alimm
mam mama a. m       . _a r_a- mli ha mmm mama  lb   ma               wlmigamm            mm ikpnima.m   m  m    i
am                m                t- immm  mal m lam is
___ m_u mmam   I   mm   m  milnam  i   a107da                       ____________________
_-_ld la          *.4 ml  _m  *_r_ man        _       _ aam   mSbmammhm   mmam m
mms_s aam aim mai  maa                                               maldhaesm_Im,m_mad alm  mlamhl mmam
ram   _a 3mm  * v -m _au _l                mama _ia ma. mm                                          _1 im  m-  _m-
ma aaw  _mmi   mmamli _mS awbm                   ammalsm
miImli(am  mm   amm   aa eamam   mammmamim.aammml.iae aamma  a



-23-                                ANNE[ I
Zage 4
SRI LANKA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OUTRJT IN 1982 BY SECTOR                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z, eonBtant priees)
Value Added
$ million    X               1970-77        1977-82       1970-82
Agriculture          1,209     27.4                2.0            4.0          2.9
Industry a/          1,205     27.4                2.1            6.5          3.9
Services             1,990     45.2                3.7            7.2          5.2
Total b/         4,404    100.0                2.9            6.2          4.3
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982
USS Millon         z
GDP at Market Prices                              4,820          100.0
Investment                                        1,465           30.4
Gross National Savings                              735           15.3
Current Account Deficit                             730           15.1
Exuorts of Goods and NFS                          1,364           28.3
Imports of Goods and NFS                         2,248            46.6
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs Million)     Z of GDP at Market Prices
198_         1975      1981     1982_
Current Receipts c/               16,603         17.2      17.9      16.5
Current Expenditures d/           18,075         18.3      19.7      18.0
Current Surplus                   -1,472        -1.1       -1.8      -1.5
Capital Expenditures e/           15,952          7.3      13.9      15.9
External Assistance                8,597          3.2       8.9       8.6
a/ Manufacturing, mining, construction, and utilities.
b/ GDP at factor cost.
c/ Includes capital revenue.
d/ Includes advance accounts.
eI Includes net lending.
May 6, 1983



-24-                          A£3ZS I
SRI LANU: ECONOKIC INDICATOUS
MONEm; CREDIT; AND PRICZS                  1970      1976       1977      1978      1979      1960      1981     1982
(end of period)                             -s ki-ii-
Money and Quasi Money                     3,115     6.321      8,717     10,892    15.056    19,860    24,447  30,510
Rank Credit to Publlc Sector              2,856     4,323     4,6S9       4.226     6,267   13,095    17,277  21.828
Bank Credit to PrIvate Sector             1,320     2,929     4,116       6,449     8.705    12,709    16.690   20,570
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
)
Mon"y and Quasi Money as Z of CDP          22.8      20.9      23.9       25.5       28.7      29.9      28.8     30.4
General Price Index (1970-100)            100.0    145.2      147.0      164.8      182.6    230.2    271.6   301.1
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                        +5.9      +1.2      +1.2    +12.1        +10.8    +26.1    +18.0   +10.9
Bank Credilt to Public Sector             +10.4    +! 3.0      +7.7      -9.3       +48.3   +109.0    +31.9   +26.3
Bank CredIt to Private Sector              +8.6    +22.6    440.5    +56.7          +35.0    446.0    +31.3   +23.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MM.CKAIDISI EIYORtS (1962)
1980     1981     1982                                         $ Billion         S
(uSS Bilio)
Tea                             305         29.5
Exports of Goods, UFS                1,297    1.346   1,361             Rubber                           112         10.9
Imports of Goods, NFS                2,205    2.055   2.248             Coconut Products                  72          7.0
Resource Gap (deficit         -       -90      -709    -884
All Other Comeodities           54U         52;6
Interest Payments (net)                -12      -82      -85
Workers Remittan  s                      -        -        -                   TOTAL                   1.032        100.0
Otber Factor Payments (net)            -14       -7      -10
get Transfers                          136      203      249
Balance on Current Account            -798     -595    -730           ZEENAL DEVW  (S MiUln) a1
Dlrect Foreign Investment               43       49       55                                         December  Dfsacber b/
Net MILT Loans                         247      330      458                                           1931       19d2
Disbursements                        309      &42      571
Amortization                          62       92      116            Total Outstanding             3.083      3.695
Capital Grants                         136      162      162
Other Capital (net)                    157       21       2B             Total Outstanding
Change In Reserves (+ - increase)    -220       -33      -27               and Dlsbursed              1.594      1.961
Gross Reserves (nd-year)               377      451      514
Net Reserves (end-year)                 38        5      -22
DEIT 51111CZ RATIO eI (S)        8.0       11.3
Crude Ol5 and Petroleum Products
laports                              4C9      448      S90
Exports                              169      175      156          I31D/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1983 USS Million)
RATE OF EXCEANGE
Outstanding and DIsbursed           31.5   186.9
End 1978               End 1981                                          Undiabursed                         37.9   429.2
ussl.O- Rs 15.51       JiSlr.O0- Rs 20.55
Rs 1.00 - US$ 0.06    Re 1.00 - US$ 0.05                                 Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                       69.4   616.1.
End 1979               End 1982
USSEW- Rs 15.45        U_SS1T0- is 21.32
Rs 1.00 - USS 0.06    Ri  1.00 - MS 11.05
Enid 1980
USS1.00 - Rs 18.00
Rs 1.00 - MSS 0.06
a/ Repayable In foreign currencies a*d d tb a maturity over one year.
b   Prelimnary estimate.
i/ Ritio of debt service (excluding interest on sbort-term capital and iDF repurcbas s. but
includilg DIMF interest charges) to exports of goods and services.
South Asia Programs Department
-^y ;, los



-25-                          ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
US$ Million
Loana or                                                          Amount (net of
Credit                                                            cancellations)
No.   Year Borrower          Purpose                        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Eight loans and eleven credits fully disbursed               72.9   82.7
666   1976  Sri Lanka  Tank Irrigation Modernization                5.0       1.3
701   1977  Sri Lanka  Hahaweli Ganga Development II               19.0      11.7
709   1977  Sri Lanka  Water Supply                                 9.2        .2
818   1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)              21.0      12.7
891   1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                20.0      12.9
900   1979  Sri Lanka  Road Maintenance                            16.5      10.1
931   1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                         15.5     13.1
942   1979  Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries                 16.0      4.9
979   1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance          3.0       1.6
994   1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                    53.0     32.5
1017   1980  Sri Lanka  Rubber Rehabilitation                       16.0     15.1
1023   1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                          30.0     30.0
1041   1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                         30.0     26.4
1048   1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                 19.5     15.2
1079b/ 1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                    33.5     23.1
1130b/ 1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry                       13.5      8.4
1160b/ 1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation           30.0     24.3
11665/ 1981  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development III              90.0     59.8
1182b/ 1982  Sri Lanka  SMI II                                      30.0     28.4
1210b/ 1982  Sri Lanka  Seventh Power                               36.0     31.4
1240b/ 1982  Sri Lanka  Tea Rehabilitation and
Diversification                           20.0     19.2
2187b/ 1982  Sri Lanka  Eighth Power                         42.7     -       37.9
1317b/ 1983  Sri Lanka  Forestry I                                   9.0      9.0
Total,                                                      115.6  618.4    429.2
of which has been repaid                                   46.2    2.3
Total now outstanding                                        69.4  616.1
Amount sold,                             3.6
of which has been repaid               3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA a/                            69.4  616.1
Undisbursed                                                                 429.2
a!  Prior to exchange adjustments.
b/ IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in US dollars
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in the President's
Reports and disbursed amounts shown in US dollars equivalent at the
rate of exchange for the SDR on March 31, 1983.



ANNEX II
Page 2
-26-
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTHENT (as of Iiarch 31, 1983)
Amount (US$Million)
Year           Obligor                 Type of Business        Loan  Equity  Total
1970      Pearl Textile                Textiles                 2.50   0.75    3.25
1977/80   The Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon     Development Banking          -   0.15    0.15
1978/81   Bank of Ceylon               Development Banking      7.00      -    7.00
1979      Cyntex                       Textiles                 3.15   0.54    3.69
1979      Mikechris Industries         Polypropylene Bag        0.89   0.10      .99
1980      LOLC                         Leasing                     -   0.25    0.25
1981      Taj Lanka Hotels                                     19.30    .70   20.00
Total Gross Commitments                           32.84   2.49   35.33
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, and Sales                     15.55    .75   16.30
Total Commitments now Held by IFC                 17.29   1.74   19.03
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1983 I/
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 nillion of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now entering its final year. Despite earlier local
budget constraints, implementation progress has generally been satisfactory.
Construction on three of the five tanks has been completed and the
rehabilitation works, with some exceptions, are good quality. Considerable
work remains to be done and careful scheduling of activities will be required
to complete the project in 1983. Actual project expenditures amounted to Rs
247 million through end-1982, leaving a balance of Rs 42.5 million available
for 1983.  It is estimated that savings will amount to about Rs 9.0 million
at project completion, and there may be a need to extend the disbursement
period beyond end-1983 to accommodate remaining expenditures.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balance evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
-27-                           Page 3
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million of
June 27, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Project implementation is nearing completion, resulting in a
well-developed agricultural area with promise for sustained, high agricul-
*      tural production.  Some aspects of the project, such as quality of work and
water management need improvement which otherwise may impair project perfor-
mance. Also, a substantial amount of work yet remains to be done to com-
plete/rectify and calibrate water measurement and control structures essen-
tial for effective water management.
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of June 30, 1977;
Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project has made good progress in completing the procurement of
equipment and materials and in advancing the construction of civil works.
The IDA Credit and the IDA-administered CIDA Credit are almost entirely
disbursed. Financial Management of the National Water Supply and Drainage
Board (WDB) has improved with WDB now producing the financial information
required for management. WDB's progress in implementing consumer metering
is now satisfactory as a result of steps taken to accelerate the program;
WDB is now experiencing the difficulties normally expected to accompany the
introduction of consumer billing and collection; measures are being taken
to alleviate the difficulties.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Project progress is close to target for field work and the standard
of field operations is high. New factory equipment is improving tea quality
and raducing cost of production. Housing has fallen behind schedule because
of escalating costs but the introduction of new designs and materials has
increased building momentum. The smallholder component has lagged behind
estate development because of weak smallholder extension; this position is
slowly improving. GOSL is requesting one-year credit extension in the expec-
tation of achieving most project targets as per appraisal.
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 rdllion of
April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project is entering its fifth year, and is generally making
satsifactory progress, although implementation of some components, most
notably irrigation, has been slower than expected. Full achievement of
project objectives as foreseen in the approved documents may require extend-
ing the project period by one to two years. Civil works for livestock,
health, education, extension, rural roads and electrification are virtually
completed. The disbursement rate, which was slow in the beginning of the
project, has recently picked up.



ANNEX II
-28-                           Page 4
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of Jtne 22, 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
A general 25% reduction in budget allocations for 1981, followed by a
further 10%, has meant a rescheduling of proposed expenditures for the
project.  This has been possible without sacrificing principal project objec-
tives but at the cost of deferring major rehabilitation work until towards
the end of the project. The allocation for 1982 has been increased to the
original estimate and it is expected that tne project would be completed by
late 1984, almost one year later than estimated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Although the basic components of the T&V extension system have been
in place for some time and the Department of Agriculture (DOA) has been
making sustained efforts for its implementation, it is still not effectively
operational in all areas of Sri Lanka. Major implementation constraints
continue to be shortage of middle and lower level staff, particularly of
Subject Matter Officers, inadequate monitoring and supervision by the DOA
headquarters staff, insufficient budgetary support staff at the research
stations, etc. Procurement of vehicles and equipment, and civil works are
proceeding satisfactorily. Overseas training under the technical assistance
program has started. IDA disbursements have improved, but total disburse-
ments at current credit closing date are not likely to exceed US$5 million.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million of
July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms, defined
as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million,
so as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment crea-
tion, export expansion, regional development and economic growth. The entire
subloan amount has been fully committed. Most technical and marketing serv-
ice assistance activities have been launched.
Cr. No. 979 - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; US$3.0 million
of April 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 7, 1990; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The draft Final Report prepared by the consultant for the Transbasin
Diversion Study was completed in December 1981 and was reviewed (with IDA
participation) in Colombo during March 1982. Findings of the study showed
that development of land in the Southeast and Northwest Dry Zones would be
the most economically viable alternative uses of surplus Mahaweli water,
whereas use of this water within the North Central River Basin would not be



ANNEX II
-29-                  ~~~~~Page 5
-29-
viable. Additional studies and sensitivity analyses were agreed to be under-
taken to more fully defined development alternatives, particularly in view of
revised study constraints and assumptions. Other studies to be financed
under the credit for the Mfahaweli Ganga Development Project include addi-
tional aerial photography, topographic mapping and land classification work.
The closing dates of the Credit and the EEC Special Action Credit were
b       extended till December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of additional
studies and investigation.
Cr. No. 994 - Road Passenger Transport Project; US$53.0 million of
April 16, 1980; Effective Date: October 27, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
After a long delay by the beneficiary (SLCTB) in preparing bidding
documents for the procurement of the first batch of 660 bus chassis, a tender
was awarded in August 1981. A second award of 400 was made in October 1982.
chassis was made in October 1982. Tender documents for final 210 complete
buses have been completed and awards made.
Orders for workshop machinery, critical units and spares have been
delivered but disbursements are lagging.
Cr. Nlo. 1017 - Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$16.0 million
of June 24, 1980; Effective Date: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project continues to reach its replanting targets, but is behind
schedule on most other aspects including staffing, civil works, procurement
and GPC rehabilitation. Because of these and other reasons, disbursements
are lagging and behind schedule. Civil works continue to be delayed
primarily because of land acquisition problems. All consultants have com-
pleted their work.
Cr. No. 1020 - Telecommunicatons Project; US$30.0 million of June 24, 1980;
Effective Date:  September 10, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30,
1985
The Government has already established a separate Telecommunications
Department as part of organizational improvements under the project. The
Government has also increased overseas telephone and telex rates. SLTD's
institution building progresses according to plans and its financial perfor-
mance is adequate. There has been a long delay in preparing tender documents
and award of tenders. Most of the tenders have now been awarded.
Cr. No. 1041 - Water Supply and Sewerage II Project; US$30.0 million of
September 24, 1980; Effective Date: February 26, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
WDB has appointed engineering consultants to supervise the construc-
tion of the sewerage works under the Project and the financial consultants
for completion of WDB's organization management and financial study. The



ANNEX II
-30-                           Page 6
project exppnditures have been rephased to reflect the reduction in local
resource allocation during 1981. Procurement of materials and equipment, and
civil works for the major component of the water supply project are proceed-
ing according to the new agreed schedule.
Cr No. 1048 - Sixth Pover Project; US$19.5 million of Septenber 24, 1980;
Effective Date:  March 30, 1981; Closing Date:  March 31,                  E
1985
The IDA-financed components are now proceeding satisfactorily.  The
electricity tariff was increased again effective June 1, 1982. CEB has
appointed consultants for a program of "restoration" of systems and training:
a comprehensive training program has been prepared and implementation has
started. Engineering consultants have been appointed to design the project
components to be financed by the Saudi Fund. Consultants have also submitted
their proposals to CEB for reorganization or management structure.
Cr. No. 1079 - Second Rural Development Project; US$33.5 million of
February 2, 1981; Effective Date: June 2, 1981; Cloing
Date: June 30, 1986
In general, the project is progressing according to schedule as
revised after the 1980 and 1981 budgetary cuts. The progress on building
construction of most project components is satisfactory. The disbursement
rate which was slow in the beginning is picking up. The performance of the
consultants engaged to plan and design irrigation works is quite satisfac-
tory. The use of local supervisory consultants to assist project management
has been a mixed success.
Cr. No. 1130 - Construction Industry Project; US$13.5 million of June 1,
1981; Effective Date: August 19, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. Full-fledged training programs in
different basic skills have started. Trainee output targets set for the
period up to July 1982 for Supervisory and Heavy Plant Operators have been
achleved. After minor adjustments, cumulative output targets in all training
fields (except artisans) seem achievable by mid-1984.
Cr. No. 1160 - Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$30.0 million
of July 15, 1981;  Effective Date:  August 19, 1981;
Closing Date: December 3i, 1986
Construction continues to make steady progress although the program
has fallen somewhat below appraisal estimates due to construction delays
and overall budgetary constraints. The number of schemes to be included in
the program may fall below appraisal estimates (1,200) but the total
command area should remain unaffected since the average scheme size is
proving larger than expected. Considerable progress has been made in
resolving problems associated with the quality of construction although the
expeditious scheduling of downstream development remains a problem area.



ANNEX II
Page 7
-31-
The initial water management program has been implemented successfully by
the Department of Agrarian Services, supported by a systematic and
effective training program.  The Project Steering Committee has met
regularly and Project Management has been effective.  Most eauipment has
been procured. The monitoring and evaluation program has proceeded
satisfactorily. If budgetary constraints continue, it may be necessary to
revise the overall implementation program but the discrete nature of
individual schemes should permit this without undue difficulties.
Cr. No. 1166 - HIahaweli Ganga Development Project III; US$90.0 million of
November 5, 1981; Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1982;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1987
Construction of the Minipe Right Transbasin Canal, although scheduled
for completion by mid-December 1982, clearly will not be completed earlier
than August 1983. The contractor has submitted claims for an extension of
the contract to end-July 1983. Much construction and clean-up work remain to
be done, including some repairs to completed sections of the canal. Jungle
clearing of Zone 3 is nearly complete and most of the settlers in this zone
(mostly displaced farmers from upstream reservoir basins or work areas) have
been brought in.   Construction of social infrastructure is underway, as well
as of one distributary canal. However, construction of the nain and branch
canals is being delayed and initial irrigation deliveries in Zone 3 are not
expected before maha 1984, resulting in the settlers in this area being
without irrigation water for the first two years after settlement. GOSL has
assured IDA that future settlement activities will be closely coordinated
with the provision of irrigation wat-er and the completion of necessary social
infrastructure.
Cr. No. 1182 - Second Small and Medium Industries Project; US$30.0 million
of February 5, 1982; Effective Date: Hay 5, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is underway. The project is national in scope
and builds upon the organization and capabilities initially developed under
SMI I.
Cr. No. 1210 - Seventh (Mahaveli Transmission) Power Project; US$36.0
million of April 8, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closirg Date: May 31, 1985
Progress on this project is reasonable satisfactory. The contracts
for the 220 kV lines, 220 kV transformers and HV switchgear have been
awarded.



ANNEX II
-32-                           Page 8
Cr. No. 1240 - Tea Rehabilitation Project; US$20 million of June 28, 1982;
Effective Date: November 12, 1982; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986
Management consultants have commenced their field study. Factory
equipment and vehicle tenders are being evaluated. Field rehabilitation
activities are ahead of schedule, but field diversification is slightly
behind schedule. Profitability of the two tea corporations has improved.
La. No. 2187 - Eighth Power (Diesel) Project; US$42.7 million of
of August 18, 1982; Effective Date: November 11, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Tenders for the single contract of entire components except the
technical assistance have been evaluated. The Bank has concurred with GOSL's
evaluation and contract award.
Cr. No. 1317 - Forest Resources Development; US$9 million of February 2,
1983; Not Effective Yet
The basic objectives of the project are: (a) strengthening planning
capability in the forestry sector; (b) reducing constraint of skilled man-
power in the sector; (c) improving the management of existing forest planta-
tions and establishing new plantations on a limited scale to met projected
industrial wood shortages; and (d) strengthening research aned trial programs
to improve sector productivity. The project would include the following
major components: (a) a forestry master plan, including a five-year invest-
ment program; (b) forestry training; (c) industrial wood plantations; and (d)
technical assistance.
Project implementation is underway.



-33-
ANNEX III
Pag~e 1
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare project
6 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
NDB and DFCC with the assistance of
IDA missions
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA
August 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission 1/
November 15, 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 26, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 31, 1983
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
1/ Further processing of the project was deferred in April 1982. A post-
appraisal mission in March-April 1983 updated the Staff Appraisal Report.



-34-
ANNEX III
Page  2
(a) The Covernment to provide IDA with a phased action
program for tariff reform by June 30, 1984, and
start implementation with effect from September 30,
1984 (pars 45);
(b) The Goverment to present annual action plans by
November 30 each year to Implement the technical
assistance component of the Ministry of Industries
and Sclentiflc Affairs (para 46(a));
(c) NDB and DFCC would adopt satisfactory Strategy
Statements (para 49); and
(d) I1DB and PFCC would establish project Identification
and promotlon units (para 49).
Condltion of Disbursement
For the techuical assistance component of the
Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs,
the Govermnent would establish the Public Enterprise
Cell and present satisfactory Implementation plan
to IDA (para 46(a)).
1
1I



0RD 1727B
MAY OM~
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JAFFNA
... _                 r*    National Capital
I                         -                        District Baundarims
_Uu.rn                                   - MN   Provincial Boundaries
NORTHERN  '--r
<   VNW'A      _._
MANNAR 
\ TRINCOMALEE
(f         kMURADHAPURA                    -
f~~~
-.w NORTH CENTRAL
PUTTAL i I M                               POLONNARUWA
,2               ~~~r 
NORTH                              j -                 i
WESTERN
*       KURUNEGUA Lh                                EASTERN
JMATALE
... J...-.   -CENTRAL. --.
"    KANIDY                              'Kj
GAMPAHA j                              1                            / AMPARAI
.                     m                        W                         U. VA
|m                                   N D j A  NUWAR.
~  ~'-r   -?    EWJA  '      ~     I   MON~ERAGALA
SOUTNKALUTARA
'41
I ND IA                      ~-_                            HAMa8NTOTA
SOUTHER'N                                mi.                  02
in _0  40 _






