Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  3847-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 6, 1983
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Sri Lanka Rupee
Sri Lanka has a floating exchange rate: on December 31, 1979, the
rate was US$1 = Rs 15.45; on December 31, 1980, US$1 = Rs 18.00;
on December 31, 1981, US$1 = Rs 20.55 and on December 31, 1982,
US$1 = Rs 22.90. The following rate is used in this report.
US$1           =  Rs 23.00
Rs 1           =  US$o.044
Rs 1 million  =  US$44,000
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
BOC    -   Bank of Ceylon
CBOC   -   Commercial Bank of Ceylon
COPE   -   Parliamentary Commission on Public Enterprises
DFCC   -   Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
EDB    -   Export Development Board
EPR    -   Effective Protection Rates
FIAC   -   Foreign Investment Advisory Committee
F'tO    -   Nederlanske Financierings Mtaatschappij voor
Ontwikkelingslanden NV
GCEC   -   Greater Colombo Economic Commission
GOBUs  -   Government Owned Business Undertakings
GOSL   -   Government of Sri Lanka
ECECI  -   Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
loP    -   Industrial Development Project
LIAC   -   Local Investment Advisory Committee
LOLC   -   Lanka Orient Leasing Company
41SA   -   Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs
MOFP   -   Ministry of Finance and Planning
NDB    -   National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
NSB    -   National Savings Bank
SMI    -   Small and Hedium Industries
UNDP   -   United Nations Development Programnme
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Sri Lanka         January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks            =   January 1 to December 31
NDB                         =   January 1 to December 31
DFCC                        =   April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
APPRAISAL OF AN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION .       .......................................  1
II. SECTORAL FRAMEWORK                  ...                      2
A.  Economic Setting ....................                   2
B.  Industrial Structure and Performance ............       2
C.  Industrial Policies and Prospects ...............       3
D.  Industrial Finance ..............................       5
III.  THEPJ    ..........        .     ..............................  7
A.  Strategy and Scope ..............................       7
B.  Strengthening the System of Industrial Finance ..       8
C.  Improving Industrial Efficiency ....      .............   10
D.  Components, Costs, and Financing Plan . ..........   11
IV.  THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SRI LANKA (NDB) ....    12
A.  Institutional Aspects .............. .............    12
B.  Operating Policies, Procedures and Standards ....      14
C.  Operating Performance .........      ..................    15
D.  Financial Aspects ......      .........................    17
V.  THE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON (DFCC).    19
A.  Institutional Aspects ............... ............    19
B.  Operating Policies, Procedures and Standards ....    20
C.  Operating Performance ............. ..............   22
D.  Financial Aspects ............. .. ................   23
VI.  IMPROVING EFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES  ...            26
A.  Characteristics and Roles      ..26
B.  Policy Measures and Government Links.                  26
C.  Programs to Improve Public Enterprises..               28
VII. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ...         ..          .33
VIII. BENEFITS AND RISKS .35
IX.  RECOMENDATIONS       .............36
This report was prepared by C. Bam, J. Balkind, N. Barry, and R. Heaver
(ASPID) following their appraisal mission to Sri Lanka in November/December
1981. Messrs. J. Simmons and H. Darmawi participated in the appraisal
mission. The report was updated and finalized by Mr. Balkind and Ms. Barry
following a post-appraisal mission in March/April 1983.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Indicators of Performance in Large Industries
2. Performance and Prospects of Tourism Sector
3. Interest Rate Structure
4.  Cost Estimates of Technical Assistance Component
5.  NDB:  Strategy Statement, 1982-86
6.  NDB:  Past Activities and Forecasts
7.  NDB:  Project Promotion Unit and Advisor:  Terms of Reference
8.  NDB:  Summarized Income and Cash Flow Statements, FY80-86
9.  NDB:  Summarized Balance Sheets, FY80-86
10.  DFCC: Strategy Statement, 1982-86
11.  DFCC:  Summary of Operations, FY78-83
12.  DFCC:  Synopsis of 15 "A" Subprojects Financed Under Credit 742-CE
13.  DFCC:  Actual and Projected Income Statements, FY79-86
14.  DFCC:  Projected Cash Flow Statements, FY83-86
15.  DFCC:  Actual and Projected Balance Sheets, FY79-86
16. Characteristics and Performance of Public Sector Enterprises, 1981
17. Program to Improve Public Enterprise Performance
18. Problems of Selected State Industrial Corporations
19. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
20. Supporting Documents Available in Project File
Map
Number 17278: Sri Lanka Industrial Development Project



SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Since 1977, the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has focussed its
industrial development efforts on the private sector. Trade liberalization
measures have been geared to facilitate imports of inputs and equipment.
Manufactured exports have been promoted by: encouraging joint ventures with
foreign partners; providing special export expansion and credit schemes; and
improving export and product development. The system of industrial finance has
been strengthened by: establishing the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka
(NDB); attracting a number of foreign banks; and improving the local commercial
banks' project lending capabilities, particularly for smaller industrial
projects. Growth in private industrial output and exports have been sig-
nificant, reflecting: recovery from the stagnation of the previous period;
rapid expansion of the construction sector; and entry into easier export
products. The industrial base in Sri Lanka is still thin, with relatively few
medium and large private firms. Also, efforts to improve performance of the
large state industrial sector have been limited largely to reducing government
financing and introducing some measures to increase private participation in
ownership and management.
1.02    Industrial Development Project.  The proposed project is designed to
promote growth of larger private industries and improve efficiency of state
enterprises. Operations of the two development banks would be supported by IDA
financing of foreign exchange requirements of eligible industrial subprojects,
and technical assistance in improving promotion and lending operations. The
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) has been an intermediary in
two previous loans and two IDA credits. The Project Performance Audit Report
(PPAR) for Loan 634-CE, dated December 7, 1977 concluded that DFCC had per-
formed well under a difficult environment of excessive government controls and
low activity. NDB, established in 1979, has received an ADB line of credit and
substantial technical assistance under the First and Second Small and Medium
Industries Projects (IDA Credits 942 and 1182-CE). In addition to assisting
direct lending operations of NDB and DFCC, technical assistance would be
provided in establishing an equity fund to be administered by NDB and in
strengthening consortium financing arrangements involving the development and
commercial banks. The project also would incorporate a program to improve
performance of state industrial enterprises, by installing corporate plans,
increasing autonomy, introducing performance incentives, and encouraging
various modes of private sector involvement. The project would build on the
effective protection work supported under a previous project, in launching
tariff reforms and improving industrial and export incentives. This report
outlines a US$44 million project, with SDR 23.1 million (US$25 million equiv-
alent) in IDA financing, composed of US$23 million for industrial loans, and
US$2 million in technical assistance and training.



-2-
1.03    Previous Industrial Bank Group Operations.  In addition to the previous
two loans and two credits to DFCC, totalling US$24.5 million, the Bank Group
has been involved in two Small and Medium Industries (SMI) Projects, with US$46
million in IDA financing. The commercial banks are providing term loans to
SMIs; technical services are being strengthened in major product groups; and
exporters are being assisted in product development. The first SMI Project
financed the Effective Protection Study, the results of which are to be used in
tariff reforms. The IFC has: financed equity in DFCC and the Lanka Orient
Leasing Company; made two loans, totalling US$7 million, to Bank of Ceylon
(BOC) to finance medium scale industries and to improve BOC's industrial
appraisal capabilities; and invested in two hotels and three manufacturing
projects in textiles and plastic bags.
II. SECTORAL FRAMEWORK
A. Economic Setting
2.01    From 1970 to 1977, economic growth in Sri Lanka slowed to 2.9% p.a.,
and was no longer sufficient to support traditionally high levels of spending
on social sectors. Import controls and unresolved conflicts with the private
sector resulted in limited investment in industry, while government funds were
funnelled into inefficient public enterprises. After 1977, most import con-
trols were lifted, the exchange rate was allowed to depreciate, and priority
was given to private sector development and export-led growth. GDP growth
accelerated sharply to 8.2% in 1978 and averaged 6.8% per annum in the 1977-80
period. Consumer subsidies were reduced. A large share of development spend-
ing went to three "lead" projects--the Mahaweli Scheme, the housing program,
and a new free trade zone.
2.02    More rapid growth and the public investment program brought both budget
and foreign exchange deficits. Inflation of over 35% in 1980 and inadequate
resource mobilization led to a cutback of one-quarter in the oversized public
spending program. The housing program and the Mahaweli Scheme, with its long
gestation period, have exacerbated inflationary pressures. In agriculture,
improved producer prices led to a sharp increase in paddy production, but
plantation crops, which comprise 60-70% of all exports, have stagnated. The
proposed credit would finance industrial projects with reasonably short gesta-
tion periods, and relatively rapid returns.
B. Industrial Structure and Performance
2.03    Manufacturing industry's contribution to GDP has remained roughly 14%
in the past four years. Industry's share in exports has more than doubled to
about 30%, reflecting both industrial expansion and deterioration in the plan-
tation sector. Manufacturing industry consists of: 29 public sector corpora-
tions; about 9,000 registered private factories, composed mainly of small and
medium firms; 1/ and over 20,000 unregistered small and cottage industries.
1/   Units with investments in plant and equipment of under Rs 2 million (at
original cost), excluding land and buildings, the official definition
adopted in the SMI credits.



-3-
Excluding the Petroleum Corporation, about 40% of gross output in 1981 in the
large scale sector was accounted for by the public corporations, with about 25%
of production from the five largest public corporations. Large scale private
production is heavily concentrated in the food, beverage and tobacco subsector,
and in garments. The 5% real growth in manufacturing for 1981 hides widely
divergent trends. Excluding petroleum, the most rapid growth has been in
textiles and garments. 1/ Other expanding product groups have been
non-metallic minerals, structural steels, and wood products, stimulated by
growth in construction.
2.04    There are built-in limits to further expansion of the successful sub-
sectors. The volume of garment exports will be constrained by import quotas
from Western countries. The pace of both private and public construction
activity has slowed, and reduced rates of growth are already visible in steel
and certain non-metallic minerals. Much of the rest of large scale industry is
going through a painful period of readjustment in the face of foreign competi-
tion. Industrial export growth was concentrated in petroleum and garments,
each with a heavy import content. As industrial growth has slowed in the
"boom" sectors, the policy thrust must be toward further development of
non-traditional exports, greater competitiveness of existing firms, and diver-
sification into viable import-substitution areas. This project would assist in
appropriate adjustment of the industrial tariff and incentive systems, financ-
ing export-oriented projects, and improving public enterprise efficiency. It
also would help finance further development of the tourism sector which has
experienced strong growth since 1977 and for which selected segments remain
promising (Annex 2).
C. Industrial Policies and Prospects
2.05    Investment Incentives.  In 1982, gross domestic capital formation of
Rs 30.4 billion (US$1.3 billion) represented about 31% of GDP. In 1980, GDCF
represented about 33% of GDP. The two largest investment components were:
construction (39%), of which two-thirds was for the Mahaweli and housing
programs; and transport equipment (28%), stimulated by a 100% lump sum
depreciation allowance, which was removed in March 1981. From 1978 through
1980, private industrial investment probably was not more than Rs 3 billion
(US$130 million). The initial increases in industrial output after 1977 were
mainly due to increased capacity utilization, from 60% to 75%, responding to
the availability of imported raw materials. Incentives implemented in the
1977-1983 period included 5 to 10 year tax holidays and investment relief for
approved projects. The wide range of Inland Revenue Act concessions encouraged
1/ Garment exports expanded by 132% in 1979, 54% in 1980, and 40% in 1981 in
nominal dollar terms, and contributed 80% of industrial exports in 1981.
Detailed structure and performance figures by subsector are given in
Annex 1.



-4-
investment mainly in tourism and transport. The 1983 Budget withdrew the tax
holidays for new hotels 1/, but maintained these incentives for new
export-oriented manufacturing firms; this should increase the relative attrac-
tiveness of investing in export projects. The incentive system is crucial to
shaping investment; given that much of the post-liberation growth was in
tourism, transport, real estate and construction, a fresh examination of rela-
tive incentives is needed. The proposed project would help finance such a
study (para 3.09).
2.06    Tariffs.  A study 2/ of effective protection rates in industry,
financed under the first SMI Project, highlighted three major problems of the
present tariff system: (a) high levels of protection for import-substitution
industry and low incentives for export products; (b) a number of consumer
essentials with low effective incentives and high protection for several luxury
goods; and (c) 62 product lines (about 20% of the sample) with negative
value-added at world prices. Most tariff revisions since the 1977 liberaliza-
tion have been ad hoc, and in the direction of greater protection. The project
includes technical assistance in the implementation of systematic tariff reform
incorporating findings of the study, and a date by which the band between
products receiving excessively high and low effective protection rates will be
reduced (para 3.08).
2.07    Export Incentives and Promotion.  In addition to the Greater Colombo
Economic Commission (GCEC), 3/ two institutions have been developed to support
export-oriented industry: the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee (FIAC) and
the Export Development Board (EDB). FLAC examines the viability and financing
plans of all applications involving foreign investment, except GCEC projects.
Export incentives are administered by the EDB, which was established in May
1979. Incentives include duty drawbacks on imports of materials used for
export products; an Export Expansion Scheme offering payments according to
increased exports, based on rough calculations of net foreign exchange earn-
ings 4/; equity participation in innovative projects; and export and product
development programs, which are being assisted under the Second SMI Project.
The EDB also recommends and monitors projects under the Central Bank's Export
Refinance Scheme. However, commercial banks have been reluctant to process
most subprojects on grounds of lack of viability, inadequate spread, and dis-
trust of EDB appraisals. As of March 31, 1983, only 43 projects, totalling
1/   In early 1983 there was a large spurt of hotel investment applications to
qualify under the old framework.
2/   Effective Protection to Manufacturing Industry in Sri Lanka,
A. G. Cuthbertson and Mohammad Zubair Khan, prepared with the Ministry
of Finance and Planning, September 1981.
3/   The incentive package for the GCEC, which is responsible for projects
located in the export processing zone, is outlined in Chapter V of the
1981 Country Economic Memorandum for Sri Lanka (Report No. 3466-CE).
4/   Under the Second SMI Project (Credit 1182-CE), EDB is assessing the extent
to which effective protection rates can be utilized to improve the cal-
culation of value-added under the Export Expansion Scheme and other export
incentives.



-5-
Rs 110 million in loans, had been approved by the banks; 78 projects with loan
amounts of Rs 250 million were pending. Sri Lanka's export performance has
been disappointing, with total real value of exports in 1977-81 being about the
same as in 1971-75.
2.08    The Public Sector.  Public sector enterprises still account for the
majority of industrial investment and output (para 6.01). Since 1977, GOSL has
concentrated on introducing financial discipline into the public corporations
by reducing their dependence on the government budget. Some initial steps to
increase private participation have been taken (para 6.10). Under the proposed
IDP, technical assistance to state industrial enterprises will be provided in
the development of corporate planning and related performance incentives;
improved firm-level operations; and enabling legislation and pilot schemes to
increase private sector participation in ownership and management of public
enterprises (paras 6.05-6.14).
2.09    Investment Trends and Prospects.  After the liberalization measures of
1977, investment in medium and large industry increased. The textiles and
garments sector was the most active, both in and outside the GCEC. However, as
Sri Lanka approached its export quotas under the Multifibre Agreement (MFA),
investment has declined, from Rs 680 million of FIAC approvals in 1979 to
Rs 162 million in 1982. The food processing and vegetable oil group repre-
sented 32% of the amount invested in manufacturing in 1982, while basic metals
and engineering industries accounted for 17%. Chemicals, rubber and plastic
industries are most promising, particularly rubber, due to Sri Lanka's exten-
sive raw material base. The tourism sector continues to be the area of most
interest to investors. In 1982, out of Rs 3.1 billion of FIAC approvals,
nearly 63% was for hotels. The 1983 Budget removed the tax holidays for five-
and four-star hotels, which should increase the relative incentive to invest in
industry, particularly export firms, which are still eligible for tax holidays.
While less buoyant expectations are necessary as compared to 1978-80, several
industries based on indigenous resources offer growth opportunities e.g. rubber
products; wood products, including furniture exports; gem-mining and jewelry;
non-metallic minerals, particularly mineral sands and graphite; and processing
of agricultural products.
D. Industrial Finance
2.10    The Financial System.  Prior to 1977, the institutional sources of
credit for industry were: the four domestic commercial banks; the Development
Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC); and four foreign commercial banks.
Traditionally, private industry relied on self-financing for up to 80% of its
fixed capital needs and on commercial bank credit to finance working capital,
with some rollovers used for term credit. Public sector industrial corpora-
tions used budgetary allocations for up to 80% of their financial requirements.
Commercial bank credit accounted for up to 85% of all institutional finance to
industry. DFCC was the only source of long term equity and credit, with a
monopoly in providing foreign exchange loans to private industry. Since
liberalization, the number and size of investments in projects have increased
and the traditional reliance on self-financing has declined, resulting in an
increased demand for term loans and equity participation. With DFCC's financ-
ing capacities hampered by a lack of domestic resources, a low capital base and
exposure limit, term lending needs have been met largely by the newly created
National Development Bank (NDB) and domestic commercial banks. The expansion



-6-
in the volume of credit available, partly through the opening of branches by 22
foreign banks, has helped fund increases in trade financing and working capital
for industry. In addition, project finance has been obtained through sup-
pliers' credits and, in a limited number of cases, through foreign currency
denominated term loans by foreign and domestic commercial banks. Equity
finance has been provided by project sponsors, usually amounting to 30-40% of
project costs; the lack of an effective equities market (para 2.12) has limited
the supply of equity funds for most companies.
2.11    Leasing.  In 1980, the Lanka Orient Leasing Company (LOLC) was created
with equity investments from IFC, Orient Leasing Company of Japan, NDB, DFCC
and Bank of Ceylon. In 1982, 355 leases were concluded with a total value of
Rs 132 million; manufacturing accounted for 22% of the number of leases and 30%
by amount. In March 1983, the Lloyds Group (UK) and Mercantile Credit Company
Ltd. in Colombo formed a new leasing company. The large trading houses also
conduct low-volume hire-purchase operations.
2.12    Capital Markets.  The market for shares and other securities in Sri
Lanka is poorly developed and has not been a significant source of finance for
industry. Although a small number of brokers make a market for shares, and
about 90 companies are listed, most are closely held or dormant, and trading
volume is thin. Development of the market has been hampered on the supply side
by the relatively small number of medium to large companies in Sri Lanka and
the strong tradition of closely held ownership; and, on the demand side, by
high returns available on fixed interest deposits and commercial activities.
Steps are being taken to revitalize the market. In addition to the formation
of an equity fund, the Government is drawing up securities legislation aimed at
establishing a formal Stock Exchange and improving the regulation of the
market.
2.13    Interest Rates and Inflation.  Current projections of Sri Lanka's
inflation are 15% for 1982/83 (July 1 - June 30), and in the range of 10% to
13% in the 1984 to 1987 period, with an average of 11%. Inflation during
1981/82 was 11%. The projected increase in 1982/83 reflects the one-time
impact of tax adjustments incorporated in the 1983 Budget. In spite of current
and projected inflation rates, deposit and short-term lending rates of the
commercial banks have been kept high, largely due to the influence of the rates
paid by the National Savings Bank (NSB). Until recently NSB offered a rate of
20% compounded annually on 12 and 24 month deposits, providing a yield of about
30% on a tax adjusted basis; these high rates were supported by a Government
subsidy, which amounted to Rs. 400 million in 1982. To compete for deposits,
commercial bank deposit rates have been kept high, with term deposit rates
ranging from 20% to 22% (Annex 3); resultant lending rates, mainly for trade
and working capital finance have been artificially high, with minimum rates of
20% to 22% when lending from the bank's own resources. In contrast, until
recently, the Central Bank provided 100% medium and long-term refinance for
"export-oriented projects", onlent by the commercial and development banks at
11% and 12%, depending on the size of the project. The term structure of
industrial finance has remained roughly constant, with over 75% of outstandings
for less than one year and about 20% from one to five years; the remaining 5%
of industrial finance with maturities of over five years was provided by NDB
and DFCC at rates of 17% until recently.
2.14    In April 1983, two important measures to rationalize the interest rate
structure were taken. NSB eliminated the 24 month deposit scheme, and reduced



-7-
the rate on 12 month deposits to 18%; GOSL intends to reduce the NSB rate still
further, to better reflect current and expected inflation levels, encourage the
flow of savings into productive investments, and reduce government subsidies.
Managements of commercial banks expect to reduce their deposit and lending
rates accordingly. The other significant move was taken by the Monetary Board
Central Bank which, at the recommendation of the IDP post-appraisal mission,
reduced the percentage of refinance from 100% to 70% under its Export Credit
Scheme, which increases the effective onlending rate to subborrowers to about
14%.
2.15    Under the proposed project, term lending rates from NDB and DFCC would
be 14%, which would be positive in relation to medium-term inflation projec-
tions. The onlending rate would be reviewed semi-annually to ensure that it
remains positive in real terms, and takes into account the overall interest
rate structure. During negotiations, agreement in substance was reached on a
draft side letter from GOSL, which confirms the Government's intention to
continue taking measures to rationalize the interest rate structure, including
progressive reduction in the NSB rate and GOSL's subsidy. The letter also
confirms the commitment by the Central Bank to adjust rates and/or percentage
refinanced under its medium and long-term industrial refinance schemes, to
ensure that lending rates to borrowers are not lower than the rate charged by
NDB and DFCC under the Industrial Development Project. Given fluctuations in
inflation experienced in Sri Lanka, it would be useful to consider introduction
of a variable interest rate system for individual subloans; however GOSL would
need to consider carefully the impact on investment and administrative require-
ments of such a system.
2.16    Credit Demand.  The reelection of the President in October 1982 and the
extension of Parliament's term should reassure investors that government's
emphasis on private sector development will continue. This should lead to
continued growth in industrial credit demand from the private sector. The
development banks' pipelines of manufacturing projects should continue to
expand with elections completed, lowering of interest rates, improved prospects
in foreign markets, and the change in relative incentives (para 2.05). As of
March 31, 1983, NDB's pipeline of projects included Rs 200 million (US$9.0
million) in foreign exchange requirements for projects in an advanced appraisal
stage and Rs 300 million (US$13 million) for projects in a preliminary stage
(paras 4.20-4.21). DFCC's pipeline totalled Rs 100 million (US$4.4 million),
excluding tourism projects (para 5.20). The development and commercial bank
consortium and associated technical assistance under the proposed project will
help to strengthen the appraisal capacity of the commercial banks, enlarge the
supply of term finance through risk-sharing, and improve coordination among the
financial intermediaries.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Strategy and Scope
3.01    The proposed Industrial Development Project (IDP) is designed to
increase output, efficiency and employment of viable private and public
industrial enterprises. Operations of the two development banks would be
enhanced, with finance to meet foreign exchange lending requirements and tech-
nical assistance in project promotion, appraisal and supervision. The system
of industrial finance would be strengthened by: rationalizing the interest



-8-
rate structure for industrial lending; assisting in the establishment of an
equity fund to be managed by NDB; and facilitating consortium financing arran-
gements among the development banks, commercial banks and otner 'unding
institutions.  An objective would be to improve performance of` public
enterprises, which constitute a major share of industrial output, but which
have operated inefficiently, draining resources. Technical assistance under
the project would be geared to installing corporate plans, increasing autonomy
in public enterprise management, introducing performance incentives and
encouraging various modes to increase private sector participation in ownership
and management. The project would help improve trade and industrial policies,
building on the effective protection analysis supported under past projects;
tariff reform would be assisted, and a study of industrial incentives would be
undertaken.
B. Strengthening the System of Industrial Finance
3.02    NDB and DFCC:  Relative Roles.  Under the proposed project the two Sri
Lankan development banks, NDB and DFCC, would have access to US$23 million of
IDA financing for the lending component; the banks would be encouraged to
compete in utilizing the credit. The client base of these banks is complemen-
tary; DFCC's smaller capital base probably will lead to its continued con-
centration on medium-scale private industrial firms; NDB is likely to play a
more significant role in financing larger private and public industrial
enterprises.
3.03    Eligibility for Loans.  Under the project, NDB and DFCC would be
responsible for subproject appraisal, onlending and supervision. While commer-
cial banks would not be lending intermediaries, their participation in consor-
tium lending, training under this project, and continued experience in
appraisal under the Second SMI Project could enable some commercial banks to
participate directly in subsequent Industrial Development Projects. At
present, capabilities of the commercial banks are inadequate for appraisal of
larger projects, and two lead agencies are adequate for the limited number of
medium and large industry projects likely to be financed in the next few years.
NDB and DFCC subprojects eligible for financing under the first IDP would be
new or existing private or public manufacturing, mining, and agro-processing
enterprises. Other commercial undertakings, including transportation, retail
trade, and property development and other services would not be eligible. 1/
However, hotels and related tourism projects, which contribute substantial
foreign exchange, would be eligible provided that such lending would not lead
to tourism exceeding 30% of NDB's or DFCC's respective portfolios (Annex 2).
The Project would finance only loans; equity investments would be financed from
NDB's and DFCC's own resources or by the equity fund (para 3.05). 2/ Public
1/  Exceptions would be for engineering workshops and for service investments
which are integral parts of an eligible project e.g. transport.
2/ Although, under Credit 742-CE, DFCC was permitted to finance equity invest-
ments from credit proceeds, this concession was made due to lack of alter-
native sources of funds. Debt financing of equity investments could create
cash flow problems and as DFCC now has more than trebled it share capital
and has good profits, IDA financing for equity investments is no longer
needed, and would not be provided under the proposed project.



-9-
sector industrial projects are expected to be mainly for balancing, modern-
ization, and replacement, except when public corporations enter joint ventures
with private partners; DFCC is not involved in financing public sector
projects, while NDB's strategy would continue to be highly selective. Except
for projects with a clear export orientation and in small equipment financing
for larger projects, the minimum total loan size (including foreign and domes-
tic portions) would be Rs 2 million, which is the maximum subloan size under
the Second SMI Project. The maximum subloan size would be determined by the
exposure limit of each development bank. NDB's exposure limit is about Rs 100
million (US$4.4 million) on any subproject, and DFCC can now finance up to
about Rs 40 million (US$1.8 million) per subproject.
3.04    Consultancy and Training.  DFCC, established in 1955, has been an
IBRD/IDA client during the last 15 years; technical assistance to DFCC under
the project would focus on project identification and promotion activities
(para 5.07). While NDB, which began business in late 1979, has received tech-
nical assistance under IDA-financed SMI Projects, the proposed project would
represent the first Bank Group loan for NDB's direct lending operations. Tech-
nical assistance and training for NDB would include: the services of a senior
advisor; consultancy in project promotion, operations, and development of the
equity fund and consortium lending arrangements; and training in industrial
appraisal (para 4.04).
Equity Fund and Capital Markets
3.05    Private entrepreneurs with limited financial resources have difficulty
in floating share issues to finance large industrial ventures. Many public
sector corporations, faced with depleted resources, have problems raising the
capital necessary to modernize or enter into joint ventures with foreign part-
ners. Initial work to restructure capital market arrangements has been under-
taken (para 2.12); however, development of an active market for industrial
finance will be a long process, due to the relatively thin base of larger
enterprises and the higher yields on savings and commercial activities. NDB,
working closely with the Ministry of Finance, proposed the establishment of an
equity fund to bridge the gap in equity assistance. In February 1982 Cabinet
approved establishment of the Sri Lanka Capital Development and Investment
Company (CDIC), to be managed by NDB and owned by GOSL, NDB and other Sri
Lankan financial institutions, including the state-owned commercial banks.
CDIC will provide equity to new ventures receiving term loans from member
institutions; stimulate development of the capital market by increasing the
supply of attractive equities; and encourage joint ventures between public
corporations and private parties. Initially, CDIC will issue share capital of
Rs 300-400 million (US$13-18 million), with NDB taking up Rs 100 million
(US$4.4 million). These funds will be used to build up a portfolio, which
would be held through the development phase, and subsequently sold to the
public. The proposed IDP would provide technical assistance to NDB to estab-
lish the fund and develop suitable policies and procedures for its operation.
Consortium Lending
3.06    Before 1977, DFCC, the only institution with direct access to foreign
exchange, was the dominant source of term loans to industry, with some
roll-overs of short term credits by commercial banks. After liberalization,
commercial banks, able to convert domestic currency, became more active in term
lending, both in rupees and foreign exchange. Also, the foreign commercial



-10-
banks and government-owned investment funds have made some industrial and hotel
investments. Based upon suggestions by the IDP appraisal mission, a formal
arrangement for consortium financing of industrial projects has been estab-
lished to: (a) rationalize the use of direct foreign exchange resources; (b)
provide lenders with a mechanism for spreading lending risks; (c) offer a wider
range of financial services; (d) improve standards and procedures in appraisal
of projects; and (e) provide an effective mechanism for the investment and
pension funds to finance suitable industrial undertakings. The consortium
consists of the development banks, the domestic commercial banks, the invest-
ment funds, and the proposed equity fund; membership also could be open to
foreign commercial banks. The arrangement should allow institutions to refer
proposals to the consortium and take up or offer participations in project
financing, with no compulsion or obligation to participate in individual cases;
the "lead" institution for a given subproject would be responsible for
recoveries and normal project supervision. The proposed project would provide
technical assistance in the development of suitable standards, procedures and
operations (para 4.05). The project also would fund technical assistance and
training to commercial banks participating in the consortium.
C. Improving Industrial Efficiency
Public Sector Enterprises
3.07    The project incorporates a program to improve performance of public
sector enterprises (Chapter VI). The Ministry of Industries and Scientific
Affairs (MISA), which oversees operations of most state industrial corpora-
tions, is establishing a Public Enterprise Cell which will work with the
management of the corporations to develop and install: corporate plans for
each corporation which will form the basis for increased autonomy; and a system
of signalling and incentives to replace the controls which currently exist on
investment, procurement, financing, personnel, and day-to-day operations of the
corporations. The project would finance consultancy in the corporate planning
and signalling systems (para 6.06). Also, operations of the corporations would
be improved through practical firm-level consultancy concentrating in the areas
of: (a) personnel policies and performance incentives; (b) cost accounting and
market analyses to enable the corporations to concentrate on competitive
products; (c) assessment of balancing, modernization and replacement, and
energy efficiency investments needed to improve production performance; and
(d) financial management. The program also would encourage and assist in
establishing private management contracts and joint venture companies involving
public corporations and private partners. Corporate plans and performance
incentives would be formulated as "public management contracts", encouraging
improvements in efficiency and profits, which would be necessary before outside
parties would be interested in buying shares or purchasing most corporations.
In addition, the project would finance consultancy to the Ministry of Finance
and Planning (MOFP) in: improving management information and accounting systems
for all public sector corporations, focussing on enterprises under supervising
ministries other than MISA; tackling procedural and control issues which cut
across public sector enterprises; and preparing legislation which would
facilitate increased private participation in ownership and management of
public sector enterprises.



-1l-
Industrial Policies and Incentives
3.08    Tariffs.  Under the first SMI Project, advisory services were provided
to MOFP to calculate effective protection rates for industrial products, and
to make recommendations on a program of tariff reform. The final report has
been reviewed within the Bank and by the Presidential Tariff Commission, which
was established during the period of the study. Systematic tariff reform,
incorporating findings of the Effective Protection Study, was delayed due to
pre-election caution and a deteriorating balance-of-payments situation.
Despite this difficult environment, initial moves are needed to implement
systematic tariff reform, beginning with product lines excessively over- and
under-protected. The proposed IDP would provide six man-months of technical
assistance to MOFP, with consultants seconded to the Presidential Tariff
Commission, to: (a) update and extend effective protection calculations;
(b) develop recommendations on reducing the band between products receiving
extremely high and negative rates of effective protection; and (c) train coun-
terpart staff. The Development Credit Agreement contains a covenant that GOSL
would develop a phased action program for tariff reform based on findings of
the Effective Protection Study, by June 30, 1984; and begin implementation of
the first phase by September 30, 1984.
3.09    Industrial Incentives.  The project would provide 12 man-months of
consultancy services to MOFP to analyze absolute and relative incentives
provided on industrial investment and exports. Under the study, biases which
may be embodied in incentives available to tourism, transport, and import trade
relative to industrial investment would be examined; any resultant effects on
the flow of investments would be determined; and modifications in the incentive
structure would be recommended. Also, the study would examine the appropriate-
ness of existing export incentives, including cash payments, incentives avail-
able to GCEC and FIAC enterprises, and fiscal measures. The consultant would
be expected to recommend changes needed to increase investment and value-added
of efficient industrial enterprises.
D. Components, Costs, and Financing Plan
3.10    Project costs would total about US$44.0 million equivalent, of which
IDA financing would represent SDR 23.1 million (US$25 million), with US$23.0
million for eligible subloans by NDB and DFCC and US$2.0 million for the tech-
nical assistance. During FY83-86, price contingencies of 8%, 7.5% and 6% for
foreign costs and 15%, 13%, 12% and 10% for local costs are assumed. IDA
financing would cover 100% of the foreign exchange costs of imported machinery
and equipment, net of duties and taxes estimated at about US$3.5 million equiv-
alent. Foreign exchange is expected to represent about 55% of costs of sub-
projects financed. NDB and DFCC would provide about 15% or Rs 138 million
(US$6 million) for local currency portions; and sponsors' equity is expected to
constitute about 30% or US$12.4 million equivalent. Under the technical serv-
ice component, the US$2.0 million would cover costs of advisors and foreign
training to: (a) continue to build term lending capabilities of the develop-
ment banks and other members of the consortium; (b) improve efficiency of
public enterprises; and (c) analyze industrial and export incentives and make
needed changes in the tariff structure. Technical assistance cost estimates
(Annex 4) include about 298 man-months of consultants and advisory services, of
which roughly 250 man-months are expected to be in foreign consultants, at an
average of US$7,000 per man-month, and 48 man-months in local consultancy at an



-12-
average of US$1,000. The project also incorporates about 155 man-months in
foreign training. The following table summarizes estimated project costs and
sources of finance.
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
NDB/DFCC
Commercial
IDA       Banks      GOSL   Sponsors   Total
Subloan Component                  23.0       6.0         -        12.4      41.4
Technical Assistance Component
(i) Public Enterprises
(MISA and MOFP)              1.1        -        0.3         -        1.4
(ii)  NDB and DFCC                 0.4       0.1         -          -        0.5
(iii)  Commercial Banks             0.3                   -         0.1       0.4
(iv) Policy Studies/
Follow-up Work             0.2        -        0.1         -        0.3
Subtotal, Technical Assistance    2.0         0.1        0.4        0.1       2.6
Total                               25.0      6.1        0.4       12.5      44.0 /a
/a   Inclusive of taxes and duties, estimated at US$ 3.5 million.
IV.  THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SRI LANKA
A. Institutional Aspects
Ownership and Resources
4.01    NDB was established in January 1979, 1/ wit'h the principal objectives
of: providing medium and long-term credit to private and public industries;
and mobilizing internal and external resources, including stimulation of capi-
tal markets. NDB is empowered to offer a wide range of financial services,
including: direct lending; refinancing; underwriting and financing equity and
debenture issues; providing guarantees; accepting deposits; and issuing letters
of credit. NDB's authorized share capital is Rs 2 billion (about US$88 mil-
lion), of which Rs 600 million has been paid up. 2/ Although NDB's Act makes
provision for issuing shares to the public, the initial issue was subscribed
fully by GOSL and its agencies: 67% by GOSL, 17% by the Central Bank and 8%
each by People's Bank and the Bank of Ceylon, the two state-owned commercial
banks. On December 31, 1982, NDB's resources totalled Rs 1.9 billion (US$83
1/   Under the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka Act of 1979.
2/ Of this amount, Rs 450 million was in cash and Rs 150 million in promissory
notes of the Government.



-13-
million) with foreign exchange equivalent to Rs 1.0 billion (US$43 million)
accounting for 52% of the total. NDB's foreign currency resources consist of:
(a) US$28 million of an IDA Credit (SMI II) for refinance of small and medium
industrial loans made by the four local commercial banks and DFCC; and (b) US$5
million balance on a loan of US$10 million made by ADB in September 1981.
NDB's domestic currency resources consist of paid-up capital and retained
earnings, which stood at Rs 962 million as of December 31, 1982 (para 4.19).
Board, Management and Staffing
4.02    Board and Management.  While NDB falls under the general supervision of
the Ministry of Finance and Planning, it has operating autonomy under its Board
of Directors. The Board meets regularly to set NDB's overall policies and
approve all direct lending proposals. Mr. C.A. Coorey is Chairman and acts as
Managing Director. 1/ The other five Board members appointed by the Minister
of Finance and Planning, reflect NDB's shareholdings: the Secretary of
Finance; one director from the Central Bank, one from each of the two
state-owned banks; and an additional director from the Ministry of Finance and
Planning. The Act makes provision for a seventh member to represent private
shareholders, yet to be filled.
4.03    Organization and Staffing.  A General Manager supervises NDB's seven
departments: three projects departments, with two for appraisal of direct
assistance and one for refinance operations; and departments for follow-up
finance; administration; and legal and secretarial. With the growth of NDB'S
refinance and direct financing operations, the creation of a second level of
management (Assistant General Managers) plus expansion of project development
and supervision activities is necessary. Management of NDB prepared a Board
paper outlining such managerial and organizational improvements, which was
discussed during negotiations. On March 31, 1983, NDB's staff totalled 185,
including 87 professionals. Staff turnover has been low, due to the oppor-
tunities for promotion in a new, growing institution, and the strong reputation
which NDB has been able to build in its initial years of operation.
4.04    Advisory Assistance and Staff Training.  The SMI Projects have financed
technical assistance to establish sound operations in NDB: a Bank Group staff
member was seconded to NDB for two years as a senior advisor to top management;
SMI II is financing the initial man-months of assistance by a senior develop-
ment banker from India; the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India (ICICI) provided 24 man-months of consultancy in establishing systems and
procedures; and staff training programs were financed. Under the Second SMI
Project, technical assistance is being provided in: follow-up and supervision;
revision of the operating manual; accounting methods; and project appraisal.
The proposed project would fund: a senior advisor (eight man-months) and a
consultant on development bank operations (12 man-months) to assist in
strengthening overall operations and building the second tier of management;
and four man-months to assist in structuring and launching operations of the
equity fund. Short-term training with Asian development banks will be provided
1/   Mr. Coorey has been Secretary, Ministry of Finance, and an Executive
Director of the Asian Development Bank. Mr. Coorey's four-year term is
due to expire in December 1983, and it is expected that the Minister of
Finance and Planning will re-appoint him to a second term.



-14-
for NDB staff members. It is expected that, under future operations, NDB's
technical assistance needs will be limited to new operations or specialized
aspects.
B. Operating Policies, Procedures and Standards
Operating Policies and Strategy
4.05    NDB's Policy Statement, approved by its Board in January 1980, estab-
lishes clear guidelines for direct project financing, refinance activities, and
equity investments. In addition, it specifies prudent financial exposure
limits, including: (a) a maximum exposure of 10% of NDB's own equity in any
single enterprise; (b) total equity investments not to exceed NDB's own equity;
and (c) NDB's equity investment in a single enterprise not to exceed 5% of
NDB's own equity and 25% of the share capital of the enterprise. Other
appropriate financial policies cover collateral, sponsors' contributions and a
debt:equity limit of 8:1. Following discussions with IDA, NDB's management
prepared a draft Strategy Statement for 1982-86, which outlines NDB's objec-
tives, sectoral priorities, major operational plans, and resource mobilization
goals during the period. In February 1983 NDB completed an Operational Plan
for 1983 detailing operational and staffing targets in accord with the Strategy
Statement. During negotiations, minor modifications in the Strategy Statement
were discussed with agreement in substance reached on the revised draft
(Annex 5).   The adoption of the Strategy Statement by NDB's Board would be a
condition of NDB's participation in the project. Any changes in the Strategy
Statement would require prior consultation with IDA and, in the case of the
Policy Statement, IDA's prior approval.
Procedures and Standards
4.06    Appraisal Standards.  In the initial period of NDB's operations, exten-
sive local and foreign training in project appraisal was provided: ICICI
developed a detailed operations manual, and the senior advisor assisted in
strengthening NDB's appraisal standards. As a result, NDB's appraisals are
of good quality, providing adequate coverage of technical, market and financial
aspects. For all projects receiving direct assistance, NDB calculates the
financial rate of retuTn; for subloans of over US$400,000 equivalent, NDB
calculates the economic rate of return and, normally, the domestic resource
cost ratio (DRC). While most projects have substantially higher economic rates
of return (para 4.11), 10% is used as the normal minimum cutoff point.
Appraisals and management review are completed in four to six months which is
satisfactory for large scale projects. NDB is modifying its appraisal format
and procedures to accelerate processing of smaller equipment loans, to become
more competitive with leasing.
4.07    Implementation and Supervision.  In March 1982, NDB created a Supervi-
sion and Follow-up Department. The operations manual includes adequate super-
vision procedures; ICICI is training NDB's six follow-up officers. The depart-
ment is expected to expand to ten officers by December 1983 and 15 officers by
December 1984. This should be adequate for supervision of NDB's direct loans.
NDB's procedures require the follow-up officers to visit all projects in the
direct loans portfolio every six months, with more frequent visits made to
complex or problem projects.



-15-
4.08    Procurement, Legal and Accounting.  NDB's procurement standards are
satisfactory for the proposed project (para 7.06) and conform to the Bank's
recommended practices for development banks. Three competitive quotations are
required for both domestic and foreign procurement, and procurement decisions
are checked for price and technical adequacy of the equipment. Simplified
procurement practices would be adopted for small equipment financing opera-
tions, and for contracts for goods and services of below US$50,000 equivalent.
As part of the consortium arrangements, NDB's legal agreements are being
streamlined and standardized to conform with those of other lenders. NDB's
accounting procedures and standards also are satisfactory and are subject to an
adequate annual audit by the Auditor General, or an auditor acting on his
behalf.
C.   Operating Performance
Characteristics of Past Assistance
4.09    At December 1982, NDB had approved finance totalling Rs 1.1 billion
(US$48 million) for 1,910 projects (net of cancellations). Direct loans to 62
projects accounted for Rs 833 million (US$36 million), or 75% of the total;
refinance of 1,848 SMI projects since January 1980 represented Rs 249 million,
or 23%; and eight equity investments accounted for the remaining Rs 21.2 mil-
lion, or 2%. During the same period, NDB's disbursements totalled Rs 694
million (US$30 million) with 70% against direct loan approvals, 28% in
refinance, and the remaining 2% in equity.
4.10    Direct Lending Operations.  In FY80, NDB's net approvals of direct
loans amounted to Rs 240 million for 17 projects with costs totalling Rs 809
million (Annex 6). In FY81, net approvals amounted to Rs 236 million for 19
projects costing Rs 702 million. In FY82 NDB increased its direct lending
assistance by 55% to Rs 365.2 million for 31 projects; total investment in
these projects amounted to Rs 692 million, of which 53% was financed by NDB,
12% by other institutions, and 35% by sponsors' equity. NDB's assistance to
the public sector, which was almost exclusively to support balancing, modern-
ization and replacement, increased from 20% of the FY81 amount to 33% in FY82.
In FY82, the private sector accounted for 23 projects; the public sector,
seven; and one project was jointly owned. Projects were well distributed by
subsector, with metals, chemicals and engineering accounting for 34% of the
amount of lending, hotels 18%, rubber and leather products 15%, agro-industries
11%, textiles 9%, and miscellaneous 13%. Fourteen loans (45% by number) were
for less than Rs 10 million (US$442,000) and one loan was over Rs 25 million
(US$1.1 million); the majority were in the Rs 10 to 25 million range. Of the
31 projects, 17 were for new enterprises and 14 involved balancing, modern-
ization, rehabilitation or expansion (BMRE). About 44% of total approvals were
for projects located outside the Colombo area.
4.11    The weighted ex-ante average financial rate of return of projects
approved for direct loans since 1980 is 18% with a range of 11% to 46%.
Estimated ERRs of 14 larger projects range from 18% to 50%, with a weighted
average of 32%. These investments are expected to earn or save about US$33
million in foreign exchange annually and are expected to create some 4,700
jobs; average fixed asset costs per job are about US$23,000.  This ratio
reflects NDB's concentration in hotels, some capital intensive investments in



-16-
the public sector (e.g. Ceylon Oxygen), and the relatively high proportion of
BMRE lending in NDB's portfolio.
4.12    Refinance Operations.  Under SMI I, NDB approved refinance for 1,547
subloans (net of cancellations) amounting to Rs 255 million. Of this amount,
Rs 194 million had been disbursed and Rs 54 million repaid, leaving an out-
standing portfolio of Rs 140 million.  Arrears have been low with about 70% of
amounts falling due having been repaid. Most SMI loans have been for food
processing, construction materials, wood products, and engineering firms. The
average subloan size is Rs 167,000 (US$7,260). An estimated 17,000 jobs have
been created, at a fixed capital cost of about US$1,100 per job. The Second
SMI Project provides a further US$28 million in refinance, and as of March 31,
1983, 165 subprojects had been refinanced by NDB.
4.13    Equity Investments.  NDB has invested Rs 10.3 millicn in ordinary
shares of five of its clients. It also has underwritten the ordinary share
issues of two companies to a value of Rs 6 million. In addition, NDB has
invested Rs 3 million in preference shares of a rubber based manufacturing
company client. The proportion of NDB's resources invested in equities is
expected to increase (para 3.05).
Other Developmental Activities
4.14    Objectives and Focus.  In addition to its normal financing operations,
NDB's activities include: stimulating the capital market through development
of an equity fund; taking the lead in development of consortium arrangements;
preparing detailed subsector analyses; identifying and actively promoting new
projects; and undertaking relevant economic analysis and industrial studies.
4.15    Subsector Analysis and Project Development.  NDB has given inadequate
attention to subsector analysis, project promotion and business development.
Under the project, NDB would establish a Project Identification and Business
Development Unit to conduct subsector studies aimed at identifying oppor-
tunities for investment, promote suitable projects and entrepreneurs, and
undertake market potential studies. The IDP would provide 12 man-months of
consultancy by a person experienced in project and business development, and
subsector analysis. In addition to these direct efforts by the new Unit, NDB
would emphasize: the development of close ties at a senior management level
with existing businessmen; appropriate publicity to advertise NDB's facilities;
close coordination with established investment promotion bodies, including
FIAC, EDB and LIAC; business development with existing and potential clients;
and investments for energy efficiency. During negotiations, the functions and
staffing of the Project Identification and Promotion Unit were agreed, as well
as the terms of reference for the Project Promotion Advisor (Annex 7). Estab-
lishment of the Unit, with adequate initial staffing, would be a condition of
NDB's participation in the project; at a minimum, a Unit head and two officers
with experience in project and business promotion and subsector analysis would
be needed.
4.16    Project Development Facility (PDF).  NDB has a PDF of US$750,000, of
which US$500,000 is financed by UNDP under an IDA executed TA program and
US$250,000 equivalent in Rupees has been contributed by NDB. The facility is
designed to provide consultancy on feasibility studies, the costs of which are
recoverable in project implementation, or written off if the study fails to
result in a project. Utilization of the PDF, established in October 1980 with



-17-
UNDP financing has been slow. By December 31, 1982, a total of US$110,000 had
been committed: US$25,000 for the preparation of eight project profiles and
US$85,000 for five project feasibility studies and one rehabilitation study.
Five additional studies are under discussion and are likely to be included
under the PDF, which would commit about an additional US$200,000.
D. Financial Aspects
Portfolio
4.17    Quality.  As of December 31, 1982 NDB loan portfolio stood at Rs 612.2
million (US$27 million), of which 75% was in direct loans. Of the 62 projects
approved for direct lending, only three were in arrears of principal and inter-
est payments, amounting to Rs 16.6 million or 3.6% of the portfolio. Thus,
NDB's arrears situation is satisfactory. The quality of NDB's portfolio should
be monitored closely to avoid a build-up of arrears. On SMI operations, for
which arrears also are low, the commercial banks bear credit risks. The
quality of the equity portfolio is satisfactory; two of the six companies have
declared dividends, while the other four projects are still under construction.
Financial Performance
4.18    Profitability.  In FY81, NDB's gross income was Rs 120 million
(Annex 8), of which 28% was from interest on project lending, 71% from term
deposits and 1% miscellaneous. 1/ In FY82, gross income was Rs 154.2 million
of which nearly 50% was in interest on project lending. The ratio of income
from direct operations is expected to increase to about 75% in FY84 as disbur-
sements increase. NDB's administrative costs, amounted to 2.1% and 1.7% of
portfolio assets in FY81 and FY82 respectively. After deduction of administra-
tive costs, interest and other expenses, and making provisions for doubtful
debts, NDB showed substantial net profits of Rs 105 million in FY81 and Rs 125
million in FY82. 2/ As NDB is exempt from taxation for the first ten years of
operations, and no dividend has yet been declared, reserves and retained earn-
ings have contributed substantially to NDB's total resources; retained earnings
stood at Rs 12.1 million on December 31, 1982, and general and special reserves
were Rs 350 million, after annual appropriations from the profit and loss
account.
4.19    Capital Structure.  At December 31, 1982, NDB's shareholders' equity
totalled at Rs 962 million, of which Rs 362 million, or 38% represents reserves
and retained earnings (Annex 8). NDB's total borrowings at that date amounted
to Rs 283 million, resulting in a debt:equity ratio of 1:3.4. As a result of
NDB's substantial equity, returns to equity from direct lending operations in
its initial years of operation have been low, around 8%. However, total
return, including income on term deposits, is about 13%, which is satisfactory.
1/ Primarily commitment fees, syndication fees and other project related
charges.
2/ Excluding provisions for bad debts of Rs 10.8 million in FY81 and Rs 11
million in FY82, or 2.6% of the direct lending portfolio.



-18-
Operational Forecasts
4.20    Operations and Pipeline.  NDB's operational forecast (Annex 6) is based
on relatively conservative assumptions. Direct lending and equity approvals
are expected to maintain the same level in FY83 as in FY82 (about Rs 370 mil-
lion), to grow by 15% to Rs 434 million in FY84; and thereafter increase by
between 11% and 15% p.a. Foreign exchange commitments are estimated to be
about US$7.0 million in FY83, US$8.0 million in FY84, US$9.2 million in FY85,
and US$10.4 million in FY86, with foreign exchange commitments of about US$35
million during the project period. NDB's pipeline as of March 31, 1983 con-
sisted of 26 projects in various stages of appraisal, with total foreign
exchange requirements of about Rs 500 million (US$22 million). NDB's foreign
exchange commitments in those subprojects likely to be financed are projected
to be roughly Rs 345 million (US$15 million). While pipelines might represent
no more than 50% of ultimate lending over a project period, NDB's current
pipeline indicates a firm basis for the proposed credit amount. As of March
31, 1983, NDB had uncommitted foreign exchange of US$5.0 million, 1/ which is
expected to be fully utilized by October 1983. Domestic currency requirements
for direct lending, any other refinance schemes and equity investments will be
met from NDB's own domestic resources.
4.21    Of the 26 projects in NDB's pipeline, only one is for a new public
sector enterprise (a caustic soda project as a joint venture involving three
public sector corporations, for which NDB is considering a loan of about Rs 40
million (US$1.7 million); five projects involve BMR for existing public
enterprises, amounting to US$7 million of foreign exchange requirements, or 32%
of NDB's foreign pipeline. The remaining 20 projects are in the private sec-
tor. Thus, the pipeline reflects NDB's strategy to concentrate on the private
sector and to restrict its public sector lending largely to corporations posi-
tioned to make viable balancing and modernization investments. The proposed
technical assistance component for improving public sector efficiency (Chap-
ter VI) has direct linkages to NDB's investment strategy. The subsector dis-
tribution of projects in the pipeline is similar to NDB's past investments
(para 4.10) with less emphasis on textile investments due to the difficulties
of some of the larger spinning and weaving mills, and greater emphasis on
agro-industries (projects for sea food processing, vegetable oils, sugar and
fruit canning). With interest rate rationalization (para 2.13), NDB will be
involved in financing a greater proportion of export-oriented projects utiliz-
ing IDA funds.
1/ The ADB loan of US$10 million less US$5 million in committed subprojects,
based on authorizations by ADB. The ADB loan moved more slowly than
expected since: ADB questioned the viability of a few projects; procure-
ment problems arose as the country of origin was not an ADB member; the ADB
line of credit excluded tourism; and the subsidized rate for export
projects under the Central Bank refinance scheme limited ADB's subloans
mainly to import-substitution projects.



-19-
4.22    Financial Projections.  NDB's financial projections are provided in
Annexes 8 and 9.  Net profits are projected to increase from Rs 125 million in
FY82 to Rs 206 million in FY86, an annual increase of 13%.  Average returns on
equity are expected to be between 14% and 16%.  As disbursements on direct
operations increase from their FY82 level of Rs 213 million (US$9.3 million) to
Rs 510 million (US$22 million) in FY86, interest on project lending as a
percentage of total income is expected to increase from 45% to 95%.  In
FY83/84, NDB expects to invest Rs 100 million in the equity fund.  Total assets
(excluding SMI operations) are expected to grow from Rs 1.3 billion in FY82 to
Rs 3.2 billion in FY86, an annual growth rate of about 25%. During the period,
NDB expects to expand its borrowings from the FY82 level of Rs 76 million
(US$7.9 million) to Rs 900 million (US$40 million) in FY86. The expected high
retention of profits is forecast to increase shareholders' equity from Rs 962
million (US$42 million) in FY82 to Rs 1.6 billion (US$70 million) in FY86,
resulting in a low debt:equity ratio of around 1:1 in FY86. NDB's debt-service
coverage ratio (DSCR) is expected to be above 2.0, which is satisfactory.
V.   THE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON (DFCC)
A.   Institutional Aspects
Ownership and Resources
5.01    DFCC was established in 1955 by an Act of Parliament 1/ to finance
private enterprises involved in industry, agriculture, commerce, hotels, tran-
sportation, and construction; the Bank's first loan to DFCC was made in 1967.
DFCC's Rupee resources consist of authorized share capital of Rs 300 million,
of which Rs 100 million is paid-up, and an interest free loan of Rs 16 million
from GOSL. In two "rights issues" offered during March/April 1983, DFCC suc-
cessfully raised Rs 70 million. The improved profitability of DFCC's opera-
tions in recent years, and the fact that one-third of dividends on DFCC shares
are tax free, contributed to the high demand for the shares. After the share
capital increases, the private sector held 56% while government-owned banks
(Bank of Ceylon and People's Bank) owned 44%; IFC (9.9%), FMO (12.5%), 2/ DEG
(10%), 3/ and foreign commercial banks (3%) held 35% of DFCC's share capital.
Sri Lankan private sector shareholders (21%) consist of companies and
individuals; most of the 500 private shareholders own less than 500 shares
each, illustrating DFCC's broad-based ownership. DFCC's shareholding by the
two main commercial banks will help DFCC develop joint working capital and term
funding arrangements (para 5.21). The enlarged share capital should provide
DFCC with adequate financial flexibility in the medium term.
1/ In November 1982 Parliament passed an amendment to DFCC's Act which made
several changes in the authorized share capital, dividend payout ceilings,
and composition of the Board of Directors.
2/ Nederlandse Financierings Maatschappij voor Ontwikkelingstanden NV (the
Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries).
3/ Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit (German
Corporation for Economic Cooperation).



-20-
5.02     IBRD loans of US$4 million and US$8 million in the 1960s, IDA credits
of US$4.5 million and US$8 million in 1975 and 1977, and loans from ADB for
US$5 million and US$10 million in 1976 and 1980, respectively, have comprised
the majority of DFCC's foreign exchange resources. In 1982, FMO approved a
loan of 8 million guilders (US$3.0 million) for DFCC's operations. Rupee loan
resources have been provided by Central Bank refinance, the Bank of Ceylon and
the National Savings Bank.
Board, Management and Staffing
5.03    Board and Management.  DFCC's revised Act provides for an eleven member
Board of Directors: six members elected by the shareholders; two appointed by
the Government; two representing foreign investors (IFC and FMO/DEG); and the
General Manager as an ex-officio member. Two of the positions to be elected by
shareholders are vacant as a result of resignations by directors who had served
in excess of the newly stipulated maximum of eight years; these members will be
elected once the composition of shareholdings as a result of recent share
issues is finalized. In December 1981 the Board approved the creation of an
Executive Committee consisting of the Chairman, General Manager and three Board
members to discuss administrative issues on a semi-monthly basis. The full
Board meets monthly, with meetings proceeding smoothly under the new Chairman,
Mr. B. Mahadeva, appointed in December 1982. 1/ The General Manager (GM),
formerly Deputy General Manager in Bank of Ceylon, also has made a positive
impact on the organization during his first two years of office. The Board has
delegated approval of projects up to Rs 2 million to the GM.
5.04    Organization and Staffing.  DFCC's organizational structure consists of
six departments. In December 1981, to reduce the supervisory load on the
General Manager, the Board approved the appointment of Assistant General
Managers for Operations, Administration, and Consultancy/Merchant Banking. At
March 31, 1983, DFCC had 108 staff, including 39 professionals. DFCC's
salaries are reasonably competitive with NDB, but not with the foreign banks
and private industry. The quality of DFCC staff remains good and management
continues to place an appropriate emphasis on training; in 1982, eight officers
were sent on courses abroad, and seven officers attended local training semi-
nars. DFCC also organised a management seminar with external consultants,
mainly to train DFCC staff. Under the proposed project, 24 man-months of
short-term training would be provided at Asian development banks and regional
institutes.
B. Operating Policies, Procedures and Standards
Policies and Strategy
5.05    DFCC's Statement of Policies provides a satisfactory framework for its
assisting private sector manufacturing projects. It also establishes exposure
limits: (a) total exposure in a single enterprise is limited to 20% of its own
equity; (b) individual share investments are limited to 10% of its own equity
1/ Mr. Mahadeva is Director-General of Planning in the Ministry of Finance.



-21-
and 25% of the share capital of the enterprise; and (c) the aggregate of ordi-
nary share investments is limited to the amount of its own equity. In the
past, these limits, particularly the total exposure limit of 20%, hampered
DFCC's operations, restricting its maximum loan size to less than US$750,000
equivalent. However, the recent increases in DFCC's share capital have
increased its maximum exposure in a single project to about Rs 40 million
(US$1.8 million). The Policy Statement also requires DFCC to maintain its
debt:equity ratio at 7:1. 1/ To supplement the Policy Statement, DFCC's
management prepared a draft Strategy Statement for the period 1982 to 1986
(Annex 10). This statement outlines DFCC's priorities and confirms its primary
focus on project financing. Although the statement also refers to other
activities including leasing, underwriting, and merchant banking functions,
DFCC's management has decided that DFCC will continue to focus on project
lending, due to staff and resource constraints, and the competitive edge which
other financing institutions have in providing these services. Emphasis will
be given to identifying and financing export-oriented projects and to develop-
ing new subsectors, particularly agro-based industries, rubber products and
light engineering. Import-substitution projects will be eligible, provided
that the projects are efficient and not dependent upon heavy protection.
During negotiations, the draft Strategy Statement was discussed and agreed.
Adoption of the Strategy Statement by DFCC's Board would be a condition of
DFCC's participation in the project. Any changes to the Policy Statement would
require IDA's prior approval; changes to the Strategy Statement would require
prior consultation with IDA.
Procedures and Standards
5.06    Appraisals.  DFCC's appraisals are of good quality; the Bank's past
suggestions for improvements have been adopted, noteably in the area of
economic evaluation. The draft Strategy Statement specifies that DFCC staff
will calculate the economic rate of return for all projects involving foreign
exchange subloans of more than US$250,000 equivalent, and as with NDB, a 10%
minimum limit is prescribed. 2/ The domestic resource cost (DRC) per unit of
foreign exchange earned or saved also would be calculated for these sub-
projects.
5.07    Promotion.  Since DFCC is now in competition with other financial
institutions, it needs to become more active in business and project promotion.
DFCC should liaise with FIAC, LIAC and individual entrepreneurs to ascertain
which projects are being developed. A project promotion unit, with staff
experienced in subsector analysis and business development, would enable DFCC
to identify suitable projects and entrepreneurs. The AGM, Operations, would
oversee the work of the Promotion Department, given the close links needed with
appraisal staff. The functions and staffing of the proposed promotion unit
were agreed in substance at negotiations; establishment and adequate staffing
of the unit would be a condition of DFCC's participation in the proposed
1/ Until recently DFCC was at its debt/equity limit. The recent share capital
issues have decreased the ratio to 4.9:1, which should provide DFCC with
sufficient flexibility to raise additional loans in the future.
2/ DFCC is reviewing the Bank's guidelines for calculation of economic rates
of return and will confirm to IDA the appropriateness of this limit.



-22-
project; minimum initial staffing would be one experienced senior officer and a
junior professional.
5.08    Advisory Assistance.  To assist DFCC in its promotion efforts, the
proposed project includes 18 man-months of technical assistance which would
consist of three short assignments (about four months each) from advisors
specialized in the economic, technical and business development aspects of
light engineering, rubber products and agro-based industries; draft terms of
reference were agreed. The remaining six man-months would be used for assis-
tance in specific areas arising from DFCC's strategy reviews during the project
period. One key area would be in formalizing collaboration arrangements with
commercial banks. The advisor would be experienced in operations of develop-
ment and commercial banks, and in joint financing techniques.
5.09    Project Implementation.  DFCC's supervision procedures are
satisfactory. The Project Implementation Department consists of disbursements
and follow-up sections. During FY82, the follow-up section handled a portfolio
of 195 projects, excluding the SMI projects handled by the SMI Department. The
section officers make quarterly visits to projects under construction; problem
projects are visited more frequently, and projects in operation are visited at
least once a year. A problem projects cell was created within the follow-up
section to focus attention on companies in arrears (para 5.20). The follow-up
section has eight officers each handling an average of 25 projects during FY82.
DFCC needs to recruit about three additional officers to handle the increased
size of its portfolio and to visit problem projects more frequently. DFCC's
follow-up reports are generally good.
5.10    Procurement, Legal and Accounting.  DFCC's procurement standards are
satisfactory. For foreign exchange subloans, at least three quotations from
foreign suppliers are required, which are reviewed by DFCC's engineers and the
consultancy unit. For local currency loans, DFCC requires the sponsor to
obtain three alternative quotations wherever possible. With the increased
interest in Sri Lanka by foreign suppliers in recent years, DFCC is able to
ensure greater responsiveness to bid offers. For small equipment subloans,
DFCC will ensure that machinery procured is competitive in price and quality,
but three quotations would not be required if the contract does not exceed
Rs 1.2 million (US$50,000). DFCC's legal procedures and accounting statements
are satisfactory.
C. Operating Performance
5.11    Operations.  DFCC has assisted about 500 companies with disbursements
totalling Rs 535 million. About 85% has been in loans and 15% has comprised
equity investments consisting of ordinary and redeemable preference shares.
For the first 20 years of its existence, DFCC's experienced slow growth, and
its impact on industrial development was small. Since 1977, DFCC's operations
increased significantly, but still fluctuate excessively (Annex 11). In FY79,
total net approvals reached Rs 124 million, up from Rs 72 million in FY78,
while in FY80 net approvals declined to Rs 49 million, largely due to manage-
ment problems in DFCC and cancellations of import-substitution projects which
had become unviable under the liberalized import regime. In FY81, DFCC's net
approvals almost quadrupled to Rs 183 million, and in FY82, increased to Rs 211
million. However, in FY83, net approvals fell to Rs 49 million. Commitments
show a similar pattern, while disbursements have increased steadily: Rs 71



-23-
million in FY79, Rs 95 million in FY80, Rs 118 million in FY81, Rs 163 million
in FY82 and Rs 148 million in FY83. DFCC's management has instituted measures
to restore activity to the FY82 level (para 5.07).
Characteristics of Past Assistance
5.12    Subsector and Area Distribution.  DFCC's financing of tourism projects
increased in FY79-82, accounting for 10%, 21%, 35% and 47% of approvals in
those years. Since April 1982, DFCC has refused all applications for hotel
projects and by December 31, 1982 the tourism sector accounted for 28% of
DFCC's portfolio, down from 32% in the previous year. Chemical products were
the second largest subsector (14%), followed by textiles and ready-made gar-
ments (9%), rubber products (8%), light engineering (4%), and food processing
(4%). DFCC's projects continue to be concentrated in the western region,
particularly in and around Colombo, where most medium-scale manufacturing
opportunities exist; hotel projects are more dispersed in the south and central
regions. The average size of DFCC's loans and investments rose from Rs 1.3
million in FY79 to Rs 2.3 million in FY82, due to inflation and to fewer equity
investments.
Development Impact
5.13    Foreign exchange costs of manufacturing projects approved by DFCC
during FY79-FY82 amounted to Rs 573 million (US$25 million), or 54% of total
costs. DFCC assistance totalled Rs 232 million (US$10 million) with the
remainder from NDB, commercial banks, equity contributions and suppliers'
credits. Of the 201 manufacturing projects financed in this period, 71 were
small-scale and 130 were medium and larger-scale; 108 new projects created
employment of some 8,210 jobs at an average investment cost of US$5,380; the
remaining 93 projects were for balancing, modernization and replacement. The
foreign exchange earned or saved by a sample of 36 of these projects is about
Rs 270 million (US$11.8 million per annum). An analysis of a random sample of
25 of DFCC's 44 hotel projects indicates an average investment cost per job of
Rs 302,900 (US$13,200). About 30% of the projects were new enterprises, 54%
were expansion, and 10% were BMR. The remaining 9% financed cost overruns and
for shortfalls in financing plans. The ex-ante financial rates of return for
the new projects approved in FY82 ranged from 12% to 48%, with a weighted
average return of 19%; the internal economic rates of return (on a sample of
four subprojects) ranged from 15% to 47%, with a weighted average of 29%. The
domestic resource cost (DRC) estimates ranged from Rs 8.90 to Rs 18.60 (below
the exchange rate at the time), indicating that most projects were economically
attractive. Annex 12 is a synopsis of the 15 projects above the free limit
("A" projects) financed under IDA Credit 742-CE. The economic indicators show
financially and economically viable projects; ex-post economic returns for the
15 "A" subprojects show a range of 12% to 40%, with a weighted average of 22%.
D. Financial Aspects
Portfolio
5.14    Loan Quality.  DFCC's loan portfolio was Rs 497.5 million as of
December 31, 1982. The quality of this portfolio remains good, although DFCC's
arrears have increased in recent years. As of December 31, 1982, arrears of
principal and interest amounted to Rs 45.4 million or 9.1% of the outstanding



-24-
portfolio compared to 1.8% in June 1979. About 5% of the portfolio in arrears
is in companies operating at a loss or in serious technical difficulties,
compared to only 0.8% in 1979. During FY79-82, collections as a percent of
total dues (overdues plus amounts falling due) fell from 80% in FY79 to 64% in
FY82. DFCC's management has taken the following measures to correct the
arrears situation: monthly status reports are prepared for all loans in
arrears and equity investments which are late in dividend payments; project
implementation officers visit problem projects two or three times in a
six-month period; legal actions are issued more promptly although progress in
the courts is slow; and more realistic evaluations are made regarding the need
for reschedulings, which amounted to about 3% of DFCC's loan portfolio in FY82.
About 75% of DFCC's arrears are concentrated in three subsectors (ready-made
garments, hotels and chemical firms), and in a relatively few companies,
indicating that intensive supervision efforts on these companies should remedy
most of DFCC's arrears problem.
5.15    Equity Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1982, DFCC's investment portfolio
amounted to Rs 59.1 million (about 12% of its loan portfolio) in 88 companies.
In FY82, the average dividend yield on the equity portfolio was 8.8% compared
to 5.4% in FY80. However, 19 of the 31 companies in which DFCC held ordinary
shares did not declare dividends in FY82 while 24 of the redeemable preference
shares were late in dividend declaration. The real value of DFCC's ordinary
share portfolio is difficult to assess, due to the lack of active trading in
many of the ordinary shares, while preference shares are not quoted on the
equity market. However, if the shares were liquidated, DFCC should make
reasonable capital gains on most issues. DFCC intends to continue to make
share investments financed from its own resources and from cash generated by
selling matured investments.
5.16    Provisions.  DFCC's provisions for doubtful loans amounted to Rs 8.7
million or 2.1% of its loan portfolio as of December 31, 1982; provisions for
doubtful share investments amounted to Rs 1.2 million or 2% of the equity
portfolio at that date. Although the provisions appear low, the real risk of
losses arising from bad debts is slight, considering DFCC's liens on the fixed
assets of its clients. However, with its increase in profitability, DFCC will
be in a position to make larger provisions for doubtful debts.
Financial Performance
5.17    Profitability.  DFCC's income statements for FY79-82 (Annex 13) indi-
cate that profit before tax increased from Rs 6.9 million in FY79 to Rs 26.5
million in FY82, primarily as a result of DFCC's increased lending volume. A
corporate tax rate of 44% (before investment relief and other deductions) left
DFCC with after tax income of Rs 18.3 million in FY82, of which Rs 2.9 million
was allocated to dividends, Rs 3.8 million to special reserves 1/ and Rs 11.4
million to general reserves. The dividend rate was 12%. DFCC's administrative
costs amounted to 1.7% of total assets in FY82, up from 1.4% in FY79, due to
higher supervision coefficients of recent years and increased rental costs for
DFCC's offices. Return on equity was 31.5% in FY82 compared to 27.8% in FY81,
1/  DFCC's Act requires that at least 20% of annual profits be set aside as
special reserves and invested in fixed deposits as long as the subordinated
GOSL loan is outstanding.



-25-
the high percentages reflecting DFCC's small capital base until recently. The
debt-service coverage ratio (DSCR) was 1.2:1 in FY82, which is satisfactory.
The cash flow statement is shown in Annex 14.
5.18    Capital Structure.  DFCC's balance sheets for FY79-82 are shown in
Annex 15. Total assets grew from Rs 223.9 million in FY79 to Rs 534.0 million
in FY81, at a rate of 34% per annum. Shareholders' equity stood at Rs 66.3
million, of which retained earnings and reserves accounted for 64% and share
capital, 36%. DFCC's debt-equity ratio stood at 6.7:1 on December 31, 1982,
within the existing 7:1 limit. Under the proposed project, this limit would be
maintained.
Operational Forecasts
5.19    Lending Activity.  Forecasts of DFCC's lending activity are more dif-
ficult than for NDB due to erratic fluctuations in the level of DFCC's opera-
tions in recent years. Projections reflect growth of: 20% in net approvals in
FY84 (still less than one-third of the FY82 level); 30% in FY85; and 10% in
later years. With these assumptions, net loan approvals are expected to reach
only Rs 109 million in FY86. About 60% of DFCC's commitments are expected to
be for foreign exchange subloans and 40% for Rupee loans. During the period
July 1983 to June 1986, DFCC's foreign exchange commitments are expected to
total about Rs 250 million (US$11 million). Due to low returns, further
investments in redeemable preference shares are not assumed; a small proportion
of ordinary share investments are expected out of DFCC's Rupee resources and
the FMO line of credit, which was approved in 1982.
5.20    Pipeline.  DFCC's pipeline of projects as of March 31, 1983 consists of
22 manufacturing projects requiring US$4.4 million in foreign exchange, with
total costs of about US$7.0 million. Manufacturing projects show diversifica-
tion with increased shares in: plastic products (19% of the pipeline); con-
struction materials comprising 24%; rubber products, 16%; food processing, 15%;
printing and packaging materials, 15%; and chemical products, 10%. The
expected employment generation of the new projects is estimated to be about
1,100 jobs at a cost per job of US$7,500. This is higher than the average for
DFCC's past projects due to inflation and the reduced number of SMI projects in
DFCC's pipeline.
5.21    Resources.  By March 1984, DFCC is expected to have fully utilized its
US$10 million loan from ADB. Its only other source of foreign exchange con-
sists of a loan from FMO for US$3.2 million equivalent, of which US$0.4 million
can be used for equity investments. The proposed credit would provide the
majority of DFCC's foreign exchange resources over the next three years.
DFCC's Rupee resources will be met by Central Bank refinance funds and by share
capital. A means of solving DFCC's Rupee resource problems could be a merger
with one of the smaller commercial banks (i.e., Hatton National Bank or Commer-
cial Bank of Ceylon) or a collaborative arrangement with the larger state-owned
Peoples Bank or Bank of Ceylon. DFCC has opted for the latter course,
manifested by the changes in its capital structure and arrangements to assist
BOC and People's Bank in project appraisal and joint financing.
5.22    Financial Projections.  Annexes 13-15 show DFCC's projected income
statement, cash flow and balance sheets for FY82-FY86. As a result of its
increased volume of lending, DFCC's profits before tax are expected to grow
from Rs 26.5 million in FY81 to Rs 43.9 in FY86, an annual rate of 23%. After



-26-
allowing for corporate taxes of 44% and investment tax relief of about 15%
(primarily on DFCC's investment shares), net income before tax is projected to
grow from Rs 26.5 million in FY82 to Rs 43.9 million in FY86. However, in
FY83, net income after tax is projected to be only Rs 12 million, down from
Rs 18.3 million in FY82, as a result of the low lending level during the past
year and increased tax liability for FY83. The cash flow projections assume a
constant dividend rate of 12%. DFCC's average return on equity is expected to
decline from 31% in FY82 to 14% in FY83 as a result of the share capital
increase and the drop in net income in FY83. Return on equity is projected to
be between 16% and 21% in the FY84-87 period. The debt:equity ratio is
expected to decrease from 6.7:1 in FY82 to 4.9 in FY83 and 3.2 in FY87.
VI. IMPROVING EFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
A. Characteristics and Role
6.01    Share and Performance.  In 1981, the state industrial corporations,
excluding the petroleum refinery, accounted for about 40% of industrial output
and employment. The 7% return on capital employed in production, down from
about 20% in 1979 and 1980, is particularly alarming since assets are under-
valued, at historical, depreciated costs. Annex 16 provides performance data
and key ratios for the state industrial corporations operating under MISA.
Most corporations are engaged in import-substitution activities. 1/ Several of
these firms, which had operated under excessive protection, as virtual monopo-
lies, with preferential access to inputs under the previous Government, have
suffered under the liberalized trade and industrial policies operating since
1977. The UNP Government has approached the problem of public enterprises by:
(a) reducing budgetary transfers, hoping that the corporations would be forced
to take measures to respond to increased competition; (b) improving monitoring
in an attempt to increase performance accountability; and (c) introducing some
measures to increase private participation in ownership and management of
public enterprises.
B. Policy Measures and Government Links
6.02    Investment Policy.  The present Government's policy toward public
enterprises has been characterized by specific actions to "turn off the tap."
Data supplied by MISA indicates that from 1979, budgetary provisions for MISA
and related state industrial enterprises have been reduced markedly. 2/ The
1/  In 1981, the Petroleum Corporation, which imports petroleum and re-exports
bi-products of its refining operations, accounted for over 90% of the
Rs 2.6 billion of exports by state industrial corporations.
2/  The 1983 budget for MISA corporations and departments is Rs 72.4 million
compared to provisions of Rs 104.3 million in 1982, Rs 126.2 million in
1981, Rs 741.7 million for 1980, and Rs 1,154.3 million for 1979. The
source of these figures is MISA's summary document on "Performance of
Public Sector Corporations under the Ministry of Industries and Scientific
Affairs, 1982". Central Bank figures on budgetary transfers to all public
sector corporations indicate other levels and trends, but disaggregations
are not yet available.



-27-
1983 budget for corporations and departments under MISA is Rs 72.4 million, or
6% of budgetary provisions in 1979. The main reductions have been in capital
expenditures by GOSL for the state corporations, which have fallen from
Rs 663.8 million in 1979 to Rs 21.9 million (US$960,000) budgeted for 1983,
of which about Rs 18 million was for capital expenditures for bodies providing
services to private industry, e.g., the Industrial Development Board and Bureau
of Ceylon Standards. All other capital investments in public sector corpora-
tions, mainly for balancing and modernization, are expected to be met from
internal reserves, bank loans, or suppliers' credits. However, other measures
taken by the Ministry of Finance have dampened prospects for self- and
bank-financed investments. During 1981, GOSL instituted a policy requiring the
corporations to pay the Treasury an amount equivalent to 10% of the total
capital employed prior to making any new investments, regardless of funding
sources, size of investments, or profitability of the corporation. If the
requirements were rigidly enforced, payment of Treasury "dividends" would leave
the enterprises with little or no equity for investment projects; in most
cases, this would cause liquidity squeezes affecting availability of needed
working capital, which could have a major impact on efficiency, capacity
utilization and profitability. 1/ This provision also applies to corporations
investing in new joint venture companies with foreign or local private part-
ners; thus, GOSL's objective of increasing private involvement in public
enterprises has been undermined. While the Treasury should seek dividends on
its substantial past investments in public enterprises, dividends should be
related to profitability and should make allowances for investments needed to
improve performance. During negotiations, this policy was discussed, to ensure
that the policy is not enforced in the case of sound BMR investments and when
viable joint ventures are proposed.
6.03    While no overall policy on expanding the private sector's role in
public enterprise has been established yet, various initiatives have been
taken: (a) joint ventures with foreign partners have been established; (b)
private management contracts have been instituted with foreign firms for five
of the textile mills, with positive results; and the Tyre Corporation has a
technical contract with Goodrich for manufacturing radial and other tyres; and
(c) private limited or public companies have been the preferred forms for new
public enterprise activity, e.g., expending cement and ceramic tableware
capacity, a joint venture for footwear exports, and revamping the Colombo
Dockyard. With each of these forms, management autonomy in operating the
enterprises has increased, although retention of some government controls is
likely to limit potential productivity gains from private management contracts.
In the case of joint ventures and other public companies, the changes in owner-
ship eliminate controls over operations of public corporations, at least as
long as the venture is succeeding. With the management contracts in textiles,
regular tendering procedures for cotton purchases have been replaced by pur-
chases on the spot market, requiring only verbal approval from the Secretary,
Ministry of Textile Industries. Over 1000 nonproductive employees have been
terminated, with six months to a year of wage equivalents in severance pay.
6.04    Relevant Legislation.  While these cases should have useful demonstra-
tion effects, they have occurred on an ad hoc, exceptional basis, and changes
1/ In fact, most corporations have negotiated lower payments to the
Consolidated Fund.



-28-
in ownership structure have occurred only in the case of new enterprises. The
Industrial Corporations Act specifies that only the Treasury may hold shares,
and gives the Government broad, discretionary authority over the operations of
the corporations. The Ministry of Finance is considering alternative legisla-
tive proposals to increase autonomy and improve performance of public
enterprises. These include: (a) a new corporate law for all public
enterprises, which could: incorporate increased management autonomy and
facilitate more efficient enforcement of profitability norms; (b) legislation
to provide for progressive moves from corporation status to the company form;
and (c) a case-by-case approach by which enabling legislation could repeal the
existing statute which constituted the corporation and transfer all assets and
obligations to a new company. The proposed project would include technical
assistance to the Ministry of Finance in: drafting appropriate legislation and
determining criteria for selecting the initial corporations which would be
transformed into companies. This legislation would cover corporations as well
as government-owned business undertakings (GOBUs), which are nationalized
enterprises which have retained loosely defined features of private industrial
operations. Recently, a decision has been taken to convert GOBUs into either
public sector corporations or public companies, as GOBUs have no legal status.
The preference by MISA and MOFP appears to be public corporation status,
resulting in reduced autonomy for the GOBUs, which is disturbing during a
period in which GOSL's stated intention is to increase private sector par-
ticipation in ownership and management of public enterprises. During nego-
tiations, the legal approach to GOBUs was discussed with understandings reached
that: (a) their status would not be determined until after firm-level analysis
under the proposed project is completed; and (b) GOBUs would be converted to
companies when their primary functions are those of commercial undertakings.
C. Programs to Improve Public Enterprises
Ministry of Industries
6.05    Most public industrial activity falls under the purview of MISA.  The
16 corporations under MISA constitute 76% of capital investment, 76% of output,
60% of employment and 80% of profits in the public industrial sector. 1/ Under
the project, the Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs (MISA) would
have major responsibilities in: helping chairmen prepare corporate plans;
channelling firm-level technical assistance to address specific problems;
instituting and recommending policy changes affecting performance of the cor-
porations; and initiating pilot schemes altering ownership and management. To
implement this program over the period of October 1982 to December 1985, the
Ministry of Industries is forming a Public Enterprise Cell, to facilitate
coordinated action on corporate planning, progressive decontrol, monitoring,
development of effective incentives in line with appropriate valuation
criteria, and organization of firm-level assistance. During negotiations, the
1/  This pattern is distorted by the major role of the Petroleum Corporation,
which constituted: 18% of capital investment, 16% of profits (excluding
losses by the Fertilizer Corporation); 9% of employment; and 65% of output
by state industrial corporations in 1981. If the Petroleum Corporation
is excluded, corporations under MISA constitute about 72% of investment,
76% of profits, 48% of employment, and 65% of output of public sector
corporations.



-29-
composition and functions of the Public Enterprise Cell was discussed, with
agreement reached (Annex 17).
6.06    Corporate Plans.  The project would build on the work already begun in
instituting corporate plans as the basis for operating public sector
enterprises. In 1979/80, the Public Enterprise Division of the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, with assistance from the National Institute of Business
Management (NIBM) under MISA, took the lead in encouraging corporations to
prepare corporate plans. While useful in acquainting public enterprise
managers with the concept of corporate planning, the plans had several weaknes-
ses. Most corporate plans reflected confusion between objectives (e.g., public
profits) and constraints (e.g., labor relations), and no clear directives were
given regarding the treatment and relative priorities of noncommercial vs.
commercial objectives. Also, the preparation of the plans was not accompanied
by analysis of what constituted good vs. bad performance in achieving various
objectives. Most importantly, public enterprise managers did not view cor-
porate plans as the basis of increasing their autonomy; rather, Chairmen saw
the plans as a tool for increasing outside controls. Finally, the Ministry of
Industries was not directly involved, and thus did not use its leverage to
encourage the corporations' management to take the exercise seriously. Due to
these weaknesses, the quality of the plans was decidedly mixed.
6.07    Under the proposed project, the Public Enterprise Cell would assist the
chairmen of the corporations and GOBUs under MISA in preparing corporate plans.
The corporate planning exercise would be performed with the explicit objective
of replacing outside controls over procurement, personnel, pricing, and
day-to-day management with greater corporate autonomy, with a contractual
system of signalling and rewarding achievement of desired results. At the
outset, these plans would be prepared annually covering a rolling two to three
year period. Major features of each corporate plan would include: (a) key
performance targets, concentrating on improvements in public profits 1/ with
agreement on criterion values which will constitute acceptable and outstanding
performance; (b) measures to be taken by the corporation to achieve these
objectives; (c) critical internal and external problems, and their impact on
corporate performance; (d) valuation of assets based upon replacement rather
than historical costs; and (e) performance incentives for managers who exceed
the agreed targets. The phasing of the corporate planning exercise, introduc-
tion of performance incentives and successive removal of controls is discussed
in Annex 14. Under the project, IDA would finance two full-time advisors to
work with the Public Enterprise Cell of MISA, to assist in the installation of
corporate plans and changes in the system.  The term of these advisors would be
from about October 1983 to October 1985; estimated costs are US$340,000.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on draft terms of reference and
qualifications (Annex 17); consultants, TORs, and contractual terms would need
to be satisfactory to IDA.
6.08    Policy Measures.  As an essential complement to the corporate planning
exercise, the Public Enterprise Cell, working closely with the Public
1/ Excluding from revenues and expenses all public transfers, including taxes,
contributions to the consolidated fund, other dividends to the Treasury,
cross-subsidization among public corporations, and expenditures for social
programs.



-30-
Enterprise Division of the Ministry of Finance would analyze changes needed in
government policies and procedures which currently constrain the corporations'
ability to perform. Major dimensions would include: (a) tendering procedures
in purchasing equipment and raw materials; (b) interference and rigidities in
hiring, promotions, performance incentives, and salaries; (c) controls over
investments and financial decision-making; (d) selection criteria for Boards of
Directors; and (e) controls over pricing of products. These controls, which
seriously impair the ability of corporation chairmen to operate efficiently,
have become entrenched and will be difficult to eliminate. The Secretaries of
the Ministries of Industries and Finance have indicated the commitment of their
Ministries to gradually replace these day-to-day controls with a system based
upon corporate planning, performance incentives and management accountability
for results. The project would provide technical assistance in this task.
6.09    Firm-Level Assistance.  The project would include technical assistance,
provided by foreign and local consultants, to address specific problems at the
corporate level. The rationale for this assistance is twofold: (a) in several
cases, significant improvements in performance can be achieved by tackling
firm-level problems; and (b) by implementing pilot changes in some corporations
(accompanied by selective loosening of government controls), improved perfor-
mance may be demonstrated, providing the basis for making changes in the sys-
tem. Chairmen of most industrial corporations have expressed a strong need for
such technical assistance, particularly if it is combined with changes in the
system of controls, to enable greater flexibility in management. Annex 15
contains a summary of key internal and external problems faced by individual
public sector industrial corporations. While firm-level needs differ, several
common areas emerged from discussion with public corporate managers and
analysis of corporate plans and special studies:
(a) Personnel management, particularly in addressing overemployment
and absenteeism; developing incentives which incorporate quality
as well as output objectives; and devising effective training
programs;
(b) Market analysis combined with unit costing as the basis for
determining those products in which the corporations can be
competitive in the liberalized import environment, to enable
rationalization of product mix;
(c) Financial planning and management, which is increasingly
important with the closing of the Treasury tap and which
several Chairmen felt was the weakest functional area;
(d) Analysis of balancing, modernization and maintenance require-
ments to improve production efficiency and cost competitiveness,
and to reduce energy and raw material wastage; and
(e) Development of quality control and management information
systems.
6.10    The project would provide about 96 man-months of technical assistance
to MISA corporations. The following Chairmen have identified specific needs
which are likely to require about one man-year of technical assistance per
corporation: Cement, Ceramics, Leather, Hardware, and Mineral Sands. All
consultancy would be at the request of the relevant corporation chairmen; the



-31-
Public Enterprise Cell, with the chief advisors, would assist in preparation of
terms of references and contracts, and selection of consultants, all of which
would need to be acceptable to IDA. Estimated costs of this consultancy are
US$670,000. The costs of advisors and consultants would be treated as develop-
ment expenditures.
6.11    Pilot Schemes.  The project would encourage initiatives to increase
private participation in ownership and management of public corporations, by
providing technical assistance in the preparation and implementation of pilot
schemes, which would include: (a) joint venture companies, with local or for-
eign private partners; (b) private management contracts, in those cases in
which outside managerial, technical and/or marketing know-how is needed; and
(c) conversion of existing corporations to companies as a means to increase
autonomy and to eventually mobilize private financial resources. Formation of
companies and joint ventures will continue to be given priority for all new or
expanded public corporation activities. In addition to providing firm-level
assistance in executing these pilot schemes, the senior advisors under the
project would seek to encourage GOSL to maintain its commitment and accelerate
actions on increasing private participation in ownership and management of
public enterprises.
Ministry of Finance and Planning Committee on Public Enterprises
6.12    The Public Enterprise Division (PED) of the Ministry of Finance 1/ has
launched several initiatives to improve public enterprise performance. In
1982, under UNDP financing, the Ministry of Finance and Planning invited a team
of international experts on public enterprise management to analyze operations
of the public sector corporations, and the government systems affecting their
operation; particular attention was given to analyzing and making recommenda-
tions regarding the role of the Public Enterprise Division of MOFP. Several
elements of the technical assistance to be provided to MOFP under the project
emanate from the recommendations of this report. Major findings of the team
include the following:
(a) Corporations should be expected to focus on financial objectives;
financial performance and social objectives should be demarcated
clearly;
(b) Of the various modes of "privatization" under discussion by
GOSL, the favored and most practical options are joint ventures,
management contracts, floating of subsidiary companies, and
encouraging public enterprises to run as business concerns;
1/ A Parliamentary Committee on Public Enterprises (COPE) was established in
1979, to review performance of state corporations and to recommend measures
to improve their efficiency. The PED serves as a technical arm of COPE.
In 1982, a COPE delegation undertook a study of public enterprises in other
countries; a report on their findings and implications for Sri Lankan
public enterprises has been prepared; the report illustrates the continued
resistance by some officials and MPs to reduce controls and to enable the
corporations to focus on productivity and financial objectives.



-32-
(c) There is a clear need to rationalize the capital structure of
public sector corporations, revaluing assets and clarifying the
structure of loans vs equity;
(d) Dividends paid to the Treasury should be linked to net profits
and sound reserve practices;
(e) Investment decision-making affecting public sector corporations
needs to be streamlined;
(f) Corporate planning, involving Chairmen and supervising
ministries should be utilized as a means of outlining performance
evaluation criteria and increasing management autonomy;
(g) Management information systems need to be improved and stream-
lined, at both operating and evaluation levels, to increase
accountability, enable performance incentives, and justify
reduction in central controls; and
(h) The present structure of controls, affecting nearly every
significant managerial decision, needs to be dismantled.
The Group recommended that PED remain the advising arm to COPE, and that it
continue to serve as the "focal point" dealing with matters concerning public
enterprises which transcend the supervisory work undertaken by line ministries.
PED would improve management information and performance evaluation systems;
and spearhead corporate planning, financial policy and structural policy
issues, working in close cooperation with line ministries.
6.13    The proposed project would support PED in strengthening these func-
tions.  About US$450,000 would be provided in technical assistance and training
in the following areas: (a) accounting and management information systems;
(b) review and reform of controls affecting all public sector corporation
performance; (c) corporate planning and performance evaluation for non-MISA
corporations; and (d) structural and legal changes to increase private par-
ticipation in ownership and management. PED would work closely with the Public
Enterprise Cell of MISA to ensure coordinated approaches and maximum
decentralization of functions. Coordination meetings between the Public
Enterprise Cell of MISA and PED would be held at least monthly, chaired by the
MISA Secretary. During negotiations, implementation schedules and coordination
were discussed, with agreement reached on composition of the Coordinating
Committee (Annex 17).
Organization and Procedures
6.14    Prior to disbursements for their public enterprise programs, the Minis-
try of Industries and the Ministry of Finance, respectively, would prepare
implementation plans and first-year action programs acceptable to IDA. Each
agency also would prepare, by November 30 of the prior year, action plans for
years two and three of the project. During negotiations, agreement in sub-
stance was reached on the implementation plan for MISA's program to improve
public enterprise performance. Qualifications, terms of reference, and con-
tractual arrangements for all consultants would need to be acceptable to IDA.
For convenience, the Ministries of Finance and Industries would channel



-33-
authorization and withdrawal requests and quarterly progress reports through
NDB.
VII. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.01    Arrangements for the Credit.  The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 23.1
million (US$25 million equivalent) would be made to the Government of Sri Lanka
on standard IDA terms and conditions. The Credit provides for a commitment
period of three years and disbursement in five years. GOSL would onlend
US$23.0 million of the credit to NDB and DFCC through subsidiary loan agree-
ments with each institution. The amounts available to NDB and DFCC would be
determined on the basis of actual commitments, with no preallocation by bank;
GOSL would pass the proceeds of the credit to NDB and DFCC in Rupees, with GOSL
bearing the foreign exchange risk on repayments to IDA. Repayments to GOSL
would be on interest rates resulting in a fixed spread of 3% to NDB and 4% to
DFCC (para 7.03).
7.02    Technical assistance funds of US$2.0 million would be utilized for
consultancy and training for the Ministry of Industries, Ministry of Finance
and the development and commercial banks. NDB would be responsible for
administering technical assistance for the commercial banks (US$0.4 million)
and for channelling authorization and withdrawal requests from the Ministries
of Finance and Industries to IDA. Costs of the technical assistance component,
which are outlined in Annex 4, would not be repayable to GOSL as they con-
stitute development expenditures. These technical services are expected to
result in improved output and profitability over the medium term, which would
result in tax and dividend revenue for GOSL, and achievement of employment and
output objectives.
7.03    On-lending Terms and Conditions.  Given GOSL's recent important
modifications in interest rates (paras 2.13 to 2.15), and objectives of
rationalizing lending rates the initial onlending rate to be charged to subbor-
rowers by NDB and DFCC would be 14%. As in previous SMI and DFCC credits, the
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government. The 14% on-lending
rate reflects reductions in inflation and is positive in relation to medium
term inflation projections (para 2.14). The Government has confirmed that
during the disbursement period of the IDP, the lending rate and refinance
percentages under the Central Bank's medium and long term industrial refinance
schemes would be adjusted as necessary to ensure that final onlending rates for
industry are not lower than those charged by NDB and DFCC under the Industrial
Development Project. The on-lending rate to industrial borrowers would be
reviewed semi-annually, and would be revised if necessary to ensure that rates
remain positive in relation to medium term inflation projections and consistent
with minimum commercial bank rates for industry. If lending rates are revised,
the new rates would apply only to loans not yet approved prior to the revision.
Initially, GOSL would on-lend the proceeds of the credit to NDB at 11% and to
DFCC at 10%, which would provide them a spread of 3% and 4% respectively,
sufficient to cover administrative costs and risks of default on subloans
approved under the project. The higher spread to DFCC is justified since it is
subject to the corporate income tax of 44%, whereas NDB's income is tax free
for 10 years; also the average DFCC subloan size is expected to be lower, with
resultant higher administrative costs as a percentage of subloan size. GOSL
would pay the standard commitment fee on the undisbursed amount of the credit;



-34-
NDB and DFCC would charge their subborrowers a similar commitment fee. The
initial framework of the proposed rates and spreads would be:
Initial Rates and Speads
(per annum)
NDB                  DF_C
Final on-lending rate                   14%                  14%
Fixed spread to DFCC and NDB             3%                   4%
Rate charged by GOSL                    11%                  10%
IDA Service charge                       0.75%                0.75%
The above rates and spreads were agreed at negotiations. The continued
appropriateness of these terms would be monitored during the commitment period.
7.04    Amortization.  Repayment from NDB and DFCC to GOSL would be based on a
fixed amortization schedule of 18 years including 5 years grace. The repayment
periods of subborrowers to NDB and DFCC would not exceed 15 years, including
three years' grace; most subloans would be for 7 to 10 years. Repayment from
GOSL to IDA would be the standard 50 years amortization schedule, including 10
years of grace.
7.05    Maximum Size, Free Limits and Subloan Review.  The maximum size of
eligible subloans under the proposed project would be determined by the
exposure limits of NDB and DFCC; at present, NDB can provide a loan of up to
Rs 100 million (US$4.4 million) and DFCC a loan of up to Rs 40.0 million
(US$1.8 million). In the case of NDB, prior IDA review and approval would be
required for all subloans above US$400,000 (Rs 9.2 million). Also, since NDB
is a new client of IDA in direct lending operations, the first three private
and first three public sector subprojects, irrespective of size, would require
prior IDA review and approval. It is estimated that 40% of NDB's subprojects
by number and 70% by amount would receive prior IDA approval. In the case of
DFCC, all subloans above US$250,000 would be submitted to IDA for prior review
and approval; this free limit is expected to result in about 30% by number and
60% by amount receiving prior IDA review and approval.
7.06    Procurement.  Limited international bidding would be required for
individual contracts above US$2 million. In these cases, NDB and DFCC would
insist that project sponsors contact embassies and trade representatives of IDA
member countries; however, they would not be required to advertise in interna-
tional publications as reflected in the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (section
1.02). For smaller contracts, NDB and DFCC would employ their existing
procurement procedures (paras 4.08 and 5.10) which conform to the Bank's stand-
ard practices for DFCs. In most cases, machinery and equipment would be
procured by obtaining at least three competitive quotations from established
sources. Only under the special component for equipment loans to be processed
on an accelerated review basis, NDB and DFCC could submit subloan applications
with procurement requests based on less than three quotations if the amount of
each contract was less than US$50,000. NDB and DFCC would be expected to
maintain records of the method of procurement and to monitor utilization of
subloans through regular supervision activities.
7,07    Disbursement Procedures.  The estimated disbursement schedule is shown
in Annex 19, which reflects the profile of actual disbursements of Bank-wide



-35-
DFC projects. IDA would disburse against 100% of the foreign exchange costs
for machinery and equipment of eligible subloans and 70% of the costs of
imported equipment bought off the shelf, corresponding to the estimated foreign
exchange content of these items. As in the case of prior Bank/IDA loans to
DFCC, full documentation of expenditures would be submitted to IDA. For the
technical assistance component, IDA would finance 100% of expenditures for
consultants' services and overseas training.
7.08    Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  As at present, NDB's and DFCC's
accounts would be audited by external auditors; NDB would be subject, as DFCC
has been, to the provisions of the long-form audit. The accounts of sub-
borrowers would be audited according to their established practices and the
covenants in the subloan agreements. For public sector subborrowers, accounts
of the Auditor General would be submitted to IDA. IDA shall have the right to
require that corporations contract the services of auditing firms, as con-
sidered necessary. NDB and DFCC would submit quarterly progress reports cover-
ing their operations under the loan and related institutional developments;
financial statements would be submitted semi-annuAlly. The Ministries of
Finance and Industries would submit quarterly reports covering progress under
the public sector technical assistance program.
VIII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
8.01    Benefits.  The project benefits would consist of incremental investment
and improved output and efficiency in private and public industrial
enterprises. Direct benefits of the lending component would include US$41
million in additional fixed and permanent working capital investment, with
about US$35 million in incremental annual output once projects become fully
operational. Direct employment creation would depend on the composition of
subprojects presented by NDB and DFCC; a rough estimate of jobs to be created
would be about 2,500, with fixed assets per job averaging about US$15,000; in
addition, productivity of workers in existing enterprises would be increased
through balancing and modernization investments. Technical assistance to
improve the development banks' subsector analysis and project promotion efforts
are expected to result in an increased proportion of term lending being chan-
nelled to subsectors with higher indigenous raw material content and stronger
forward and backward linkages (e.g. agro-industries, rubber products,
engineering industries, and tourism investments outside Colombo).
8.02    The improvement of consortium lending arrangements involving the
development banks, commercial banks, and investment funds would increase the
quantity and quality of projects financed, by improving appraisal standards,
spreading risks on larger industrial investments, and attracting more funds to
industrial finance. Also, the establishment of the new equity fund, to be
administered by NDB, will help bridge gaps in the capital markets, addressing
equity constraints in larger industrial investment. GOSL and the financial
institutions view these measures as important steps in improving term financing
instruments.
8.03    The project also is expected to yield direct benefits in improving
performance of public enterprises, supporting moves to increase autonomy,
introducing performance incentives, tackling firm-level problems, and
accelerating the process of increased private sector involvement in ownership
and management. Improvements in the tariff structure and industrial export



-36-
incentives would encourage increased investment in efficient industrial
enterprises based on Sri Lanka's comparative advantages.
8.04    Risks.  A risk of the lending component of the proposed project is that
an adequate number of eligible subprojects might not materialize, due to uncer-
tainties in a recessionary environment. However, the pipelines and projections
of NDB and DFCC indicate credit demand well in excess of the amounts provided
under the credit given that the Bank Group's lending for the IDP was reduced
from US$35 million to US$25 million to reflect the current investment climate.
It is probable that full commitment of the US$23 million IDA subloan component
will be achieved in less than three years provided under this project.
8.05     Success of the program to improve performance of public enterprises
will require strong commitment by the relevant Ministries to: (a) replace
controls with a system of accountability and performance incentives; and (b)
encourage increased private participation in ownership and management. While
strong support for the proposed program has been obtained, implementation will
involve a delicate process; many controls are entrenched, and there will con-
tinue to be varying views on the appropriate role of public enterprises. A
detailed implementation plan, agreed during negotiations, reflects commitment
to concrete action in a much needed program to improve public enterprise per-
fo rmance.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    During negotiations, agreements or understandings between IDA and
GOSL/NDB/DFCC were reached on:
(a) on-lending terms and conditions, spreads, and subproject
eligibility criteria (paras 3.03 and 7.03);
(b) administrative arrangements and financing of consultants,
including draft terms of reference, with provision that qual-
ification, terms of reference and contractual conditions for
the consultants would be acceptable to IDA (paras 3.04-3.09,
4.04 and 5.08);
(c) the basis for a phased action program for tariff reform
incorporating the findings of the Effective Protection
Study which the Government would submit to IDA by
June 30, 1984, and on which implementation would commence
by September 30, 1984 (para 3.08);
(d) outline of the study of industrial incentives (para 3.09);
(e) components, institutional arrangements, costs and counterpart
financing requirements (paras 3.10, 7.01-7.04);
(f) staffing of project promotion units in NDB and DFCC (paras
4.15 and 5.07);



-37-
(g) a detailed implementation plan for MISA's program to improve
public enterprise performance; contents of annual action
plans, acceptable to IDA, to be prepared by MISA and MOFP
by November 30 each year; and composition of the MISA cell
and (para 6.14); and
(h) procedures for procurement, disbursement, review, reporting,
accounting and auditing (paras 7.06-7.08).
9.02    Conditions of participation for NDB and DFCC in the project would be
that:
(a) The Boards of Directors of these institutions approve their
respective Strategy Statements (paras 4.05 and 5.05); and
(b) that NDB and DFCC establish project identification and
promotion units (paras 4.15 and 5.07).
9.03    Conditions of effectiveness for the proposed credit would be that:
(a) at least one bank had complied with conditions of participation; and
(b) subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to IDA, be signed between
GOSL and NDB and DFCC respectively (para 7.01).
9.04    Development of an implementation plan and establishment of a Public
Enterprise Cell with adequate staffing (paras 6.05 and 6.13) would be a condi-
tion of disbursement of the technical assistance to the Ministry of Industries
for its program to improve public enterprise performance.



SRI LANKA
INDICATORS OF PERFORMANCE IN LARGE INDUSTRIES
Share in Z of Total.!/                                               Ratio in RupeeV
Number         Value         Fixed                             Fixed Investment        Value Added           Rupee of Fixed
of Firms      Added       Investment       Employmeut           per Employee           per Employee            Investment
Food, Beverage a Tobacco                                 9             32            17               20                  21,700                40,300                   1.86
(Sugar)                               U()             (1)          (5)               (6)               (16,900)               (4,800)                 (0.28)
(Distilling)                           (-)            (1)          (3)               (2)               (19.600)               (7.400)                 (0.37)
(Tobacco)                              (1)           (21)           (3)              (2)               (27,40()             (228;;00)                 (8.33)
Textile & Garments                                      45             26            21               41                 .12,860                15,600                   1.21
Wood Products                                            4              3             5                6                  24.400                12,300                   0.5
Pader Products                                           4              5            16                5                  80,200                18.200                   0.23
Rubber & Chemical Products 2/                           13             10             9                 7                 33,100                39,400                   1.2
(Soap)                                 (3)            (4)           (3)              (1)               (48.200)              (94,000)                  (1.95)
(Tyre & Tube)                          (1)            (1)           (1)              (2)               (20,300)              (22,200)                  (1.09)
(Rubber)                               (2)            (1)           (1)              (1)               (30.700)              (27,000)                  (0.88)
(Plastic)                              (3)            (1)          (1)               (1)               (35.700)              (37,000)                  (1.04)
Non-Metallic Mineral Products                            7             10            17               11                  38.500                21,600                   0.56
Basic Metal Products                                     1              1             5                2                  47,900                12,200                   0.'5
Fabricated Metal Products                               16             12             7                7                  23.800                44,100                   1.85
Other                                                    1              1             2                 1                 32,700                23,700                   0.72
Total -                               100            100           100              100                  24                                             1.20
/1   Figures do not add to 100 due to rounding.
/2 Excluding petroleum products.
SOURCE:  Dept. of Census & Statistics,
Report on the Survey on Manufacturing Industries. 1979.
April 1983
ASPID



-39-
ANNEX 2
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Performance and Prospects of the Tourism Sector
1.       Sri Lanka has achieved a remarkable success in attracting foreign
tourists over the past fifteen years. Until the 1960s, tourism stagnated at a
low level with visitor arrivals, on business or pleasure, fluctuating around
20,000 annually. In 1966 it was decided to promote the industry, the Ceylon
Tourist Board (CTB) was established and a ten-year tourism plan (1967-76) was
adopted. From less than 19,000 arrivals in 1966, visitor numbers more than
doubled to reach 46,000 in 1970. Thereafter, despite year-to-year variations,
a high growth rate was maintained, averaging 21% annually over the period
1970-80. The growth rate slowed to 12.5% annually in the past two years,
reflecting in part the world recession. Total visitor arrivals numbered
407,000 in 1982.
2.       The great majority of visitors (about 90%) are recorded as
vacationers, and only about 6% as business visitors. The latter figure is
probably an under-estimate. Western Europe is the major market for vacation
visitors, providing around 60% of all visitors in recent years. Within
Western Europe, the Federal Republic of Germany and France are the largest
markets, together accounting for about half of all European visitors.
However, traffic from the United Kingdom rose sharply in 1980 and 1981, almost
equalling the total from France. In 1982, traffic from Europe declined for
the first time (by 5.5%) but this was offset by a continued rapid growth in
traffic from India which rose from 36,000 in 1980 to 93,000 in 1982. Traffic
from Asian countries now accounts for about a third of all visitors.
Government Policies
3.       From the mid-1960s, the Government has consistently supported the
development of the sector, adopting appropriate air access policies, providing
essential infrastructure and granting incentives to encourage private
investment in tourism. Because of Sri Lanka's location far from the world's
major tourism markets, the Government has supported policies favoring lower
air fares by encouraging air charter operations from Europe and by encouraging
reduced group fares on scheduled airlines flying to Colombo, particularly by
the national airline, Air Lanka. The major incentives for private investors
were tax holidays and fast write-offs of capital investments in hotels, but
before the change in economic policies in 1977, private investment in the
sector was encouraged also by restrictions on investments in other sectors,
particularly manufacturing and agriculture. From April 1983, tax holidlys for
new projects in the hotel sector were withdrawn, but investment relief_, still
applies.
4.       The expansion of hotel capacity has been financed largely with
private capital. Public funds were mobilized to finance the two older 5-star
1/ up to one third of assessable income of those investing in the equity
capital of hotels is free of income tax.



ANNEX 2
-40-                                  Page 2
hotels in Colombo--the Intercontinental and the Lanka Oberoi--and to help in
financing the new 500 room Galadari Meridien Hotel. Since the establishment
of the NDB in 1979, private investors have sought greater public financing,
particularly for larger higher category hotels. Though public share issues to
raise equity capital for new hotels have increased significantly in number in
the past year, continued financial support from the public sector for
investment in hotels will be necessary to achieve the expansion of capacity
required to meet future demand growth.
Future Prospects
5.       The Ceylon Tourist Board earlier projected that visitor arrivals
would grow on average by 15% annually over the period 1979-1984. Projected
and actual arrivals are shown in the table below:
Tourist Arrivals
(000)
Year                       Projected          Actual
1979                          250              250
1980                          298              322
1981                          348              371
1982                          400              407
1983                          452
1984                          506
6.       Although the overall target for 1982 was achieved, the decline in
European arrivals meant lower occupancy rates in hotels, as new capacity was
added in the past two years. Hoteliers increased their prices, due to rising
costs and the earlier pressure of demand, particularly in the higher category
hotels in Colombo and on the beach, and as a result partly of tax increases
such as the rise in business turnover tax on hotels and restaurants and the
level of taxes on vehicles used by tour operators and some consumer items
(e.g. alcoholic beverages), present prices in Sri Lanka appear to be less
competitive than formerly as compared with such destinations as Kenya and
Thailand.
7.       Following the small decline in European traffic in 1982, a recovery
was experienced in the early months of 1983. Nevertheless, it is likely that
future growth in visitor arrivals from Europe will be slower than in the
past. To offset any shortfall in European vacation traffic, greater marketing
efforts are to be made in the Middle East, in Japan and Australia, and new
market segments such as the incentive tour and convention markets are to be
promoted. Business visits from Asian and OECD countries have been increasing
in response to the higher level of commercial and industrial activity since
1977, and this trend is likely to continue. The fast growth in traffic from
India appears largely motivated by shopping opportunities in Sri Lanka; this
market segment is vulnerable to any change in Indian currency or import
regulations. Provided that price increases in Sri Lanka are restrained to
enable it to remain a competitive destination, and given an upturn in the



ANNEX 2
Page 3
-41-
world economy, the Ceylon Tourist Board's overall projection of some 500,000
visitor arrivals by 1984 or soon thereafter seems attainable.
Implications for NDB and DFCC
8.       The CTB projects hotel capacity requirements at about 11,000 rooms by
1984 as compared with 7,500 rooms existing at the end of 1982. Some 3,900 new
rooms in projects approved by the CTB are currently under construction, of
which over 2,000 rooms are in Colombo. This is likely to result in an excess
supply of hotel rooms in Colombo in the mid-1980s, but further expansion will
be needed on the beach and on tourist circuits to meet demand beyond 1984.
9.       The investment cost of projects already under way is estimated at
some US$150 million, and of projects expected to begin in the near future at
about US$20 million. The bulk of the financing appears to be assured for
projects costing about US$100 million. The NDB and DFCC have agreed or are
expecting to provide about US$7-8 million equivalent towards these projects.
No new commitments for tourism projects have been made by DFCC since March
1982 as a matter of policy, but NDB is in principle willing to continue to
assist in financing such projects. A relatively large project in NDB's
pipeline for which no commitment has yet been made is the renovation of the
Queen's Hotel in Kandy, estimated to cost US$9-10 million. NDB is also being
asked to provide a share of the loan capital of the 5-star beach hotel at
Bentota of which the principal sponsor is the Indian Hotel Company (the Taj
Group), and in which IFC has approved an equity investment of US$100,000 and
loans totalling $3.0 million.
Recommendations
10.      The NDB (and possibly at a later stage DFCC) should exercise caution
in further lending to the hotel sector until trends in the vacation visitor
market for Sri Lanka become clearer in the next twelve months. Such caution
is more necessary because the sponsors of many hotel projects, stimulated by
the prospective withdrawal of the tax holidays from April 1, 1983, hastened to
apply for the necessary approvals of the Ceylon Tourist Board and the Ministry
of Finance before March 31, 1983. Were all the projects for Colombo which
received such approvals to proceed, there would be a still greater over-supply
of hotel capacity in Colombo in the mid-1980s. In setting priorities for
future lending for hotels, NDB and DFCC should coordinate closely with the
CTB, where the prime responsibility for guiding the development of the sector
rE!sts. The bulk of the hotel projects on which construction has begun or is
expected to begin shortly appear to accord with market requirements in terms
of location and standard of amenity. The major exception to this is the
pioposed expansion of 5-star hotel capacity in Colombo. Hence it is
recommended that in the near term NDB and DFCC should not assist in financing
ary new 5-star hotel in Colombo, except possibly for limited assistance to
those hotels whose construction is already well advanced. Under the proposed
IDA credit, NDB's and DFCC's withdrawals for tourism subprojects would be
po3sible, provided that such lending does not lead to tourism exceeding 30%
of their respective portfolios.



-42-                                     ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA
INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE
(in percent)
A.  DEPOSIT RATES
Treasury   Savings                   Fixed Deposits
Bills     Deposits  3 months  6 months  12 months  24 months
1.  People's Bank           13     10 - 13.5  12 - 14         15          18          20
2.  Bank of Ceylon          13     10 - 13.5  12 - 14         15          18          20
3.  Hatton Bank             13     10 - 13.5  12 - 14        15          18           20
4.  Commercial Bank
of Ceylon            13      10 - 13.5  12 - 14        15          18          20
5.  DFCC                     -         -           -           -           -           -
6.  National Savings
Bank                  -         12          -          15          18          18
B.  LENDING RATES
1. Commercial Bank loans (term loans
and working capital)                              22 - 30 % a!
2.  DFCC                                                   17
3.  NDB                                                    17
C.  REFINANCE LOANS                                                     Prior to       After
March 1983  March 1983
1.  Export Projects (100% Refinance) b/
Loans not exceeding
Rs 5 million:   Central Bank to Commercial Bank                 10%           9%
Commercial Bank to project sponsor            12%           11%
Loans exceeding
Rs 5 million:   Central Bank to Commercial Bank                 11%          10%
Commercial Bank to project sponsor            13%           12%
In April 1983, the refinance percentage was reduced to 70%,
which resulted in an effective cost to the project sponsor of 14%.
2. Regular Medium and Long Term Credit (non-export projects)
Central Bank Refinance Portion                                         16%           15%
Equivalent Commercial Bank On-Lending Rate to Sponsor                   20% c/       19% c/
a/  Commercial bank lending rates to clients vary by bank, by reputation of the client
and by nature of the loan.
b/ In April 1983 the refinance percentage on export loans was reduced to 70%.
c/  Reflects a blend of refinance (60% of loan size lent at 15%) plus loan from bank's
own resources (40%) lent at higher rates.
Source: Central Bank of Ceylon, Bulletin, January 83; NDB and DFCC data.
ASPID
April 1983



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of IDA Financing for Technical Assistance Component 1/
Agency                                 Element                                     Man-months        Costs
T.A.  Training   (USS '000)
I. Credit Institutions
(a) NDB                        - Chief and Operational Advisors                      18                   126
- Subsector Analysis                                 12                    84
- Training (in SE Asia)                                        48          70
- Consulting on consortium financing,
equity fund                                       4                    28
Subtotal, NDB (a)                                                                                     308
(b) DFCC                       - Subsector analysis, promotion, and other            18                   126
- Training (in SE Asia)                                        24          35
Subtotal, DFCC (b)                                                                                    161
(c) Commercial Banks           - Consultancy in MIS, appraisal, supervision          30                   210
- Training (in SE Asia)                                        48          70
Subtotal, Commercial Banks (c)                                                                        280
Total, Financial Institutions                                                                                   749
II. Public Sector Enterprises
(a) Ministry of Industries    - Corporation Planning and Controls                   48                    336
and Corporations
- Firm Level Assistance, TA for Pilots               96                   384 2/
Subtotal, MISA (a)                                                                                    720
(b) Ministry of Finance        - Advisor of MIS                                      24                   168
- Corporate Planning (non MiSA Corp.),
Efficiency                                       24                   168
- PED Review                                          6                    42
- Training and Exposure                                        35          53
Subtotal, MINFIN (b)                                                                                  431
Total, Public Sector Enterprises              -                                                                1151
III. Policy Work
(a) MOFP/Pres. Tariff Comm.   - Tariff Reform                                         6                    42
(b) MOFP                       - Incentive Study                                     12                    84
Subtotal, Policy Work                                                                                 126
GRAND TOTAL                                                                    298 3/   155          2026
1/ Cost estimates are based upon an average of US$7,000 in man-month costs for foreign consultants.
However, in the case of technical assistance from ICICI, the US$5,000 man-months costs already are
known, and are reflected as such. Man-month costs for local consultants are expected to average about
US$1,000. These costs include fees, subsistence allowances, and international travel. Local transport
costs would be borne by GOSL.
2/ Assumes that half of the consultants are local.
3/ The project includes 298 man-months of local and foreign advisory and consultancy services and 155 man-
months of foreign training; for purposes of estimation, 250 man-months are assumed to be foreign and
48 man-months would be local consultancy. Training costs are expected to average about US$1,500 per month.



ANNEX 5
- 44 -                           Page 1 of 8
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SRI LANKA
STRATEGY FOR 1982 - 1986
A. STRATEGY
1. RELEVANT CONSIDERATIONS
1.1 The Bank's operational strategy for the period 1982 - 1986 should:
- implement the Bank's objectives as stated in the NDB Act;
- provide support for the Government's development strategy
as regards business, industry and the capital market;
- take into account the needs and capacities of a relatively
new institution;
- provide for orderly co-operation with other financial
institutions in the country; and
1.2     These considerations are examined in detail and relevant strategies
set forth in the following sections.
2.  THE BANK'S OBJECTIVES
2.1     The broad objectives of the Bank as stated in th Act, are to promote
the industrial, agricultural, commercial and other development of the
economy of Sri Lanka.
2.2     Given the size of the Banks capital, its potential resource
capability, the structure of its ownership and Board, the powers given to it
by the NDB Act, and its history to date, the Bank is well placed to play a
leading and distinctive role in development financing.
2.3     The Act mentions the following as NDB's basic purposes:
- providing credit and other forms of assistance;
- stimulating the further development of the capital market;
- mobilizing capital; and
- engaging in project promotion.
The Bank expects to address these purposes as follows:



ANNEX 5
- 45 -                             Page 2 of 8
(a) Providing Credit and Assistance
2.4     The principal aims of the Bank will be to:
- become a significant source of term financing and equity.
The Bank would do so by setting its cumulative target for
direct loan commitments upto 1986 at around Rs 2.4 billion
and its cumulative equity investment commitments at Rs 100
million;
by setting its target for the number of clients to
total 150 by 1986; and
by setting its target of refinance credit for its SMI
operations at 6,000 clients by 1986, representing an
amount of around Rs 1,000 million.
- In addition to SMI refinance, diversify its refinance operations
for larger projects. The Bank would do so by offering a new
refinance scheme in respect of which it would bear part of the
risk, and keep itself open to devising new refinancing schemes
to support priority sectors. In this way the Bank hopes to
strengthen its role as a potential "apex" institution to other
sources of investment finance.
- Strengthen its service activities. The Bank would do so by
increasing substantially the number and value of its syndica-
tions, underwritings and co-financing activities. In particular,
the Bank will seek to tap sources of investment finance not so
far available for industrial investments (see Section 5).
(b) Promoting Development of the Rural Sector
2.5     The Bank's main strategy to achieve this objective will be through
an extensive refinancing program in support of small and medium-scale
industries (SMI). The Bank will also seek, to the extent possible, to
encourage the location of viable larger industries in rural areas to spread
economic benefits. The Bank's specific goals in these regards are mentioned
in section 3.4 below.
(c) Stimulating the Capital Market
2.7     The Bank's main strategies to fulfill this obligation will be to:
- buy unseasoned equities from client enterprises, hold them for
seasoning and sell them in the open market in due course;
- encourage client companies to seek quotations for their shares;
- restrict the finance provided to individuals, partnerships and
private limited companies and accord priority to quoted or
potentially quotable companies;



ANNEX 5
-46-                                Page 3 of 8
- strengthen its underwriting function; initially by increasing
the number and volume of such transactions, but over time, by
developing a distribution mechanism for the shares in its
portfolio, to facilitate primary issues, and secondary issues;
- help increase the supply of shares potentially available,
through sponsoring the establishment of an equity fund or
investment company in association with other sources of
finance; and
- as the opportunity develops, promote or join with others in
the promotion of specialized financial institutions needed to
support a rapid development of the capital market.
In support of this, NDB will establish and manage an Equity Fund called the
Capital Development and Investment Company (CDIC) incorporated under the
Companies Act. NDB will provide upto Rs 100 million in equity to the CDIC
and will seek to mobilize a further Rs 200 million of equity capital from
the Government and other financial institutions.
(d) Mobilizing Capital
2.8     In order to enable mobilization of loan finance, the Bank will
protect its creditworthiness by pursuing prudent lending and investment
policies (without prejudice to its development goal). The Bank hopes to
attract further loan funds from international and bilateral sources.
2.9     When the cost of local capital reaches a point at which borrowing
with a reasonable margin for onlending is possible, the Bank will try to
place appropriate securities on the local market to mobilize medium and
long-term resources.
2.10    The Bank thus hopes to have borrowed the equivalent of Rs 1.2 bil-
lion by 1986.
2.11    The Bank will conserve its earnings in order to increase the funds
needed for its operations and will have a well-formulated reserve and
dividend policy. The Bank's equity is expected to increase by 1986 to Rs
1.6 billion.
(e) Project Promotion
2.12    The Bank will give special emphasis to project promotion to build
its pipeline and diversify its areas of assistance by subsector and project
size. The bank will seek to develop new viable private sector clients and
will focus its financing of public sector projects on balancing, modern-
ization and replacement investment for viable existing enterprises, and
expansion projects.
2.13    The Bank's modus operandi for project promotion will comprise:
- developing a stronger client base through improved client
contacts and more active business and entrepreneurial promotion;



ANNEX 5
- 47 -                             Page 4 of 8
- identifying on a selective basis industrial subsectors that
have potential for growth on sound economic lines; undertaking
studies of such projects in association with potential sponsors
to the stage of financing by the Bank and other sources;
- further action to identify projects suitable for the Project
Development Facility (PDF), assisted by a grant of US$ 500,000
from UNDP;
- flexible use of the Bank's own contribution of US$ 250,000
equivalent to the PDF; and
- embarking on a program to prepare project profiles which would
be of use to entrepreneurs, and'seeking sponsors to implement
such projects with financial support from the Bank.
To carry out these activities, the Bank will establish a project promotion
and business development unit with initial staffing of at least three
officers.
3. SECTORAL PRIORITIES
(a) Expanding Private Sector Investments
3.1     The Bank's direct financing, both by way of loan and equity, is
available for private enterprises. As mentioned earlier, the Bank aims to
become a significant source of investment finance to such enterprises. It
expects to provide a flexible and speedy service to its clients. (See also
Section 5 as regards co-ordination with other financial institutions).
(b) Improving Public Enterprise Efficiency
3.2     An important purpose of the Bank is to finance worthwhile projects
of public enterprises, with particular attention to BMR.  In light of the
government's objectives to improve public enterprise efficiency, the Bank
would promote viable balancing and modernization investments through its
lending operations and would utilize the equity fund to encourage increased
private participation in public sector enterprises.
(c) Attracting Foreign Investment
3.3     The Bank will actively encourage, whenever desirable, the close
association of foreign sources of finance and know-how with its projects.
In pursuit of this aim:
- the Bank would locate and canvas sources of funds and know-how
for individual projects;
- invite foreign financial institutions to co-finance or joint
syndication groups for suitable projects;



ANNEX 5
- 48 -                             Page 5 of 8
- encourage local entrepreneurs or public sector corporations that
are weak in management or marketing expertise to seek associa-
tion with foreign sources to strengthen their expertise; and
- seek to protect domestic interests through monitoring carefully
all proposed arrangements for transfer of know-how, know-how
fees, transfer pricing, procurement and related matters.
(d) Encouragement of Small and Medium Industries
3.4     The Bank attaches great value to the development of entrepreneur-
ship, diversification of ownership, geographical decentralization, employ-
ment and other benefits of small-scale enterprises, and recognizes the
importance of small and medium scale industries, particularly
agro-processing industries, in promoting the development of the rural sec-
tor. In pursuit of this goal: the Bank would seek to continue for several
years the program of refinancing started in 1979 with IDA funds, through
supple- mentary financing for this purpose from appropriate sources.
(e) Subsector Priorities
3.5     NDB will focus on the following industries in implementing its
strategy:
(i) The Bank will place special emphasis on financing
agroindustries given the indigenous raw material supply
and the inadequate attention given to this area in the
past. Product groups of particular interest will be
rubber-based and coconut-based industries, fruit and
vegetable processing and canning, edible and non-edible
oils, and wood products;
(ii) Engineering products, as a means of deepening the
manufacturing base of the economy by financing engineering
enterprises which are efficient in import-substitution or
have promising export prospects;
(iii) Chemical products which have significant foreign exchange
savings and where the technology and skills are available or
can be obtained from abroad;
(iv) Export-oriented industries, with high local value added and
net foreign exchange earnings will be encouraged;
(v) Hotels and tourism-related projects, up to a maximum of 30%
NDB s loan portfolio at the end of each fiscal year. Projects
for construction of "five-star" hotels will not be financed
if there is a strong likelihood that excess capacity is
emerging (e.g. in Colombo);
(vi) Industrial Services which are crucial to the growth of the
economy, such as repair facilities used for transportation; and
(vii) Equipment requirement in manufacturing enterprises, which
might not form part of a larger project.



ANNEX 5
49                                Page 6 of 8
(f) Employment Generation
3.6     The employment-generating aspects of projects would be a subject of
careful attention by the Bank. To implement this goal, the Bank would:
- continue support for the SMI Program as already mentioned;
- support medium-scale industries not eligible under the SMI
program through direct financing;
- support the tourism sector which has a high direct and
indirect employment content; and
- use capital/employment ratios as an appraisal tool.
(g) Foreign Exchange Generation:
3.7     The Bank will accord high priority to projects that generate or save
foreign exchange. Accordingly, the Bank will apply tests relating to Domes-
tic Resource Costs as a proportion of foreign exchange earned/saved, as an
appraisal tool (para 3.10).
(h) Efficiency of Public Sector Enterprises
3.8     In support of the Government's aim to restore the efficiency of
public sector enterprises, the Bank would, with direct support from the
controlling Ministries:
- encourage Government enterprises to map out appropriate corporate
investment plans and priorities and select projects for financing;
co-operate with technical assistance staff expected to be assigned
for this purpose.
- insist on well-prepared projects before financing them; where
needed, provide funds and assistance under the Project Development
Facil-ty to undertake feasibility studies or studies on specific
aspects;
- discourage expansion while major tasks of rehabilitation remain
unattended to; consider viable rehabilitation projects where
needed;
- encourage the formation of new mixed companies sponsored or
co-owned by public corporations, jointly owned by private
sources of know-how and finance, and competently managed, to
undertake large expansions;
- insist on reasonable equity contribution to support the debt
finance sought; and
- assist whenever requested experts obtained by Government
enterprises to help in their rehabilitation/modernization
efforts.



ANNEX 5
-50 -                               Page 7 of 8
(i) Quick-gestation Projects
3.9     The interest of the Bank in financing projects in the medium size
range will have in part the effect of supporting the Government's strategy
to achieve quick results. The Bank will carefully limit its financing of
long-gestation projects to those that are clearly supported by the Govern-
ment in the national interest.
(j) Economic and Financial Merit of Assisted Projects
3.10    The Bank, as already mentioned, will use appropriate measures and
techniques to appraise and monitor the economic merit of the projects it
finances. In regard to large projects, (those involving loans of more than
US$400,000 equivalent) it will calculate-the economic rate of return and
will not normally accept any project with a rate of return of less than 10%.
For all projects, where possible, the financial rate of return will be
calculated and projects with a rate of return of less than the opportunity
cost of capital will not normally be accepted.
4. ORGANIZATION
4.1     The Bank will strengthen its organization to cope with the growth
and other tasks arising from the strategy chosen for 1982 - 86. The Bank
will do so by:
- increasing the number of full professional positions;
- strengthening its senior and mid-development; and
- creating specialized departments as needed to handle
specialized functions.
4.2     Arranging training facilities for new existing staff:
- the Bank will, besides conducting in-house training for
its staff, provide specialized training outside Sri Lanka
for a substantial proportion of its professional staff
including most of its engineering staff.
4.3     Articulating and implementing systematic appraisal, supervision and
loan collections procedures:
- the Bank will do so by prescribing in near final form the
Manuals of Operations now available in draft form; refining
the manuals and procedures as it gains more experience;
strengthening its project follow-up procedures and organiza-
tion for directly financed projects; and instituting a more
intensive follow-up and evaluation system for the SMI
refinance scheme.



ANNEX 5
- 51 -                              Page 8 of 8
4.4     Moving cautiously toward a role of leadership in the investment
financing community, avoiding an excessive spread of its human resources
over a wide area.
5. CO-OPERATING WITH OTHER FINANCIAL INSTITUTIO'IS
5.1     The Bank is enjoined by its charter "whenever it is feasible and
desirable to act in participation or co-operation with approved credit
institutions." The Bank accords priority to such co-operation and has
developed the following modes for doing so:
(a) Consortium financing, by organizing formal meetings of
the four indigenous commercial banks and DFCC, to
streamline loan application and review procedures,
spread risk, and provide feedback to other lenders;
(b) purchasing participatins in term loans made by other
financial institutions for new projects, provided the
underlying appraisal meets the Bank's normal criteria;
(c) syndicating loans with other financial institutions,
including merchant banks, whether as leader or participant;
(d) refinancing term loans made by other financial institutions
for new projects, provided the underlying appraisal meets
the Bank's normal criteria; sharing a part of the risk of
such loans through partial recourse arrangements as
opposed to the full recourse arrangements now offered by
the Central Bank.
5.2     The Bank recognizes that sources of term funds such as the
Employee's Trust Fund, the Insurance Corporations and the State Mortgage
Bank might, if supported by the Bank's appraisal capability, be persuaded to
co-finance the Bank's projects. The Bank would initiate well structured
co-operative arrangements with those institutions in pursuit of this objec-
tive.
6. GENERAL
6.1     The above strategies will be considered flexible, and will be
adjusted and supplemented in the light of prevailing circumstances from r -
to time.



- 52 -
AME 6
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SRI LANKA
OPERATIONS: ACTUAL AND PROJECTED, rY80-FY86
(in millions of Rupees)
Actual                                                                           Projected
FY80       FY81         FY82          Year ending December 31                    FY83     FY84      FY85      FY96
1.  NET APPROVALS
-   Direct Operations:
-         25.5         80.3              Loans in Foreign Exchange             144.0    166.0    191.0    219.0
239.4      204.3        284.8              Rupee Loans                           216.0    248.0    286.0    329.0
239.4      229.8        365.1                                                    360.0    414.0    477.0    548.0
4.5        7.0          9.6           Equity Investments                        18.0      20.0     22.0      24.0
7"7Y       73r7T         7/74            TOTAL DIRECT                               =      Z4175    z7F    3=77
-   Refinance Operations
118.5      102.5         27.7              SMI 1/                                175.0    250.0    114.2    150.0
-          -            -                Other 2/                               30.0      34.5     39.0      43.5
118.5      102.5          27.7             TOTAL REFINANCE                       205.0    284.5    153.2    193.5
-          -            -                Other - Purchase Participation         25.0      28.7     32.5      36.2
362.4      339.3        402.4            TOTAL NET APPROVALS                     608.0    747.2    684.7    801.7
,. ......   ---         .. ..                              ,.,, ,.  .....    .....    .....
2. COMMITMENTS 3/
-   Direct Operations:
-         20.1         25.2              Loans in Foreign Exchange             170.6    159.1    183.3    210.6
157.7      192.2        182.9              Rupee Loans                           337.0    238.7    274.8    316.0
7377        T           7OgiT                                                    3ur77[    a7"7    7v54=      3767
4.5         7.0         2.5              Equity Investments                     19.7      19.4     21.4      23.4
162.2      219.3        210.6           TOTAL COMMITMENTS                        527.3    417.2    479.5    550.0
,., ,, ,,  .......  .....   . ......                                             .....    .....    .....    .....
3. DISBURSEMENTS
-   Direct Operations:
-          -           35.0              Loans in Foreign Exchange              92.5    143.2    170.6    192.7
72.5      201.8        177.9              Rupee Loans                           257.3    262.5    270.2    295.9
72.5      201.8        212.9                                                    349.8    405.7    440.8    488.6
4.4        7.0          1.8              Equity Investments                     10.6      15.6     20.5      22.0
_76V      208.8        M4T[7J             TOTAL DIRECT                          360.4    423    4TT.3    3T51.6
-   Refinance Operations
43.4      101.9         47.6              SMI                                   151.8    217.4    225.6        -
-          -            -                Other                                   9.0      28.3     35.3      40.0
43.4      101.9         47.6              TOTAL REFINANCE                       160.8    245.7    260.9       40.0
-          -            -                Other - Purchase Participation       -T73        26.9    -5"        3.
120.3      310.7                         TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS                    3T-7    693.9    73T7J T    3W
.......... .....,_...........  .....            .......    ----- .......    -----
4. COLLECTIONS
-           7.7         18.0           Direct Loans                             57.2      67.7     81.2      97.4
1.2       13.6         32.7           SMI Refinance                             47.7     69.9      95.9    109.9
-          -            -              Other Refinance                           -         1.3      6.1      13.7
--T72    -71iT       ~-W7             TOTAL COLLECTIONS                       TM7Y    TWgW    18577    77T7T
. ......   .....         ---.....    ---                                                                      .....,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,
1/ Projections include SMI II through 1985, for 1986 SMI III is assumed.
/ NDB has not as yet commenced other refinance operations.
3/ In refinance operations, approvals are equivalent to commitments.
April 1983
ASPID



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SRI LANKA
Action Program and Timetable
Project Identification and Promotion Unit
A. NDB Unit
1.      NDB will establish by end June 1983 a Project Identification and
Business Promotion Unit as a key element in developing its pipeline and in
carrying out its strategy of portfolio diversification. Initially, the unit
would consist of at least three officers, including the unit chief, with
work experience in, or a knowledge encompassing the following subsectors:
agroindustries, light engineering, chemicals, rubber-based industries, coir
industries, textiles and garments, and leather products. The final number
and composition of the unit would be determined with assistance from the
promotion advisor. Initially, an economist and an engineer would constitute
adequate staffing. The unit would be headed by an officer experienced in
project promotion and business development. Staffing of this unit would be
completed by March 31, 1984. The technical assistance under the Industrial
Development Project will include assistance in determining project promo-
tion, subsector analysis, and business development including a detailed work
program for the unit (below).
B. Project and Business Development Advisor
2.      Qualifications.  The advisor to NDB will have a degree in business
administration or industrial economics and have at least eight years work
experience, in project promotion, subsector analysis in business development
in situations similar to Sri Lanka. The advisor will have experience in
developing and implementing project and business promotion programs in other
countries. Experience in agroprocessing and light manufacturing is desire-
able.
3.      Responsibilities.  The following main tasks will be undertaken in
accord with a work program to be agreed by NDB and IDA during the advisor's
first month on the job:
(a) Review NDB's project portfolio to gain a detailed knowledge
of the subsectors and type of projects financed and opera-
tional constraints;
(b) Review the capacity within NDB to undertake promotional work
and recommend staffing numbers and qualifications for the
unit, whether any NDB staff members are suitable, and what
are the qualifications of staff to be recruited from
outside NDB;



ANNEX 7
- 54 -                            Page 2 of 2
(c) Contact major industrialists and ascertain the type of new,
expansion, and modernization projects which are under
consideration;
(d) Liase with investment promotion bodies (FIAC, LIAC, Export
Development Board, and the Industrial Development Board) to
determine projects of current interest to investors;
(e) Provide in-service training to staff of the Project
Identification, Business Promotion and Economics Department
on project identification, business promotion, and subsector
analysis; and
(f) Assist NDB in strengthening its pipeline, in accordance with
objectives outlined in its Policy and Strategy Statements.
4.      Assignment Duration and Reporting.  The advisor will remain with NDB
for a 12 month continuous period, and will prepare quarterly progress
reports, and an interim and final report.



ANNEX 8
- 55 -
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SRI LANKA
Sumarized Income and Cash Flow Statements
(in millions of Rupees)
Actual                                                                                 Projected
FY80     FY81      FY82          Year Endins December 31                             FY83      FY84      FY85     FY86
1.  INCOME
4.3     32.6      73.5          From project lending                               126.5    206.3    298.1    371.6
84.9     86.2      78.4          From term deposits                                  75.5      52.6      46.1      58.8
1.1      1.3       2.5          Other project related                                3.4       4.3       4.7      5.5
-        -         -            Other                                                0.2       0.2       0.3      0.3
90.3    120.1    154.4           TOTAL INCOME                                       205.6    263.4    349.2    436.2
2. EXPENSES
5.8      8.4      10.5          Administrative Expenses                             17.8      22.1      26.9     32.7
0.5      7.0      18.5          Interest on borrowings                              35.4      71.4    124.0    171.0
0.3      0.4       0.5          Depreciation                                         0.5       0.6       1.7      1.9
0.2      -         0.2          Other                                                -         -        -         -
6.8     15.8      29.7          TOTAL EXPENSES                                      53.7      94.1    152.6    205.6
83.5    104.3    124.7      3.  NET PROFIT                                          151.9    169.3    196.6    230.6
80.0     90.0    110.0           Less Appropriations: General Reserves                -       109.5    125.5    145.0
3.9     10.3      10.3                                Bad Debts Reserve             16.4     20.4      23.3      24.6
-        -         -                                   Equity Fund                 100.0       -        -         -
-        -         -                                   Dividends                    22.5      22.5     22.5      22.5
=(0.4)     4.0       4.4                                                              13.0      16.9      25.3     38.5
3.9      3.7       7.7          Earnings retained in previous year                  12.1     25.1      42.0      67.3
3.5      7.7      12.1          RETAINED EARNINGS                                   25.1      42.0     67.3    105.8
,-___ _____ ___ _.,. ..... ..~~~~~~~~~~~... ..    ----
4. CASH INFLOW
111.3    143.1          Net profit before interest                         187.3    240.8    320.7    401.6
0.4      0.5          Add:  non-cash adjustment                            0.5       0.6       1.7       1.9
1117    143 6                                                              1797.    7241.4    322.4    403.5
21.3     50.6          Collections 1/                                     105.0    139.4    185.1    224.3
133.0    194.2          Net cash generation                                292.8    380.8    506.5    627.8
101.2    132.0          Borrowings                                         220.0    347.6    537.2    296.0
118.2    (64.2)         Draw-down of term deposits                          75.4      90.0   (105.1)   (20.2)
-        1.1          PDF: Grant from UNDP                                 0.7       2.0       3.3      3.5
352.4    263.2          TOTAL CASH INFLOW                                  588.9    820.4    942.9    907.1
5. CASH OUTFLOW
-        -            Debt Service: Principal                             25.0      38.8      48.3    112.1
-        0.9                         Interest                             41.5      33.0      48.9    195.1
*        0.9676                                                           66 5       F~ -rrna   ~7   307 2
31,1.1    263.0         Disbursements                                      536.4    698.3    757.7    588.9
0.5      0.4          Capital expenditure                                  2.1       1.0      10.5      2.3
-        -            Equity Fund Investment                               -        50.0      50.0      -
40.7     (1.2)         Other: Change in Net Current Asset                 (16.1)    (0.8)    27.6         8.6
352.3    263.1          TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                                 588.9    821.3    943.0    907.0
-        -             lDEBT SERVICE COVERAGE RATIO 2/                     3.8       4.2       3.9       2.0
0.8      0.9       0.8          Administrative Expenses/Total                        1.1       1.1      1.0       1.0
Assets (X)
11.4     13.3      13.9          Net Profit/Average Equity (X)                       14.7      14.5     14.9      15.2
1/ Assuming full collection of overdues.
2/ Based on full collection. The ratio reflects the general nature of NDB's borrowings--
unmatched repayments permitting the revolving of funds.



- 56 -
ANNEX 9
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF SRI LANKA
SUMMARIZED BALWTCE SHEET
(in millions of Rupees)
Actual                                                                                Projected
FY80       FY81       FY82               Year ending December 31                  FY83       FY84       FY85        FY86
PORTFOLIO ASSETS
72.5      267.0      462.6      Direct Loans                                      779.5    1175.1    1596.8    2048.2
42.2      133.8      149.6      Refinance Loans                                   256.5      409.6      544.9       431.7
4.4       11.4       13.3      Equity Investments                                 23.8       39.4       59.9        81.9
119.1     412.2       625.5                                                       1059.8    1624.1    2201.6    2561.8
INVESTMENTS
481.8      399.7      455.6      Term Deposits                                     366.0      255.0       362.5      382.1
-          -          -        Equity Fund                                         -         50.0      100.0       100.0
481.8      399.7      455.6                                                        366.0       305.0      462.5      482.1
OTHER ASSETS
150.0      150.0      150.0      Pro Notes from shareholders                       150.0      150.0      150.0       150.0
2.0        2.1        2.0      Fixes assets net of Depreciation                    3.6        4.0       12.8        13.2
4.3        6.0       12.4      Net Current Assets                                (14.9)    (22.7)      (25.6)      (35.7)
156.3      13.-T      164.4                                                        138.7      131.3    -137.2       T127.S
757.2      970.0    1245.5       TOTAL ASSETS                                     1564.5    2060.4    2801.3    3171.4
.....       .....    ......                                                       ......    ......    ......
Financed by:
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
600.0      600.0      600.0      Share Capital                                     600.0      600.0       600.0      600.0
128.9      229.3      349.6      General and Special Reserves                      466.0      595.9      744.7   , 914.3
3.5        7.7       12.1      Retained Earnings                                  25.1       42.0       67.3       105.8
732.4      837.0      961.7      SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS                              1091.1    1237.9    1412.0    1620.1
-          -          1.1      PDF Grant from UNDP                                 1.8        3.7         6.3        8.7
732.4      837.0      962.8      TOTAL EQUITY                                     1092.9    1241.6    1418.3    1628.8
LONG TERM DEBT
-          -         38.0      Foreign Exchange for: Direct Operations           115.7      256.0      430.5      634.6
24.8      133.0      206.8                               SMI Refinance            288.9      488.7      763.3       643.0
-          -         37.9      Central Bank Refinance                             67.0       74.1       89.2       105.0
-          -          -        Other Loans                                         -          -        100.0       160.0
24.8      133.0      282.7      TOTAL DEBT                                        471.6      815.8    1383.0    1542.6
757.2      970.0    1245.5       TOTAL FUNDING                                    1564.5    2060.4    2801.3    3171.4
.....  ........ ....     ......     ... . ..........                                         ...... .        .......    ......
1:29      1:6.2      1:3.4      DEBT:  EQUITY RATIO                               1:2.3      1:1.5      1:1.0       1:1.0
April 1983
ASPID



ANNEX 10
- 57 -                              Page 1 of 6
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
Financial and Operational Strategy of the DFCC
For Period 1982 - 1986
BACKGROUND
1.0     The last statement of strategy for the DFCC was formulated in 1975.
The environment in which the DFCC operated changed drastically in 1977/78
with the new economic policies of the Government, in particular, the ready
convertibility of Rupees into foreign currency together with liberalization
of imports. On the one hand the construction, trade and service sectors
expanded very much more than the import-substitution oriented manufacturing
sector, which was the traditional area of DFCC operations. On the other
hand, the financial environment within which DFCC operated changed greatly
with the creation of the National Development Bank of Sri Lanka and the
availability of long term finance and other financial services from the
commercial banks. All these factors resulted in the DFCC losing the near
monopoly of foreign currency resources for the private sector, which it
enjoyed hitherto. Stated here is the revised strategy based on the changed
circumstances.
1.1     Given below is the operational and financial strategy of the DFCC
for the next 3 to 4 years. This strategy has been influenced among others
by:
(a) Plans and policies of the Government for economic and
social development;
(b) Reasonable estimates of the scope of activities including
investments possible by a development bank such as DFCC; and
(c) A realistic estimate of the competitive business environment
in the financial sector and the resource possibilities for
the DFCC.
MARKET STRATEGY
2.0     Efficiency of Service.  The overall marketing strategy of the DFCC
would be to strive for an advantageous market differentiation vis-a-vis
other larger financial institutions based on factors of speedy and efficient
service, flexibility and greater technical know-how and expertise in project
based lending, and simultaneously exerting its development banking orienta-
tion. At the same time, greater emphasis will be laid on cooperation with
other financial institutions both local and foreign through consortium
arrangements. Also DFCC will continue to concentrate its lending operations
almost exclusively in supporting the expansion and development of the



- 58 -                               ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 6
private sector. In this respect, DFCC is in an advantageous position due to
the special relationships and understanding it has developed over the last
25 years of successful involvement with the private sector. It will strive
to improve the present speed of operations and decision making.
2.1     Project Promotion.  In order to diversify its portfolio and identify
new projects, DFCC will expand its project promotion efforts and will create
a project promotion unit adequately staffed to actively seek out project
proposals and identify promising ones in accordance with the priorities
stated in para. 3.0. The officers will contact potential sponsors, and
support institutions, screen project approval lists of the approval agencies
such as FIAC and LIAC and with the appraisal department, recommend attrac-
tive projects for incorporation into the DFCC pipeline. DFCC will also
assist in the promotion of joint ventures between local and foreign
entrepreneurs.
2.2     Economic and Sectoral Analysis.  As an integral feature of its
promotion efforts, DFCC with will undertake more detailed economic analysis
of sectors and subsectors and will undertake selected sector and subsector
studies in areas of importance to DFCC operations and potential for future
projects. Light engineering, agro-industries, rubber-based industries are
possibilities for analysis. The economic and sectoral analysis would com-
plement DFCC's promotion efforts and improve its understanding of the policy
environment within which DFCC operates. Project briefs covering a range of
subsectors will be prepared drawing upon the sectoral analysis and DFCC's
project experience.
2.3     Diversification of Services.  While project based lending would
remain at the centre of operations, DFCC will make an effort to diversify
its services to the private sector clients in keeping with their needs.
DFCC will undertake equipment term-financing with accelerated appraisal to
compete with equipment leasing and services provided by other financial
institutions. Provision of advisory services, investment banking and
related services and equipment leasing are also some areas under considera-
tion.
2.4     Manpower.   Since the primary requirement for such a market strategy
is qualified, competent and highly motivated staff, DFCC will strive to
train its existing staff on an on-going basis, and effectively motivate them
with a competitive package of incentives. DFCC will continue to place high
priority on training, particularly, on project development, assessment of
development aspects, economic analysis of projects and project supervision.
SECTORAL PRIORITIES
3.0     Industry sectors which would receive special attention from the DFCC
may be broadly enumerated as under:



_ 59 -                              ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 6
3.1     Export-Oriented Industries.  Viable export-oriented industries, in
particular those making use of Sri Lanka's labour and raw material
advantages with high value added. DFCC will encourage foreign private
collaboration in those projects where technological know-how, product
quality and marketing channels are key factors in performance.
3.2     Resource-Based Industries.  Projects utilizing local raw materials
such as mineral resources, rubber, coconut, wood products, essential oils,
etc. In pursuance of this, DFCC will support projects in the agricultural
and livestock sectors ungradas a means of producing the raw materials
needed.
3.3     Import Substitution.  Efficient import substitution industries
considered essential to the economy are those in which there is a compara-
tive cost advantage, those which have considerable forward and backward
linkages and those with high employment potential. Engineering projects
would be given priority as they utilize DFCC's relatively strong technical
appraisal skills and have strong links to other industrial developments.
3.4     Pioneering Projects.  DFCC with its well established capabilities in
the technical evaluation of projects and with experienced engineering staff,
will make a special effort to identify, sponsor and support pioneering type
ventures, both in terms of technology as well as product/services.
3.5     Modernization.  Investment in modernization, expansion, energy
ccnservation, etc. of existing projects which would result in their tech-
nological upgradation, increasing of efficiency in terms of cost and
quality. The DFCC considers modernization vital for the survival of exist-
ing industries in view of the open economic policies and competition from
imports. If appropriate, DFCC will also endeavour to apply technologies
which are adapted to the circumstances.
3.6     Replacements with more modern equipment, balancing of equipment,
improvement in energy utilization and equipment to ensure continuity of
production will yield substantial benefits at minimal investments and in the
least gestation periods. However, DFCC will not finance the creation of new
capacity in those sectors where existing units have significant
under-utilization of capacity except in cases where there is special jus-
tification.
3.7     Service Industries.  Viable service type industries which are impor-
tant to the needs of the economy in as far as the absence of them will
hamper the growth of other sectors, will also be assisted by the DFCC. One
of the main criteria for selection of service industries will be high
employment potential.



ANNEX 10
- 60 -                             Page 4 of 6
3.8     Tourism.  In tourist-sector projects DFCC assistance in terms of
percentage of the portfolio is already somewhat high; therefore, tourism
loans will be limited to maintain a maximum of 30% of DFCC's loan portfolio.
The main priorities will be to finance the capacity expansion, upgrading and
increasing the efficiency of the large number of existing clients. New
hotel projects assisted by DFCC would be very few and mainly those in the
medium-class and those which are clearly profitable with a high ratio of
equity. Even in such cases the emphasis will be on joint-financing with
other financial institutions.
3.9     Criteria of Project Appraisal.  DFCC would employ the standard
guidelines for project appraisal for development banks. Calculations of the
financial rate of return, which should be at least equal to or above the
opportunity cost of capital, should be performed for all projects. For all
projects involving foreign exchange subloans of above US$250,000 equivalent,
DFCC should calculate economic rates of return. DFCC would not normally
finance any projects with rates of return of less than 10%. Where these
rates cannot be calculated (e.g. BMR projects investments which cannot be
separated from the existing company) DFCC will calculate the domestic
resource cost ratio (DRC) as a key element of the project's economic jus-
tification.  WrhL:e possible, DFCC should calculate both the ERR and the DRC.
PRIORITIES ACCORDING TO SIZE, OWNERSHIP, DISPERSION
4.0     Small Industry Sector.  The DFCC has so far financed about 10% of
its portfolio in the small and medium scale industries (SMI) sector. This
ratio is presently considered appropriate taking into account that financing
of the SMI sector is also largely done by the commercial banks through their
branch networks and considering that the DFCC has no branches outside
Colombo and is unable to provide sufficient working capital and other bank-
ing services. These factors inhibit wide-spread assistance by DFCC to this
sector. Despite these constraints, DFCC would continue to assist its size-
able number of existing clients numbering about 200 to expand and make the
projects more viable and also be prepared to consider new avenues for SMI
financing. While future lending to SMIs will be mainly to the larger end of
the spectrum, special emphasis will be given to identify new but viable
schemes and to support new and small entrepreneurs especially those with
technical expertise. DFCC will also strive to develop schemes for sub-
contracting, franchising, servicing, etc. in association with larger
businesses, whereby market and technical assistance would be assured.
4.1     Broad-Basing of Ownership.  With a view to ensure the growth of a
healthy private sector which has long term growth prospects and in accord-
ance with the policies of the Government to develop a capital market, the
DFCC will accord priority to assisting public-quoted and broad-based com-
panies as compared to closely-held private companies and partnerships. DFCC
will therefore strive to encourage existing close-held companies to become
broad-based and publicly quoted. With respect to the financing of
joint-ventures, DFCC will pay attention to an adequate participation of the
local entrepreneurs in the ownership of those projects.



- 61 -                             ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 6
4.2     Geographical Dispersion of Industry.  Although geographical disper-
sion has been a consistent objective of every government, industry still
tended to concentrate in the Colombo District. The reasons have been mainly
economic and operational. Radical changes to this pattern cannot be
expected in the next 3 years, however, DFCC will accord high priority to
those viable projects which are located outside the Colombo Region.
ADVISORY SERVICES AND MERCHANT BANKING
5.0     DFCC in the past has assisted clients in the formulation of projects
through its appraisal process and in solving some operational problems
through its implementation process.  With the "open economic policies" and
consequent competitive business environment, as well as the rapid expansion
and diversification that takes place, several of its clients are faced with
problems which they find difficult to tackle on their own. In such cases
DFCC will be called upon to provide advice and guidance on financial, tech-
nical, managerial and organizational matters. This would also be in the
interest of the DFCC, considering that some of those projects would likely
be in arrears and may have inadequate returns from share investments. DFCC
will strive to rehabilitate weak units as well as assisting clients to
expand, diversify and increase efficiency.
5.1     With the passing of the new Companies Law, establishment of a stock
exchange, incentives to businesses to become quoted public companies,
rationalization of the interest rate structure, and the paucity of rupee
resources, it is expected that there will be an increasing need for public
share issue management, underwriting, assistance in mergers and corporate
advice.
5.2     DFCC will draw on the experience of all departments, as well as from
outside consultants, particularly in project development.
RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
6.0     DFCC expects that one of the major problems it will face in the next
three years will be the problem of obtaining financial resources appropriate
for the needs of its clients. This will be particularly, important with
respect to local Rupee currency resources. A further constraint will be the
debt/equity ratios it is expected to maintain. DFCC has increased its
ordinary share capital from Rs 24 million to Rs 100 million, which effec-
tively increases its exposure limits for investment in a given company, as
contained in the Policy Statement.



ANNEX 10
- 62 -                             Page 6 of 6
INVESTMENTS
7.0     DFCC is conscious of the fact that it will have to pay a reasonable
dividend to shareholders on its after tax profits in order to expand its
equity base, on which depends its scale of lending. Consequently, it will
need to ensure an adequate spread between lending and borrowing rates and
also actively seek profitable investments, within the overall developmental
objectives. It will invest its "free" funds in such a way as to ensure
maximum returns as well as compensate for the erosion of the equity base due
to inflation, keeping in mind its overall development objectives.
7.1     DFCC will not normally invest in preference shares.  DFCC's invest-
ment strategy will continue to be prudent at all times and will reflect its
exposure limits contained in the statement of Business Policies.
ARREARS REDUCTION PROGRAM
8.0     DFCC is concerned about its increasing level of arrears and has
created a special problem projects cell in the Implementation Department to
focus attention and efforts in this area. More frequent plant visits and
greater analysis of repayment capacity of clients will be a regular feature
of the work of this cell. Problem cases will be considered for rehabilita-
tion by the Advisory Division. DFCC will be more firm in calling up loans
and taking legal action, when legal action is appropriate.
8.1     DFCC will formulate an annual collection program with recovery
targets and will monitor its collection performance in light of these tar-
gets. DFCC will place the highest priority on project supervision in order
to prevent increase in its arrears situation.



SRI LANKA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
SUMMARY bF OPERATIONS, FY78/79 TO FY82/83
(Rs million)
Share Investments           Share Investwents
Local Currency            Foreign Currency                 Local                       Foreign                      Total
No. of                    No. of                     No. of                      No. of                       No. of
Projects    Amount        Projects    Amount         Projects    Amount          Projects       Amount        Projects      Amount
Gross Approvals
FY78/79                  83         33,034          71        105,723          12         8,418             11        10,591           177       157,766
FY79/80                  43         18,039          33         53,655           7         4,680             5          7,950           88         84,324
*FY80/81                   90       114,137           16        65,500           10        7,025              1         2,000           117        188,662
FY81/82                  93        199,510          18         39,965           3         5,000             -            -             114       244,475
FY82/83                   12        27,507          16         22,625           12        5,923              -           -              40        56,055
Cancellations
FY78/79                  +3         +5,257          19         33,842           -          +200              4         5,113            26        44,412
FY79/80                   6         +2,780          22         34,681           2           775              2         2,615            32        40,851         1
FY80/81                    7        +3,383           2            254            1          956              -           -              10          4,593        0%
FY81/82                  +4        +15,050          13         47,943            1          750             -            -              18        63,743
FY82/83                   8          6,392            1         1,690           -            -               -            -              9          8,082
Net Approvals
FY78/79                  86         38,291          52         71,881          12         8,618              7         5,478           157       124,268
FY79/80                   6         20,819          11         18,974           5         3,905             3          5,336            25        49,034
FY80/81                  83        110,754          14         65,246           9         5,069              1         2,000           107       183,069
FY81/82                  97        214,560           5         -7,978           2         4,250             -            -             104       210,832
FY82/83                   4         21,115          15         20,935          12         5,923             -            -              31        47,973
Net Comitments
FY78/79                  75         35,062          39         62,069           9         7,618             8          7,134           131       111,883
FY79/80                  26         17,239          27         31,593           1          -650             -          1,500           54         49,682
FY80/81                  70         79,296          16         38,892           6         4,443              1         4,000            93       126,631
FY81/82                  83        166,698          19         32,493           3           ?               -            -             105           7
FY82/83                  15         37,905          14         20,873          12         5,923             -            _              41        64,701
Disbursements
FY78/79                             16,024                     37,207                    10,118                        7,874                      71,223
FY79/80                             30,590                     53,393                     7,657                        3,850                      95,490
FY80/81                             57,755                     51,022                     5,860                        1,915                     116,552
FY81/82                            110,790                     41,834                     7,076                        2,000                      161,700
FY82/83                            111,046                     30,231                     5,447                          -                       104,711
Undisbursed
Commitment                         141,061                     12,642                     1,877                                                  155,580
April 1983
ASPID



DEVU.OflT F*UQ CPOUO I(U OF CKYI0
SYTOSIS OF 15 "A" S     If'0JSK    FIA     U     IT 742-Cl
Share                                                                                    _   c
Project      Subproject    Capital Cost    Subloan Anowt    Investunt            8        reakeven   Ecoodc Late          Direct       Inwet mute
Sector               3Vpe         Number           USS        _            US$  U               Market        Point         of hetura  8_l           t        JoAb    )    C_ t .
Food                    Biscuit           A-S         1.247.000          705.128             -         Dometic          442          175              109           11.000           -LI
Factory
Electrical Equipment   Replacement        A-6            81 793           $1 793             -          Doatic           - LI        311              -                -             -
Machine
Rubber                  Thread            A-7           "1.000           45D.077           15S.477     Foreign          42Z          28.SS           110 l8.60                      3.56
Factory
Printing                Replacement       A-5           171.000          126,966             -         Domaxtic         - L'        5SO               -                -             - Li
Machines
Textiles                Expwaion          A-12          406.000          2464859            48.077     Domatic          38U          45S              SO             8.M            9.5
Textiles                Expansion         A-11        8.422.000          516.U2            129.115     Do_satic          - /I        192            597             14.800          8.5
Garints                 New Factory       A-1           874.000          398.047           130.292     Foreign          36S          462            305              1.710          6.7
Auto Engineering        Expansion         A-2           132,600           92.610            32.510     DSomatic          - LI        16.95 L2         10            12.5"0           - LI      '
Textiles                Expansion         A-3           275D000           31,684            32.510     Dometic          595           -LI              - LI            -Li             L1
Engineering             Spring            A-4           303.699          111.411            56.426     Domatic          282          37Z              70             3.040          $..1
Factory
Food                    Soft Drink        A-9         1.628.0D0          704,143              -        Do_etic          6Z           21 S2             - LI            - LI            L I
Plant
Chemicals               Polythene         A-10          119.000          107.484              -        Domatic           - L1        26 22            - LI             - LI            LI
Sack Plant
Tourim                  Mmw Motel         A-13        3.730.D00          370.000,          255,000     Foreign          412          21.S L2       200             1U.650         11.35
Textiles                Expas ion         A-15        5.196K000          512,800           128.200     Domatic          472          322             204            25.U0          18.55
Spiuning Mill
Agroindustry            Activated         A-14        1.730.000          655,731              -        Foreig           401          295              40            U3250           U
Carbon
Expansion
I/  Not calculated.
2/  Fincial rate of return.



- 65 -
ANNEX 13
SRI LAMNA
DEVELOPMXT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
Actual and Projected Incoue Statements, FY79-87
(rs million)
Actual                                                                                   Projected
FY79    FY80       Fy81     FY82           Year ending March 31                      FY83     FY84      FY85      F86      FY87
INCOME
Interest Incone:
7.3     25.8     38.1    .62.9              Rupee Loans                              91.6     99.4    103.3    109.2    116.5
8.8      -         -        -               Foreign Currency Loane                              -        -         -        -
Dividends:
0.5      0.S       1.3      2.9             Ordinary Share.                           3.4       3.9      4.8       5.7       6.7
1.6      2.0       3.4      2.7             Preference Shares                         2.7       2.2      1.7       1.2      0.7
1.3      0.6      1.5       1.4           Appraisal Fees                              0.5      9.8       0.9       1.0      1.0
0.2      0.3       0.5      0.5           Legal Fees                                  0.7       0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4
1.9      2.1      1.9       1.4           Fixed Deposit Interest                      3.3      3.9       4.3       4.8      5.3
0.1      0.1       0.1      0.2           Staff Loan Interest                         0.2       0.3      0.3       0.4      0.5
0.2      0.3       0.4      0.9           Miscellaneous Income                        0.2      o.i       0.2       0.3      0.4
21.9     31Y      TUr2g    5T"                                                      TT    Trr           TI'        T=D     13T.5
EXPENSES
Interest Expenses:
3.4      3.3       4.6     12.5             Refinance Loans                          21.3     28.0      29.7      29.5     28.9
-                                          N.D.B. Loan.                              0.7       0.6      0.5       0.4      0.3
0.2      0.9      0.9       0.8             N.S.B. Loan.                              2.4      2.0       1.6       1.2      0.8
1.1      2.0       2.4      2.9             Bank of Ceylon Loans                      0.2      0.1       0.1      -         -
0.7      0.5      0.3       0.2             IBRD Loans               *               10.5      9.0       7.4       5.7      4.3
3.6      6.8      9.5      10.8             IDA Loan.                                12.2     14.5      14.7      12.8     10.7
2.3      3.7       5.2      8.8             ADB (1) Loan                              -        -         -         -        -
-                          0.1             ADB (2) and other Future Loans            0.2      0.2       0.3       0.3      0.4
irn       _        22.9   ~ rr                             ~T3                                  55.2     TFr        _       62.5
10.6     14.5     24.3      36.8           GROSS PROFIT                               55.1     55.9      54.2      61.4     69.0
Less:
2.8      3.6       5.0      7.0           Overhead                                    7.5      9.4      11.7      14.7     18.3
0.2      0.2       0.2      0.3           Depreciation                                0.3      0.3       1.0       1.0      1.1
Provision for Doubtful Loans
0.9      1.5       2.4      3.0             and Inve* tmnt.                          22.5       2.7      1.6       1.8      2.1
TTg     Y7      T16.7      26.5          Profit Before Tax                          24.8      43.5     319.      43.9      47.6
2.5      2.8       4.2      8.2           Income Tax                                 12.8     19.5      18.2      19.8     21.5
4.4      6.4      12.5     18.3           NET INCOME                                 12.0     24.0      21.7      24.1     26.1
APPROPRIATIONS
-        -        -        -             Share Issue Expenses                        -        -         -         -        -
0.9      1.3       2.5      3.8           Speci-l Raserve                             1.8      -         -         -        -
2.0      3.7       7.7      4.4           General Reserve                             1.0     17.0      15.0      16.0     19.0
1.2      1.5       2.3      2.8           Dividends (Gross)                           3.1      7.2       7.2       7.2      7.2
RATIOS
1.3      1.2       1.2      1.2           Debt Service Coverage Ratio                 1.3       1.1      1.2       1.4      1.3
Aduinistrative Expense/Average
1.4      1.4       1.6      1.6             Total Assets (X)                          1.3      1.4       1.8       2.1      2.6
16.7     18.8      27.5     31.2           Net Profit/Average Equity (X)              13.9     21.1      16.8      16.6     16.0
7.5      8.0       9.6     12.0           Rate of Dividends (X)                      12.0     12.0      12.0      12.0     12.0
Dividends as Percentage Net
27.2     23.4      18.5     15.7             Earnings (Payout Ratio)                  25.8     30.0      33.1      29.9     27.6
Debt Service Coverage Ratios                >
April 1983
ASPID



- 66 -
ANNEX 14
SRI LANKA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements, FY82-87
(Rs million)
Actual                  Projected
Year ended March 31                       FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
Sources:
Operations:
Profit before Tax & Depreciation
A Provision for Loans                    22.8    43.7    46.6    42.5    46.5    50.7
Rupee Sources:
Loan Repayments                          31.0    60.9    68.5    81.8    89.8    86.8
Redemption of RCP Shares                  3.3      6.5     6.5      6.5      6.5     6.5
Sale of Ordinary Shares                   1.0      1.0     2.0      3.0      4.0     4.0
Staff Loan Repayments                     0.1
Refinance from Central Bank             107.7    95.8    47.1       3.0      4.0     4.0
Share Issue                               -       30.0     -        -       -        -
Decrease in Bank Balance                  1.0
Increase in Sundry Creditors              2.1    (0.2)    2.1       1.9     0.2      0.7
Withdrawals from IDA/ADB                 97.9    35.2    49.3    52.3    60.3    64.3
266.9   272.9   222.1   216.3   238.8   245.8
Uses:
Disbursements:
Loans                                   201.0   173.7   102.9    79.7    91.4    97.3
Ordinary Shares                           5.4      3.4     7.2    10.3    10.5    10.8
RCP Shares                                7.3
Share Issue Expenses                      -
Repayment of Borrowings:
IBRD                                      1.2      1.0     0.7      0.4     0.2      0.1
IDA                                      12.0    18.8    19.4    21.0    20.3    16.5
ADB (1)                                   7.7    11.6    11.4    11.0       9.6      6.7
ADB (2) and Future Borrowings             -        -       7.5    15.0    15.0    15.0
Central Bank Refinance                   10.0    21.4    22.2    35.0    40.6    44.0
Other Local Borrowings                    3.7      4.3     3.9      3.9     3.9      3.9
Loan from Government                      1.1      1.1     1.1      1.1      1.1     1.1
Capital Expenditure                          0.3     0.3    12.5      0.5      0.6     0.7
Staff Loans                                 1.0      0.6     0.8      0.9      1.1     1.5
Special Reserve Fund                        2.5      3.8      1.9     -       -        -
Tax Paid                                    8.2    15.0    17.3    18.8    19.2    20.8
Dividends                                   2.3      2.9      3.1     7.2      7.2     7.2
Increase in Debtors                         3.0      5.0     8.6      2.1     4.4      5.0
Increase in Bank Balance                    -       10.0     1.6      9.4    13.7    15.2
266.9   272.9   222.1   216.3   238.8   245.8
April 1983



-6-ANNE 15
- 67 
SRI LANKA
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
Actual and Projected Balance Sheets, FY79-87
Ms hlion)
Actual                                                                                      Projected
FY79     FY80      FY81      FY82           Year endina March 31                        FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86      FY87
ASSETS
164.5   227.6    314.9    436.5             Loans                                       549.3    603.7    601.6    613.2    633.7
13.5    16.9      17.5      22.8           Ordinary Shares                             25.2      30.4      37.7      44.2      51.0
28.9    35.0      37.9      39.1           Preference Shares                            32.6      26.0      19.5      13.0       6.5
206.9   279.5    370.3    498-6                                                         607.1    660.1    658.8    670.4    691.2
4.1     5.6       7.4       9.9           Less:  Provisions                            28.4     31.1      32.7      34.5      36.6
202.8   T3.9    362.9    488.5                                                         578.7    629.0    626.1    635.9    653.6
3.5     4.4       5.7       8.2           Special Reserve Fund                         12.0     13.9      13.9      13.9      13.9
1.0     1.1       1.8       2.4           Loans to Staff                               3.0       3.8       4.8       5.9       7.4
0.8     0.8       0.9       1.2           Fixed Assets                                  1.2     13.3      12.8      12.4      12.0
33-     6.3       8.4      11.8                                                        16.2      31.0     31.5      32.2      33.3
CURREYT ASS!TS
5.8    11.7      13.6      22.6           Debtors Deposits and Accrued Income         27.6      36.2      38.3      42.7      47.6
10.0     5.0       4.0       4.0           Temporary Investnnts                         4.0      24.0      24.0      14.0       4.0
_       _        (3.4)      6.8           Cash/Bank Balances (Net)                     16.8     18.5      27.9      41.6      56.8
15.8    16.7      14.2      33.4                                                       48.4      7ITT      90.2      98.3    108.4
223.9   296.9    385.5    533.7             TOTAL ASSLTS                               643.3    738.7    747.8    766.4    806.3
16.0    23.5      24.0      24.0           Share Capital                               60.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
4.4     5.7       8.2      12.0           Special Reserve                             13.9      13.9      13.9      13.9      13.9
7.1    10.8      18.5      23.0           General and Building Reserve                30.0      47.0      62.0      78.0      85.0
0.4     0.2       0.2       0.3           Profit and Loss Balance                      h.3       1.1       0.6       1.6       1.5
28.0    40.2      50.9      59.3           TOTAL EQUITY                               105.2    162.0    176.0    193.5    212.4
16.0    16.0      16.0      14.9           Loan frou Goverrn-nt                        13.9      12.8      11.7      10.7       9.6
45.8    43.7      73.6    139.2            Central Bank Rafinance                     213.6    238.5    231.8    222.4    211.3
11.3    28.6      28.7      26.5           Bank Loans                                  21.9      18.0      14.2      10.2       6.2
10.0     7.1       3.8       2.8           IBRD Loans                                   1.8       1.1       0.7       0.4       0.3
64.8   106.0    126.6    141.2             IDA Loans                                  122.4    103.0       81.9      61.6      45.1
35.1    46.8      70.6    119.5            ADS First Loan                             143.2    165.8    148.4    123.8    102.1
New Foreign Currency Loans
-       -         -         -               and ADS Second Loan                        -         -         -         -         -
183.0   248.2    319.3    444.0             TOTAL LONG-TERM DEBT                       516.8    539.2    488.7    429.1    374.6
2.9     3.6       4.2       7.7           Taxes Payable                                5.6       7.8       7.3       7.9       8.5
6.5     4.2       8.8      12.8           Sundry Creditors                            12.6      14.7      16.6      16.9      17.5
1.2     0.7       2.3       2.9           Dividends                                    3.1       7.2       7.2       7.2       7.2
2.3     -         _ -                     Bank Overdraft (Net)
12.9  8- 5    -5 5.3        23.5                                                       2L.3      29.7      31.1      32.0      33.2
223.9   296.9    385.5    533.7             TOTAL LIABILITIES                          643.3    738.7    747.8    766.4    806.3
6.53:1  6.17:1   6.27:1   6.7:1             Debt:Equity Ratio                          4.91:1   4.48:1   3.96:1   3.52:1   3.19:1
April 1983
ASPID



SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Characteristics and Performance of MISA Corporations, GOBUs, and Companies (1981)
Capital
Invested                                                                                         Return
in        Employ-                                                  x         Commercial   on Capital in
Production    ment        Production        Sales      Exports    Local Raw    Projects    Manufacturing
Name of Corporation                 (Rs '000)   (No Jobs)   (Rs '000)        (Rs '000)   (Rs '000)   Materials    (Rs '000)            (Z)
Ceylon Leather Products                29,528      1,062          41,542        31,674         2,490        60          2,590          8.7
Ceylon Plywoods                        77,503      3,519          14,359       135,137          -           80          9,146         11.8
National Paper                        376,060      4,383         432,933       419,971          -           40             41          0.01
Paranthan Chemicals                    27,604        531          34,712        34,712          -           19          1,142          4.2
State Fertilizer 1/                      N/A        963            -             -             -                     517,960           -
Ceylon Petroleum                      216,300      5,809      10,004,643   11,569,625   1,634,726            -        165,300           -
Sri Lanka Tyre                         58,205      1,888         232,378       269,848           612        22         11,120         19.1
Ceylon Ceramics                       190,763      6,136         199,079       219,085         2,840        60         34,097         18.0                           
Ceylon Cement                         728,179      7,610         932,854       879,946          -           39          7,405           -
Ceylon Steel                          290,611      2,214         477,589       449,479          -            2          5,501          1.9
State Hardware                         40,565      1,439          46,955         44,443         -           36         -3,048           -
National Salt                          54,980      1,489          43,824        '44,020          489       100         23,893         43.5
State Mining and Mineral               97,024      2,430         169,625       114,840       100,918       100         44,286         45.6
Ceylon Mineral Sands                  130,830        509         111,683        51,114        32,174       100         18,548          0.1
Subtotal, Corporations          2,318,092    39,982        12,742,176   13,814,715   1,773,799                    320,026
Public Sector COS and GOBUS 3/
Leyland, United Motorways                            532             N/A            N/A         -          N/A         17,681          N/A
Lanka Porcelain                        30,360        709          74,713         79,713       64,047        41         14,112          0.5
Ceylon Oxygen                          26,527        381          12,538         64,613         -            8          4,315         16.0
Lanka Walltiles                                       -              N/A                        -           19                          -
Sri Lanka Tobacco                       7,433        959          77,708        88,792          -           26         -1,923           -
National Packing                        3,009        455 2/        1,849         13,995         -          N/A         -5,705           -
Gas and Water Co.                      14,368        412          42,002         68,229         -          100         -1,547           -
SLIDC                                                N/A             N/A          1,593         -          N/A
Vijaya Tiles                                         272              N/A           N/A         -          N/A         -  214
Noorani Tiles                                        398              N/A           N/A         -          N/A          2,637
1/ The Fertilizer Manufacturing Corporation commenced operations in December, 1981.
2/ Reduced from level of 5,190 in 1981.
3/ Not totalled because of amount of data not available.



- 69 -                                  ANNEX 17
Sri Lanka                                 Page 1 of 4
Industrial Development Project
Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs (MISA)
Program to Improve Public Enterprise Performance
Outline of Implementation Plan
(July 1, 1983 - December 31, 1986)
Major Actions                             Dates
Organization and Staffing
. Form Public Enterprise Cell in MISA            July 1983
(Composition in Attachment 1)
. Recruit chief advisors for MISA                August-September, 1983
(Attachment 2 contains terms of
reference).
. Arrival and stay of Chief Advisors             October 1983-October 1985
*Establishment and first meeting of              by September 31, 1983
the Coordinating Committee (Composition
in Attachment 1).
. Preparation of year 1 Action Program           by November 31, 1983
Corporate Plans
. Preparation of skeletal corporate plans    July-December 1983
by all Corporations and COBUs 1/
Preparation of detailed corporate plans 1/ July-December 1983
by at least five corporations probably:
Cement, Mineral Sands, Ceramics,
Hardware and Tyre
1/  Major elements of the corporate plans (covering a rolling two year
period) will be: (a) key performance targets, concentrating on
improvements in public profits, and isolating social objectives;
(b) criterian values which constitute acceptable and outstanding
performance; (c) major internal problems and analysis of impact of the
various controls on corporate performance; (d) valuation of assets
based on replacement rather than historical costs; and (e) operational
plans to achieve objectives and targets, including modifications in
staffing, balancing and modernization investments, restructuring of
capital or management.



- 70 -                              ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 4
Major Actions                             Dates
* Preparation of full corporate plans for    January-July 1984
all corporations and GOBUs, for
CY85-CY86 period, with performance
incentives for managers who exceed
agreed targets.
* Release of some controls on trial basis    January-December 1984
for selected corporations.
Signalling System
Detailed review of key controls and            January-June 1984
systems (done in close cooperation
with Public Enterprise Division of
MINFIN) analyzing modifications which
would improve performance of MISA
corporations and GOBUs. Systems to be
reviewed include:
- investment approval procedures and
controls on financial management
- tendering procedures for purchasing
equipment and raw materials
- personnel policies including hiring,
promotions, salaries, performance
incentives
- selection criteria for management
- controls over pricing
Preparation and discussion with relevant   July-September 1984
GOSL and IDA officials of report with
analysis and recommendations on means
to reduce controls and replace them
with a system based upon corporate
planning, performance incentives, and
management accountability for results
Preparation of, and agreement on, phased   September-November 1984
program for implementing such a system,
with incorporation of steps in CY85
action program



- 71 -
ANNEX 17
Page 3 of 4
Major Actions                           Dates
Firm-Level Assistance
. Canvassing of corporation management to    July-December 1983
determine priorities in firm-level
technical assistance in: personnel
management, marketing; financial
planning and management; balancing and
modernization requirements; quality
control and management information
systems; and increasing private
participation.
. Preparation by at least four corporations, October-December 1983
with assistance by MISA Public
Enterprise Cell, of proposals for
technical assistance, with purpose
of TA being (a) firm-level improvements;
and (b) serving as demonstrations of
how performance can be improved if key
controls are reduced or removed.
. Outline of likely firm-level TA              by November 1983
requirements for CY84 in annual
action program
. Utilization of about 20, 36 and 40           January 1984-December 1986
manmonths of firm level technical
assistance in CY84, CY85 and CY86
respectively.
. Quarterly review by coordinating             beginning March 31, 1984
committee of impact of firm-level
TA and implications for policies
affecting public corporations
Pilot Schemes
. Identification of pilot projects to         October 1983-March 1984
encourage private participation in
coporations and GOBUs 1/
1/ In case of GOBUs, will do corporate planning and asset valuation prior
to taking decision re conversion to public corporations or public
companies, with GOBUs with dominantly commercial functions to be
converted to companies.



- 72 -                              ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 4
Major Actions                             Dates
Launching of at least three pilot              March 1984 - December 1984
projects in management contracts,
transformation, joint ventures,
and/or selling of shares
Firm-level technical assistance to             March 1984 - December 1984
about five firms in preparing pilot
schemes
Based upon corporate planning and asset    July-December 1984
valuation analysis, prepare program
to encourage appropriate modes of
private participation in MISA
corporations, with phased actions in
annual action programs
Monitoring, Reporting and Accounting
Quarterly reports presented to                 beginning December 31, 1983
coordinating committee and IDA,
through NDB
Coordinating committee to meet monthly         beginning September 1983
until December 1984, and at least
quarterly thereafter
Audited accounts for this program to be    July, 1984, 85, 86, 87
submitted six months after end of
calendar year
Authorization and withdrawal requests
to be submitted through NDB, for
convenience



ANNEX 17
73 -Attachment 1
Probable Composition of Public Enterprise Cell MISA
. Chairman, Coordinating Committee for
Public Enterprise Program:                Secretary, MISA
. Head of MISA Public Enterprise Cell:      Director, MISA to be appointed
in consultation with IDA.
. Members in MISA:                          Director, Finance
Director, Prices and Tariffs
Director, Personnel
Director, Project Evaluation
Division
Director, Tender Board
. Members in Corporations:                  rotating membership composed
of 2-3 chairmen or designates,
of involved corporations,
probably beginning with
cement, ceramics, leather.
The Coordinating Committee on the Program to Improve Public Enterprise
Performance to meet monthly, at least from October 1983 - December 1984,
and at least quarterly thereafter, will be established by October 1983
with the following minimum membership:
. Chairman      -  Secretary, MISA
. Members       -  Director of Public Enterprise Division of Ministry
of Finance (MINFIN)
- Head of MISA Public Enterprise Cell
- Director, Planning, MINFIN or designate
- Chairman, NDB or designate
- Chief Advisors, Public Enterprise Cell, MISA
- Rotating memberships of Chairman of 2-3 involved
public sector corporations.
- Director, Project Evaluation, MISA.



74 -ANNEX 17
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
Industrial Development Project
Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs (MISA)
Program to Improve Public Enterprise Performance
Draft Terms of Reference for Chief Advisors
A. Advisor on Corporate Plans and Firm-Level Assistance
Qualifications. The advisor will have a degree in industrial
economics or corporate finance and management, and will have at least ten
years of experience working in or on public sector enterprises in
countries similar to Sri Lanka. The advisor will have strong experience
with corporate planning in public enterprises, and will be well versed in
the various functional areas of industrial management e.g. finance,
marketing, production, personnel, and investment. Good knowledge of
specialists who could assist individual corporations in resolving
firm-level problems would be desirable.
Responsibilities. The advisor will work for the Ministry of
Industries and Scientific Affairs, under the general direction of the
Secretary, MISA, and on a daily basis with the head of the Public
Enterprise Cell of MISA. The advisor will assist in carrying out the
activities outlined in the Implementation Plan (attached) with particular
attention to the following aspects:
(a) assisting MISA corporations and GOBUs in completion of
corporate plans, monitoring of implementation of actions, and
compliance with objectives and meeting of targets;
(b) development of criterion values on adequate and outstanding
performance, and appropriate systems of performance incentives for
management;
(c) analysis of means to address firm level problems, and
assistance to management in developing technical assistance
proposals, and locating suitable consultants;
(d) development and installation of management information systems
to help management and MISA better monitor performance, enabling
movement to a system of performance monitoring, rewards, and
accountability with increased autonomy to corporation management;
and



ANNEX 17
75 -                           Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
(e) working closely with the Cell and other advisor, development
of pilot scheme program to encourage appropriate private
participation in ownership and management of public sector
corporations, GOBUS, and other enterprises. In performing these
tasks the advisor will help ensure strong coordination with the
Public Enterprise Division of MINFIN, by participating in regular
meetings of the Coordinating Committee and maintaining strong
operating-level liason.
Reporting. The advisor will assist in preparation of Quarterly
Progress Reports, and will prepare an interim and final report on work,
findings, and conclusions.
B. Advisor on System of Controls, Signalling and Private Participation
Qualifications. The advisor will have a degree in industrial
economics or business administration, and will have at least ten years of
experience in analyzing systems affecting enterprise performance and
efficiency, in situations similar to those of Sri Lanka. The advisor also
will be well versed in asset valuation and alternative modes of increasing
private participation in ownership and management of public enterprises
including: management contracts; joint ventures; transfirmation into
companies; selling of shares. Preferably, the advisor will have
experience both at enterprise and ministerial levels.
Responsibilities. The advisor will assist the Ministry of
Industries and its Public Enterprise Cell in undertaking actions and
meeting objectives outlined in the Implementation Plan for the Program to
Improve Public Enterprise Performance (attached). The advisor will give
particular attention to the following aspects:
(a) Analysis of the existing system of controls over operation of
public corporations and GOBUS including tendering procedures;
personnel hiring, promotion, and remuneration; pricing policies;
financial management and investment approval; and make
recommendations, if necessary, to MISA, on the selection of
management, to improve public enterprises;
(b) Recommendations on modifications in the system and phased
replacement of controls with a system of performance incentives
and management accountability; and assistance in implementing
these changes;
(c) Analysis of optimum means to encourage increased private
participation in ownership and management of public corporations,
GOBUs and other enterprise forms.



ANNEX 17
- 76 -                            Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
Monitoring and Reporting. The advisor will: assist the MISA
Public Enterprise Cell in preparing quarterly progress reports; prepare an
interim and final report on work, findings and recommendations; and will
help coordination with MINFIN through participation in the coordinating
committee and regular operating level contacts.
Duration. Both advisors will be hired for a period of two years,
beginning about October 1983.



INDEX - PROBLEMS
1 - Marketing
2 - Production                                                                                 SRI LANKA
3 - Inputs                                                                        INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4 - Finance/Accounting
5 - Personnel                                            PROBLEMS OF SELECTED STATE INDUSTRIAL CORPORATIONS:  A.  FIRM-LEVEL PROBLEMS
Name of Corporation         Problems                                                                                 Principal Problems
1   2   3   4   5
National Paper          X            X        Difficulty in competing with imports, with resultant low capacity utilization of about 60%; need to do market and cost analysis to determine
Corporation                                   lines in which can be competitive, and to upgrade quality.
X                Need to reduce product varieties, rationalize product mix overall and between the two plants to achieve economies of scale; most imports are
from plants with 300 MT capacity vs. 25 MT per day in Sri Lanka.
X       Heavy burden to repay major  NfW loan for second plant; would preclude making necessary balancing and consolidation efforts.
X   Overstaffing, by about 50% in unskilled, allied trades, clerical, and junior executive levels, combined with high turnover and non-
availability in skilled and professional grades; high number of mandays per metric ton produced; low motivation.
X            Escalating costs of imported wood pulp and fuel; desire to substitute indigenous raw materials but Embilipiliya plant not equipped with
adequate pulping equipment and local wood not available.
X            Serious problems with sporadic and prolonged power cuts; since continuous process plants, high start-up costs and losses with downtimes.
_X      Low return on capital (6.1%).
Ceylon State                         X        Losses in 1978; notional profits in 1979 and 1980; extremely low return on capital (about 4%).
Corporation             X   X        X        Need to adapt products and rationalize product mix on the basis of unit cost and market analysis; at present, corporation makes 122
products; in the case of 50 items, fewer than 20,000 units are made annually, averaging less than 100 units per day.  Many could be made by                     :
private sector.                                                                                                                                                  '
X                Quality control improvements and reduction in the percentage of rejections are needed.
X            Need to reduce wastage in raw material utilization, particularly in view of escalating input costs.
X        Insufficient internal controls; weaknesses in working capital and liquidity management and budgetary controls  (variance from budget is
about 40%); and high accrued liabilities.
X   Difficulties in attracting and retaining skilled staff due to low salaries and relatively distant location from major city or town; high
percentage of non-production workers to total work force; high absenteeism (20%).
X                     Poorly balanced plant with some obsolete machinery.
X       Lack of funds for investment; considering joint venture with Chillington for mammoties.
Ceylon Leather          X                     Dwindling market share with competition from private sector; in 1977, CLPC represented 62% of market share in footwear sales vs. 39S in
Products                                      1978.
Corporation                 X             X   Need for production incentives which reflect both quality and quantity objectives; at present piece rate incentives combined with poor
quality control have resulted in 20-30% increase in output but with high percentage of defective products.
X                     Virtually no market intelligence in determining designs and sizing in product mix.
X                Poor maintenance and spare management, resulting in frequent machine breakdowns and losses with downtime.
X   High rate of absenteeism, ranging from 16% to 30%; less of an over-employment problem than in other corporations; low labor productivity
averaging 3.4 to 3.8 pairs daily per worker.
X   Inability to retain qualified supervisory and technical manpower.
X       Lack adequate reserves to finance new investments.
X            Limited and dwindling supply of local hides and skins and increased competition to get these inputs since CLPC no longer has monopoly
on purchase of hides and skins; better raw matarial inventory management could result in savingsi
_ X              Questionable comparative advantage vs private sector in recent diversification move in rubber soling.



Name of Corporation   I   2   3   4   5                                                                            Principal Problems
Sri Lanka Tyre              X                Weaknesses in quality control; QC needed at four stages, performed only at two.
Corporation                 X                Low technology for curing; obsolete equipment for vulcanizing; poorly balanced plant.
X            Difficulty in purchasing spares since 40% of the equipment is Russian, with limited servicing.
X   High percentage of non-productive labor force, accounting for nearly half of the Rs 16 million total wage bill; excess employment even in
managerial and technical grades; actual cadre about 40% above approved level and about 30% above needs; attempting to address through
attrition but this approach is slow and difficult due to pressures from community and union.
X   Quantity-oriented incentive system results in high percentage of rejects.
X                    Difficult competition from imports and local tyre rebuilding industry; changing demand for new tyres with corporation slow to analyze and
react--production scheduling done only once a year.
X                    No pricing strategy:  see low prices as an objective, which reduces profits, reinvestment, and response to changing market
requirements.
X                Location poor, in residential area, with no room for expansion.
Ceylon Ceramics             X            X   Problem with quality of sanitary ware.  Quantity incentives result in speeding up machines with resultant high percentage of defects.
Corporation                     X            Excess materials used in glazing stage.
X       X        Need to do unit costing exercise to determine optimum product mix and product costing.
X                    Have installed Rs 100 million chinaware plant which is not viable unless have solid export marketing arrangements; negotiating with Royal
Dalton to make it a joint venture.
Ceylon Mineral              X                Improvements needed in loading material handling, testing, improving processing efficiency (UNIDO assistance received and on-going in
Sands Corporation                            addressing these problems).
X       Substantial amount of untapped high quality mineral sands, synthetic rutile and ilmenite; trying to find foreign partner to establish joint
venture company.
National Salt               X                Involved in variety of small industries which could be done by private sector; plan other small investments in epsom salt, gypsum,
magnesium sulphate.
X   Need managerial and technical training.
Ceylon Cement               X       X   X   Have taken major steps in improving performance:  seek technical assistance under the project in:  (a) developing personnel management.
Corporation            _                     includingincentive systems; (b) accounting and financial management; and (c) selected production problems.
ao x'
X 4



INDEX - PROBLEMS
I = Tendering
2 = Protection                                                                                  SRI LANKA
3 = Personnel Management                                                            INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4 = Pricing
5 = Investment                                          PROBLEMS OF SELECTED STATE INDUSTRIAL CORPORATIONS:  B.  PROBLEMS WITH THE SYSTEM
6 = Cross Subsidies
Froblems
Name of Corporation   _           _    _    _    _                                                                   Principal Problems
1   2   3   4   5   6
National Paper          X                          Government tendering procedures are lengthy and inappropriate in pulp and chemical purchases; large stocks need to be held due to long
Corporation                                        lead time in going through tendering, and procurement costs are higher than if Paper Corporation were to negotiate directly when prices
are low. Makes competition with imports difficult.
X                     As a result of problems in competing, Paper Corporation has succeeded in getting import duty on paper increased from 25% to 50%.
X                 Salaries are determined by government grades; would need to increase salaries of technical and managerial personnel by two to three
times to attract and retain adequate numbers of competent key staff; incentives for management would be strong inducement and improve
performance.
Prices Commission set prices but real problem is market.
Regular and unanticipated power cuts are imposed by government onf NPC and other corporations.
Ceylon State            X                          Cumbersome tendering procedures (taking three to five months) have meant that need to order nine months-worth of inputs; took 1.5 years
Hardware                                            to get decision on procurement of induction furnace.
Corporation                                        Claim Prices Commission is problem, with prices set being out of date; however, have difficulty selling at these low prices.
X   Made to use old rails which create 20% reject problem; could improve quality if could import billets.
X                Need to use Job Bank for all grades except executives; need approval by Ministry before advertising for any vacancies.
Have lost about 50% of engineers and skilled workers during last three years.
X        Have called for tenders for expansion project, but will not be possible until government approves, which is questionable since
Corporation does not have equity financing.
Ceylon Leather          X        X                 Clear contrast between CLPC and its joint venture with Korean firm on CGEC for canvas shoe manufacture (Korean firm has controllinlg
Products                                            interest): with joint venture are able to attract technical and managerial staff as can pay higher salaries and are free to select most
Corporation                                        qualified staff.
X   Profits of CLPC deceptive as cross subsidization of inputs since purchase from own tannery; transfer price is about half the price of
leather sold on open market. Management fears that could not sell shoes if coated leather correctly.
Sri Lanka Tyre                                 X   Forced to purchase rubber from Department of Commodity Purchase; rubber, which is surplus from China rubber-rice bilateral trade, is
Corporation                                        of higher quality and price than the Tyre Corporation requires.
X                          Tendering procedures, required for all input and equipment procurement in excess of Rs I million, result  in large inventories and
higher purchasing costs than if negotiated.
X                 Forced to employ people from the local community, who object to pollution and waste.
X            Prices Commission and public corporation ethic result in many items being priced too low.
Have entered into technical services contract with Goodrich (25% of total net sales) to improve performance and set-up radial tyre
production.                                                                                                                                                   Nq
Value assets at historical prices, as dictated, with no efforts to revalue assets.



Name of Corporation    1   2   3   4   5   6                                                                         Principal Problems
Ceylon Ceramics
Corporation                               X        Received Rs 100 million from Treasury for new chinaware factory as bridge loan until could make arrangements with NDB. To make factory
operational, would cost another Rs 60 million. Also, project unviable unless establish strong export marketing relations. CCC now
want Treasury to alter terms of loan, with 10 year repayment including two years grace at 10% annual interest. Are negotiating with
Royal Dalton for joint venture company, with Royal Dalton to hold 491 share and Royal Dalton would purchase from company at agreed
price. Still need additional funds and not in position to put in more equity financing.
Ceylon Mineral                   X                 Board, with mixed qualifications, involved in day-to-day operations through working directors which creates unclear decision-making
Sands Corporation                                  responsibilities.
X        Excellent expansion prospects in ilmanite and synthetic rutile but technical expertise by foreign partner required; need feasibility
study.
National Salt                X                     have monopoly on salt mining and distribution; lends itself to small, labor intensive industries.
Corporation                                        Public pressure to keep salt prices low, claim that sell at subsidized prices.
X   Forced to sell salt to other corporations at below cost.
C
I!1



- 81 -                           ANNEX 19
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year                                       Disbursements
and Quarter                             By Quarter   Percentage   Cumulative %
(US$ millions)
FY84
To December 21, 1983                          0.2            0.8             0.8
March 31, 1984                             0.3            1.2             2.0
June 30, 1984                              0.6            2.4             4.4
1.1            4.4
FY85
To September 30, 1984                         0.7            2.8             7.2
December 31, 1984                          1.0            4.0            11.2
March 31, 1985                             1.2             4.8           16.0
June 30, 1985                              1.3            5.2            21.2
4.2           16.8
FY86
To September 30, 1985                         1.7             6.8           28.0
December 31, 1985                          1.8            7.2            35.2
March 31, 1986                             2.0             8.0           43.2
June 30, 1986                              2.2            8.8           52.0
7.7           30.8
FY87
To September 30, 1986                         2.4             9.6           61.6
December 31, 1986                          2.5           10.0            71.6
March 31, 1987                             2.3            9.2            80.8
June 30, 1987                              2.0            8.0            88.8
9.2           36.8
FY88
To September 30, 1987                         1.3             5.2           94.0
December 31, 1987                          0.9            3.6            97.6
March 31, 1988                             0.4             1.6           99.2
June 30, 1988                              0.2            0.8          100.0
2.8           11.2
25.0          100.0
April 1983
ASPID



- 82 -                              ANNEX 20
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supporting Documents Available in Project File
A. Industrial Sector and Economic Setting:
1. Central Bank of Ceylon, Review of the Economy, 1981; subsequent monthly
bulletins.
2. Report on the Survey on Manufacturing Industries, 1979. Department of
Census and Statistic.
3. Cuthbertson and Khan, Effective Protection to Manufacturing Industry in
Sri Lanka, 1981.
4. Survey of Projects Approved by the Foreign Investment Advisory Committee,
1977 - 1982, Ministry of Finance and Planning.
5. Performance and Prospects of the Tourism Sector, J. A. Simmons. (Mission
Working Paper). February 1982; revised in April 1983.
B. Lending Component
1. National Development Bank of Sri Lanka:
- Various financial, operational and institutional data on NDB;
- Policy Statement and Strategy Statement (1983 - 1986).
2. Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon:
- Various financial, operational and institutional data on DFCC.
- Statement of Policies and Strategy Statement (1983 - 1986).
- Operational Plan, 1983.
C. Public Enterprises Component
1. Annual and Performance Reports on Public Corporations under MISA.
2. Corporate Plans and Special Studies of Selected Public Industrial Corporations.
3. Parliament and Public Corporations, Report by the Committee on Public
Enterprises (COPE).
4. Report on Public Enterprises in Sri Lanka, Mr. Praxy Fernandez et
March 1983.
5. Review of Activities, 1981, Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs.



IBRD 17278
80'                         81-                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 19831
SRI LANKA
INDUSTRIAl DEVElOPMENT PROJECT 
JAFFNAI                                 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~National Capital|
/                                       -- -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District Boundaries|
-r  MULLAITIVU                                          - - Provincial Boundciries           
NORTHE-RN 1-
VAVUJNIYA
MANNAR            y             -     
j   V    .                         \ ~~~~~~~~TRINCOMALEE 
<          ~~ANURADHAPURA
-.NOR TH  CF NTR A    'j   - 
PUTTALAM                                                  POLONNARUWA                                              8
!                     r  v?~~
NORTH                        \     
(                                                 \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BATTICALOA
WE-STERN                                       l  _                       --
KURUNEGALA                   )  AAE                h        EASTERN 
i 1 \ CENTRAL   i 
, ~~~~KANDY 3.
GAMPAHA                                            .J\.\z/AMPARAI
.KEGALLA    \      _/\         X       >BADULLA 
wx    \  n\ >                  i  ,Ut V A                                                     7
COLOMBO ej                 in                  NUWARA,j
rT\r  \  ~~~r                      % ELIY                 MONERAGALA
RATNAPIURA            /                                     . 
I N D I A             ~~~GALLE         I                          \HAMBANTOTA
SOUTHERN
MATARA                                                   0 10 oO  no  s    o
SRI L4     (                <                         ve .s.*.5 . s X.uS,>~~~~~~~~~~~~4LO E7   y> oERS @u,7c.>s.m   w M     -
Colombo s l 8! ,v ve vt o/ rm Y  * > r w ~~ 9 - 



