OFFICIAL
DOCUM       r      IT NUMBER 1401 CE
Project Agreement
(Industrial Development Project)
between
INTERMATIOAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
Dated                               , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1401 CE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON (here-
inafter called DFCC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Socalist Republic of Sri Lanka
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million one hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,100,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that DFCC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DFCC, part of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to DFCC on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS DFCC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE 1I
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. DFCC shall carry out its part of Part A of
the Project and carry out Part B.2 of the Project, described in


﻿-2-
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative, financial and investment standards and practices, and
in accordance with the DFCC Act, the DFCC Statement of Policy and
the DFCC Strategy Statement.
Section 2.02. In order to assist DFCC in carrying out
Part B.2 of the Project, DFCC shall employ consultants whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance
with the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 2.03. (a) In accordance with and subject to the pro-
visions of the Development Credit Agreement, DFCC shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for autho-
rization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b)  (i) When submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-
limit Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, DFCC shall
furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory
to the Association, together with a description of the Investment
Enterprise and of the Investment Project to be financed there-
under (including a descriptibn of the expenditures for such
Investment Project proposed to be financed by DFCC and an apprai-
sal of the Investment Project) and the proposed terms and condi-
tions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of
the Sub-loan, a certificate by DFCC that such application is in
compliance with the requirements if paragraph (e) of this Sec-
tion, and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request; and (ii) such appraisals will include a calculation
of the internal financial rate of return and, in cases of import              .
substitution, an evaluation of the economic viability established
in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Each request by DFCC for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit) and the terms and conditions of such free-limit
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.


﻿-3-
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall proviie for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
(i) shall not extend beyond 15 years (including the grace period)
from the date of commitment by DFCC of such Investment Project or
of authorization by the Association to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account in respect of such Investment Project, whichever
is later; and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, DFCC
shall not submit an application for approval pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section or a request for
authorization to withdraw from the Credit Account pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, unless DFCC has com-
plied with the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
(f) Except as the Association and DFCC shall otherwise
agree, DFCC shall submit applications for approval pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section and requests for
authorizations to withdraw from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section on or before
September 30, 1986.
Section 2.04 (a) With respect to Part A of the Project: (a)
DFCC undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby DFCC shall
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and DFCC, including, in the case of
any Sub-loan, the right of DFCC to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain ade-
quate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality
and the competence of the parties rendering them, provided that
contracts each costing the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more,


﻿-4-
shall be awarded in accordance with limited international bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Association, and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Association if the Association shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and
any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the
Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and
(2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to
be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such
information as the Association or DFCC shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the
benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and (vi)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to
the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such
Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with DFCC.
(b) DFCC shall exercise its rights in relation to each In-
vestment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and DFCC, (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the DFCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
(c) DFCC shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the Sub-
loans.
- Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account, DFCC shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived
and to be derived from them, the performance by DFCC and the
Association of their respective obligations under this Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. With respect to Part B.2 of the Project: (a)
DFCC shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their prepa-
ration, the plans, reports, training programs, contract documents
and schedules for Part B.2 of the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) DFCC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Part B.2 of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in Part B.2 of the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to examine any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning Part B.2 of the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by DFCC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part B.2 of the Project,
but in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between DFCC
and the Association, DFCC shall prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by DFCC and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. DFCC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the DFCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, DFCC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the DFCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. DFCC shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of DFCC under this


﻿-6-
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. (a) DFCC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the DFCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) DFCC shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the pro-
gress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by DFCC of its obligations under this
Agreement or under the DFCC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DFCC
Section 3.01. DFCC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial
and investment standards and practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association and DFCC shall
otherwise agree, DFCC shall: (i) not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the
ordinary course of business; and (ii) take all action necessary
to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on opera-
tions and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business.
Section 3.03. DFCC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. (a) DFCC shall adopt a Statement of Policy and
a Strategy Statement satisfactory to the Association.
(b) DFCC shall establish a unit responsible for project
identification and promotion, to be maintained with staff in num-
bers and with qualifications satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. DFCC shall, by March 31, 1984 complete the
staffing of the unit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. DFCC shall maintain procedures, and records
and separate accounts adequate to monitor and record the progress
of Part B.2 of the Project and of each Investment Project, and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition, and
shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records.
Section 4.02. DFCC shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year: (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited; and (ii) the report of -such audit by said
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors on the separate
accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, DFCC shall:
(a) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as
shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity
ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.04 of this Agree-
ment; and


﻿(b) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond DFCC's control,
be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as shall be
necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association and DFCC shall
otherwise agree, DFCC shall not incur or permit any of its Sub-
sidiaries to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt,
the consolidated debt of DFCC and all its Subsidiaries then
incurred and outstanding would exceed seven times the consoli-
dated capital and surplus of DFCC and all its Subsidiaries. For
the purpose of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by DFCC or any
Subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
DFCC or by a Subsidiary.
(b) Wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be
incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement on the date and
to the extent the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan con-
tract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but only to the extent the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Rupee debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable in Sri Lanka for the purposes of
servicing such debt.
(d) The term "consolidated debt of DFCC and all its Sub-
sidiaries" means the total amount of debt of DFCC and all its
Subsidiaries excluding: (i) debt owed by DFCC to any Subsidiary
or by any Subsidiary to DFCC or to any other Subsidiary; and (ii)
debt referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) and (iii) of this Section.
(e) The term "consolidated capital and surplus of DFCC and
all its Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of: (i) the total un-
impaired paid-in capital, surplus and free reserves of DFCC and
of all its Subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as
shall represent equity interests of DFCC in any Subsidiary, or of
any such Subsidiary in DFCC or in any other Subsidiary; (ii) the


﻿amount of the loans and credits extended to DFCC by the Bank and
the Association; and (iii) such amount of any other loan which
the As6ociation may determine to be included in the consolidated
capital and surplus of DFCC.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association and DFCC shall
otherwise agree, DFCC shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any of its borrowings (other than depo-
sits) having &n original term exceeding one year.
Section 4.06. DFCC shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Rupees) used in its borrowing
and lending operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of DFCC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If   the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
DFCC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Dbvelopment
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For DFCC:
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
P.O. Box 1397
Colombo
Sri Lanka
Cable Address:                     Telex:
DELCEY                            21681
Colombo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of DFCC, or by DFCC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed


﻿- 11 -
by its General Manager or such other person or persons as DFCC
shall designate in writing, and DFCC shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto   duly  authorized, have   caused  this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, Unites States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION OF CEYLON
Byiv
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of          ,
198_
FOR SECRETARY


