                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 28964

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (CPL-38420 PPFB-P1880)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$46.5 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                    REPUBLICA DEL PARAGUAY

                                                FOR THE

                                  ASUNCION SEWERAGE PROJECT

    (LATER REFORM PROJECT FOR WATER AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTORS)




                                              June 25, 2004




Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management 7
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective December 2003)

                              Currency Unit = Guarani (G$)
                                        G$1 = US$ 0.00016
                                      US$ 1 = G$ 6,070

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ANTELCO                 National Telecommunications Administration
                        (Administración Nacional de Telecomunicaciones)
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
COPACO S.A.             Paraguayan Corporation of Communications
                        (Compañia Paraguaya de Comunicaciones S.A.)
CORPOSANA               Corporation for Sanitary Works
                        (Corporación de Obras Sanitarias)
CONATEL                 National Commission of Telecommunications
                        (Comisión Nacional de Telecomunicaciones)
EIB                     European Investment Bank
ERSSAN                  Regulator of Water and Sanitation Services
                        (Ente Regulador de Servicios Sanitarios)
ESSAP S.A.              Water Supply and Sewerage Authority of Paraguay
                        (Empresa de Servicios Sanitarios del Paraguay S.A.)
FOMIN                   IDB's Multilateral Investment Fund
                        (Fondo Multilateral de Inversiones)
JBIC                    Japan Bank for International Cooperation
ICB                     International Competitive Bidding
IDB                     Inter-American Development Bank
LCB                     Local Competitive Bidding
MOF                     Ministry of Finance
OED                     Operations Evaluation Department
OPACI                   Paraguayan Organization of Intermunicipal Cooperation
                        (Organización Paraguaya de Cooperación Intermunicipal)
PPIAF                   Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
SNRE                    National Secretariat of the Reform of the State
                        (Secretaría Nacional de la Reforma del Estado)




                             Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                          Country Director:       Axel van Trotsenburg
                   Sector Manager/Director:       John H. Stein/Danny M. Leipziger
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Ventura Bengoechea

                                         PARAGUAY
                            ASUNCION SEWERAGE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                    30

Project ID: P007926                                                  Project Name: PY ASUNCION SEWERAGE
Team Leader: Ventura Bengoechea                                      TL Unit: LCSFW
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: PY ASUNCION SEWERAGE                                     L/C/TF Number: CPL-38420; PPFB-P1880
   Country/Department: PARAGUAY                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Sewerage (98%); Water supply (2%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S); Regulation and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/02/1992                                     Effective: 05/15/1995                10/13/1995
     Appraisal: 06/15/1994                                         MTR:                             10/01/1998
      Approval: 02/14/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          CORPOSANA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Alfonso Sanchez
Team Leader at ICR:             Ventura Bengoechea                             Luis Chang
ICR Primary Author:             Bernardo Gomez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were grouped in two broad categories: (i) helping the borrower to improve the
provision of urban water and sanitation services through policy and institutional reform, and (ii) improving
the health conditions and quality of life in Asuncion through the provision of sewerage infrastructure. The
specific objectives under each category were:

Policy and Institutional Reform

   l decentralizing CORPOSANA's functions and promoting greater municipal participation in the
        provision of services;
   l increasing private sector participation;
   l strengthening CORPOSANA's corporate planning, management and finances; and
   l defining CORPOSANA's future role in the sector.


Provision of Sewerage Infrastructure

   l improving health conditions and quality of life for about 250,000 inhabitants in Greater Asuncion
        by increasing the sewerage coverage;
   l mitigating the environmental impact of sewage disposal in the Paraguay River; and
   l providing basic infrastructure works for 3,000 inhabitants in Encarnacion.


The seven specific objectives taken separately correspond to government priorities at the time of project
appraisal and to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy dated 1993. Achieving the seven objectives
simultaneously during the life of the Bank-financed project was, however, a task clearly exceeding the
managerial capacity of CORPOSANA, as well as the government's political capability and willingness to
introduce reform. Indeed, simultaneously promoting municipal participation in CORPOSANA, promoting
private sector participation in the provision of services, strengthening the entity's corporate planning,
management and finances, and implementing an unusually large investment program (financed mainly by
the Bank, EIB, IDB and JBIC ) constituted a challenging task even for a first-class managerial team
operating under a powerful set of incentives. Neither the first-class managerial team nor the incentives
were in place in CORPOSANA at the time of appraisal.

The multiplicity of institutional objectives seemed to reflect a lack of a realistic appreciation of the
possibilities of private sector participation and of the role of the municipalities in the provision of services.
In addition, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) failed to discuss the approaches to private sector
participation considered more suitable for Paraguay, as well as possible approaches to local participation in
the provision of services. The SAR also failed to provide indication of the views of the mayors on
decentralization and private sector participation. It only made reference to the greater municipal autonomy
established in the 1992 Constitution. In addition, the proposed policy and institutional reform lacked a
sense of priorities, of the sequencing of the interventions, and of potential trade-offs between objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:
After the project had been rated unsatisfactory for two years and disbursements suspended for nine months,
and in the context of a renewed political landscape in the country, the Bank and the borrower decided to
carry out a substantial project restructuring. The restructure project objectives approved by the Board in
January 2000 were:




                                                       - 2 -

   l improving the provision of water services by strengthening the regulatory framework and by
         introducing private sector participation in the water sector. This was essentially one of the original
         institutional objectives. The other three original institutional objectives were discontinued without
         accomplishing them. The discontinued objectives were: the institutional strengthening of
         CORPOSANA, the decentralization of its activities, and the increased local participation in the
         provision of services;
   l improving the living conditions of about 3,000 inhabitants in the city of Encarnacion through the
         construction of infrastructure works. This was one of the original objectives, and it was achieved
         before project restructuring. The objective of improving health conditions and quality of life for
         about 250,000 inhabitants in Greater Asuncion by increasing sewerage coverage was discontinued
         without accomplishing it;
   l improving the provision of telecommunications services by strengthening the regulatory framework
         and by introducing private sector participation in ANTELCO. This was a new objective;
   l strengthening the government's institutional capacity to implement reform, by introducing a public
         administration training program in a local university. This was a new objective;
   l operating the new Project Implementation Unit at the General Secretariat of the Presidency of the
         Republic; and
   l reaching out the public and facilitating understanding and consensus regarding the reform program.


The Bank had two reasons for restructuring the project. First, the Bank considered it unlikely that the
original project would achieve its objectives given CORPOSANA's managerial weaknesses and its poor
financial performance that had been worsening over time. The project had been under implementation for
five years, and not much progress had been made toward achieving the institutional objectives or improving
the living conditions in Greater Asuncion through increased sewerage coverage.

Second, the Bank adopted the project restructuring approach -- as opposed to preparing a new operation --
as a practical way to respond promptly to an opportunity perceived as exceptional, at a time when there
was agreement between the Bank and the government to withhold the preparation of new operations until
the country portfolio performance showed a significant improvement.

The Bank clearly understood that the restructuring was a high-reward-high-risk opportunity. The
opportunity was considered high-reward because of the apparent political consensus in Paraguay regarding
the urgency of implementing a long-delayed process of structural reform. This judgment was based on a
number of reasons, including:

   l the issuance, in July 1999, of a multi-party economic program which included among the main
         themes the privatization of five major public enterprises and civil service reform;
   l the publication, in November 1999, of the recently inaugurated Gonzalez Macchi administration's
         program for 1999-2003. The program advocated a change in the role of the State from a
         centralized and service provider model to a State that defines norms, regulates, and promotes
         socioeconomic development. The program included also the capitalization or concession of the
         country's main utilities, including ANTELCO and CORPOSANA;
   l the initiation of a major anti-corruption program supported by the Bank through the World Bank
         Institute; and
   l the implementation of the government's decision to transfer to the General Secretariat of the
         Presidency all responsibilities for privatization activities. The General Secretary of the Presidency
         evolved into the Secretariat of the Reform staffed by qualified professionals headed by the General
         Secretary who had a ministerial rank.




                                                       - 3 -

The Bank considered the risks as high based on a number of reasons, including:

   l privatization was a very sensitive issue in Paraguay and, thus, opposition could be expected from
         various interest groups, including politicians, business, general public and organized labor;
   l ANTELCO's collective agreement which stipulated extremely high and unaffordable
         compensations (over US$156 million) for ANTELCO's workers in the event of ANTELCO's
         privatization;
   l the volatile political situation in Paraguay and, thus, the high probability that the existing
         consensus among coalition partners would not last and that support to privatization would
         evaporate; and
   l that the high political and regulatory uncertainty failed to attract investor's interest.


The Bank recognized that the risks of the project remained substantial despite the proposed risk-mitigation
measures incorporated in the restructured project. The risk mitigation measures included technical
assistance, disbursement conditions and a time-bound implementation plan. In retrospect, the measures
adopted did not address fully the perceived risks. Indeed, it was unlikely that the powerful interests
opposing private sector participation would change their behavior as an outcome of the technical
assistance, and of the loan conditionality. In addition, the proposed public information campaign was
needed, but unlikely to produce in the short-term results sufficient to offset the efforts of organized groups
directly affected by the project outcomes.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project consisted of two main components:

Institutional Development Technical Assistance Program (2% of the total project cost) consisting of
three subcomponents:

   l developing and implementing proposals to decentralize CORPOSANA's operations;
   l carrying out an analysis and evaluation of options for private sector participation in sector
         activities, and implementing the recommendations emerging from the analysis. The study included:
         Reviewing relevant legislation and drafting required legislation; preparing the regulatory
         framework; evaluating the entire range of private sector participation options; and defining areas or
         functions that could be contracted with the private sector; and
   l strengthening and restructuring CORPOSANA to operate as an efficient commercial enterprise (to
         include improvements in corporate planning, accounting and budgeting reduction of
         unaccounted-for water, commercial and management information systems, tariff policies, personnel
         policies, and training). This component would be financed by IDB.

Asuncion Sewerage Expansion and Infrastructure Works in Encarnacion (98% of the total project
cost) consisting of eight subcomponents:

   l providing approximately 50,000 house connections;
   l constructing about 550 km of secondary sewage collectors;
   l constructing 24 km of sewage interceptors of about 2 meter diameter;
   l constructing a 3.2 km tunnel of about 2 meter diameter;
   l installing an automatic sewage screening device to separate coarse materials along with the
         construction of a new sewage outfall into the Paraguay River;
   l rehabilitating and extending three existing sewage outfalls into the Paraguay River;
   l designing a control and monitoring system to control hazardous and toxic chemicals from future



                                                      - 4 -

        industrial wastes;
   l hiring consulting services for supervision of execution of sewerage works; and
   l constructing water supply, sewerage and related infrastructure works in the city of Encarnacion.
        This subcomponent supplemented the Borrower's resettlement program for about 3,000 people
        affected by the construction of the Yacyreta reservoir. The allocation for this subcomponent
        amounted to about US$1.2 million.

The above described project components taken together were clearly beyond CORPOSANA's financial and
managerial capabilities. First, the investments under the project (US$72 million) which were extremely
large for an organization like CORPOSANA, were only part of a total investment plan of US$238 million
for the 1994-2002 period. The other major project in the plan aimed at expanding the provision of water
supply services in Asuncion and in several medium-size cities. The water project was financed by the IDB
and JBIC, with loans amounting to US$80.0 million and US$50 million, respectively.

The dimension of CORPOSANA's financial challenge can be put into perspective by highlighting two main
points. First, the plan envisaged that CORPOSANA would be able to generate internally sufficient cash to
service debts for US$98 million and to contribute US$72 million to cover part of its investment costs.
Achieving these goals represented a major change in CORPOSANA's policy as, traditionally,
CORPOSANA had been unable to generate cash to finance investments and service its debts. Thus, the
practice had been that the government financed CORPOSANA's investment projects and helped service its
debts. Second, the viability of this shift in policy was based on the unrealistic assumption that
CORPOSANA's management would be able to: (i) reform itself in line with the project objectives; (ii)
implement unprecedented tariff adjustments; (iii) keep a high rate of growth in its operations; and (iv)
significantly improve its operational efficiency. Some of the specific assumptions which had significant
financial implications included, CORPOSANA:

   l implementing 5% tariff adjustments in real terms every year during the nine years of project
        implementation. Historically, CORPOSANA's tariffs had been adjusted only four times in the
        40-year period since its creation in 1954;
   l increasing the number of water and sewerage connections, as well as the volume of water sold by
        7% a year;
   l increasing the water billed as a percentage of production from 60% to 72%;
   l increasing the personnel efficiency by reducing the index of employees per 1,000 connections from
        8.0 to 4.6; and
   l improving the bill collection system by reducing the accounts receivable from the equivalent to 204
        to 91 days of sales.

3.4 Revised Components:
Reflecting the change in project objectives, the revised project components were basically technical
assistance, while the original were mainly construction. This change resulted in a reduction of total project
cost from US$72 to US$33 million, a reduction of the Bank loan from US$46.5 million to US$31.5
million, and the no utilization of the US$20.0 million loan from the European Investment Bank. The
revised project components are the following:

Part A: Water Sector Reform -- Technical Assistance (US$3.6 million). This component would finance
technical assistance to strengthen the regulatory framework in the water sector and to concession
CORPOSANA's operations to private operators. The technical assistance included:




                                                      - 5 -

   l carrying out preparatory studies and strengthening the regulatory framework. This subcomponent
         would finance: (a) designing the water sector strategy, including the strategy to concession
         CORPOSANA's operations; (b) training to strengthen the capacity of the new regulatory entity; (c)
         developing regulations to the water regulatory framework law; and (d) carrying out financial,
         technical, legal and labor assessments of CORPOSANA;
   l financing financial and legal advisors and consulting firms to assist the government to concession
         CORPOSANA; and
   l designing and implementing a training program to assist redundant CORPOSANA employees in
         the transition to alternative jobs or in becoming self-employed.

Part B: Improving the Health Conditions and Quality of Life in Asuncion (US$19.3 million). This
component would finance the construction of the 3.2 km tunnel (US$14.6 million) under the original
project, and the technical assistance to carry out the management and supervision of the works (US$4.7
million). Both subcomponents had already been contracted at the time of project restructuring and the
tunnel was nearing completion.

Part C: Improving the Living Conditions of About 3,000 Inhabitants in Encarnacion (US$1.1
million). This subcomponent had been completed at the time of project restructuring.

Part D: Telecommunications Sector Reform -- Technical Assistance (US$4.5 million). This component
would finance technical assistance to strengthen the telecom regulatory agency (CONATEL) and to
promote private sector participation in ANTELCO. The technical assistance included:

   l carrying out studies and strengthening the regulatory framework, including designing the telecom
         sector strategy and the strategy for private participation in ANTELCO;
   l hiring financial and legal advisors and/or consulting firms to assist the government in introducing
         private sector participation in ANTELCO; and
   l carrying out a retraining program, including the design and implementation of a program to assist
         redundant ANTELCO employees to make the transition to alternative jobs in growing sectors of
         the economy or in becoming self-employed.

Part E: Public Administration Training (US$1.2 million). This component would establish a master
level program in public administration at one of the local universities. The program would be designed and
administered in cooperation with a foreign university with experience in establishing such programs in
developing countries.

Part F: Project Management and Supervision (US$1.0). This component would finance the operation of
the new Project Implementation Unit at the General Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic.

Part G: Public Information Campaign (US$2.3 million). The loan would finance public information
advisors and material to identify public perceptions of the government's reform program in water and
telecom sectors, and develop and implement a communication strategy to reach out effectively the public
and facilitate understanding and consensus among various parties.

The restructured project components were adequately linked to the objectives of the project, and were
consistent with common practice in privatization processes. Implementing the project components in the
four years allowed for completing the project was, however, a challenging task.



                                                      - 6 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated highly unsatisfactory, based on the Bank's lack of realism in assessing the
viability of the required behavioral changes on the part of CORPOSANA's management and the
government to make it possible to achieve the project objectives. The lack of realism is reflected in: (a) the
expectation that CORPOSANA, a public monopoly, would have the incentives to introduce by itself
fundamental reform; (b) the failure to identify and propose strategies for resolving potential trade-offs
among multiple project objectives; (c) the design of a complex institutional development project component,
without taking sufficiently into account CORPOSANA's limited managerial capabilities and lack of
incentives for good performance; (d) the excessive expectations regarding the extent and depth of
CORPOSANA's reform, without taking sufficiently into account the political and social environment; and
(e) the overoptimistic estimates of CORPOSANA's capability to generate funds internally to cover the
counterpart financing for an ambitious investment plan, and to service the existing and new debts.

The over optimism and, thus, the level of risk of CORPOSANA's 1994-2002 investment and financing
plan, which was endorsed by the Bank, can be appreciated by noting that CORPOSANA's total
investments during the period were estimated at US$238 million or US$30 million a year. At the time of
appraisal, CORPOSANA was billing only US$15 million a year, that is, the equivalent of one half the level
of its planned yearly investments. In addition, CORPOSANA had at the end of 1993 debts (US$91
million), which were equivalent to six years of billings.

The quality at entry of the restructured project was satisfactory, as the project design and objectives were
consistent with relevant Bank's safeguard policies, particularly environmental issues and international water
ways.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievements of the original project are rated unsatisfactory. There was virtually no progress toward
policy and institutional reform, and no family in Asuncion was connected to the sewerage system as a result
of the project. The Encarnacion project component, a small part of the project, was the only success story
of the original project, as 600 families benefited from basic infrastructure, including water supply, latrines
and improved roads. The original project targets were to provide sewer services to 50,000 families in
Asuncion and basic infrastructure to 600 families in Encarnacion.

The failure to achieve the project objectives resulted also in an inefficient utilization of resources. First,
US$14.6 million were invested in a sewer tunnel that remains disconnected and does not provide any
service to the population because of the lack of sewage collectors and sewerage house connections.
Second, US$4.7 million out of the loan proceeds were spent in a consulting firm assisting CORPOSANA
in managing and supervising the project. This supervision cost was reasonable for the management and
supervision of the planned US$72 million project but it was excessive for the small part actually
implemented.

The achievements of the restructured project are rated unsatisfactory mainly because of the inability of the
government to implement fully the envisioned reform package that included the provision of water and
telecom services by private firms, and the performance of the regulatory function by government
regulators. At the end of the project the achievements were limited to the regulatory aspects and the
completion of the bidding documents which could be utilized at a later date.

The anti-privatization groups lobbying the Congress to suspend the privatization law discredited SRNE and



                                                      - 7 -

raised questions about the proposed sale of the telecommunications company. The discrediting of SRNE
was based to a large extend on the fraudulent use of loan proceeds deposited in the Special Account
(Section 7.2) and on a US$500,000 payment to a notary, out of government funds, to carry out a procedure
related to the privatization process. The questions related to the sale of the telecommunications company
under the mantra of "save the national patrimony" were given weight by the "second best" approach
adopted by the government, with Bank support, to sell the company prior to the opening of the market.
According to this approach, the opening of the market, which required Congress approval would take place
at a later stage, with appropriate provisions to this effect included in the transaction documents. The
approach was widely discussed by both the Paraguayan authorities and Bank staff, with the assistance of
an international consulting firm and found satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The analysis of the project outputs by components is presented in two parts: first, the outputs of the
original project and, second, the outputs of the restructured project.

Outputs of the original project

A. Helping the borrower to improve the provision of water and sewerage services through policy and
institutional reform, which includes:

   l developing and implementing proposals to decentralize CORPOSANA's operations. This
         component is rated unsatisfactory. Consultants financed by an IDB grant to the privatization
         agency of Paraguay (FOMIN), prepared a pilot project to decentralize the provision of water and
         sewerage services and introduce private sector participation in two cities (Ciudad del Este and
         Mariano Roque Alonso). The study was completed but its recommendations were not
         implemented;
   l carrying out an analysis and evaluation of options for private sector participation in sector
         activities, and implementing the recommendations emerging from the analysis. CORPOSANA,
         with the assistance of Bank's staff, drafted terms of reference for contracting out the billing and
         collection functions but no further action was taken;
   l developing and implementing a program for CORPOSANA's corporate planning, for designing and
         implementing a budgetary system and for a medium-term strategic plan. Not implemented;
   l developing and implementing a program for reducing CORPOSANA's unaccounted-for water.
         CORPOSANA with the help of consultants under the IDB-financed project carried out studies on
         sectorization, macro metering, leak detection, and commercial systems, including micro metering.
         The recommendations of the studies were partially implemented. Among the items implemented
         were the purchase and installation of micro and macro meters, and the establishment of a pilot
         water distribution zone;
   l developing and implementing a program for improving CORPOSANA's accounting, budgetary,
         commercial, and management information systems. Not implemented;
   l designing and implementing a tariff structure for water and sewerage services to reflect the
         economic cost of the services. Not implemented;
   l developing and implementing up-to-date personnel policies. Not implemented; and
         developing and implementing a training program for CORPOSANA's management team and staff.
         Not implemented.

B. Improving the health conditions and quality of life in Asuncion through the provision of sewerage
infrastructure, which includes:




                                                       - 8 -

  l providing approximately 50,000 sewerage house connections. Not implemented;
  l constructing about 550 km of secondary sewage collectors. Not implemented;
  l constructing 3.2 km of tunnel of about 2 m diameter. This component with a total cost of US$14.6
      million was completed in November 2000. Although this investment is yielding no benefits
      because the other components of the sewer system, sewerage house connections and secondary
      sewage collectors, were not built, it was a wise decision to complete it. The reason is that the
      de-mobilization costs of removing the tunneling equipment and leave it halfway done were
      equivalent to the cost of completing the tunnel.
  l installing an automatic sewage screening device along with the construction of a new sewage
      outfall into the Paraguay River. Not implemented;
  l rehabilitating and expanding three sewage outfalls into the Paraguay River. Not implemented;
  l designing a control and monitoring system to control hazardous and toxic chemicals from future
      industrial wastes. Not implemented;
  l hiring consulting services for supervision of sewerage works. CORPOSANA hired consultants to
      assist in project management and in supervising the construction of the tunnel. The contract with
      the consultants ended once CORPOSANA accepted the tunnel; and
  l constructing water supply, sewerage and related infrastructure works in the city of Encarnacion.
      This component is rated satisfactory. 600 families benefited from basic infrastructure, including
      water supply, latrines and improved roads.

Outputs of the restructured project

A. Helping the borrower to strengthening the regulatory framework in the water sector and to concession
CORPOSANA's operations to private operators, which includes technical assistance for:

  l Designing a strategy for the water sector, including the strategy to concession CORPOSANA's
      operations. The strategy for the water sector was not designed. However, the Congress took two
      important steps toward the concessioning of CORPOSANA by enacting Laws 1614 and 1615 in
      August 2000.

      Law 1614/2000 established: (i) the regulatory framework for the water and sanitation sector, and
      (ii) the regulatory agency (ERSSAN). ERSSAN was established with a satisfactory degree of
      autonomy as it is governed by a five-member board of directors (Comite de Administracion)
      appointed by the President of the Republic with the agreement of the Senate for a five-year period,
      and it is financed through a 2% surcharge on water and sewer bills. The members of ERSSAN's
      board can be removed by the government only with adequate justification and with the approval of
      the Senate. Consultants under the project assisted ERSSAN to start-up operations with a small
      group of qualified professionals under the direction of the full-time board members. Each board
      member is responsible for a specific function.

      The process of drafting ERSSAN's regulations included consultation with stakeholders,
      particularly, representatives of the "aguateros" and of the ''Juntas de Agua". The latter are
      community organizations responsible for the provision of water supply services in small cities (less
      than 5,000 inhabitants). The consultation included a 2-day seminar with participation of
      representatives of the "aguateros" and of the "Juntas de Agua", the members of ERSSAN's Board,
      and representatives of SNRE and the Bank. Issues discussed during the seminar included
      exclusivity rights, tariffs, quality of services and asset valuation. The seminar had the support of
      the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF).




                                                     - 9 -

        One important element of the regulatory framework is the recognition of the existence not only of
        the public provider of services, CORPOSANA, but also of the approximately 400 "aguateros",
        which are small private water suppliers operating their own wells and providing piped water to
        approximately 400,000 households in areas not served by the public provider. The law contains
        provisions for the government to enter into contracts with the "aguateros", by which they acquire a
        10-year concession. This solution constitutes a realistic approach to provide water service to
        population not served by the official provider. The customers of the "aguateros" are generally
        satisfied with the level of service received. In contrast with the consensus with the "aguateros",
        there seems to be a lack of consensus with the municipalities about who should have the regulatory
        authority over assigning water concessions. This is still an issue of political debate today.

        The enactment of Law 1615/2000 authorized the government to transform CORPOSANA into a
        private company, ESSAP S.A., that should sign a concession contract with the government to
        provide water and sanitation services. The law authorized the government to sell to private
        investors the existing shares of ESSAP S.A. or to increase its capitalization through the issuance of
        new shares. This authorization constituted a first step toward concessioning CORPOSANA's
        operation to a private operator and toward increasing the service provider's autonomy. The
        concession to a private operator did not take place because Congress issued a new law (Law
        1932/200) suspending Law 1615/2000. The Paraguayan Congress is currently considering
        reversing this Law and hence clear the way to concession ESSAP;
   l providing training to strengthen the capacity of the new regulatory entity for the water sector. The
        project provided training to the members of ERSSAN's board and staff. The training included a
        course delivered by Universidad Argentina de la Empresa, visits to regulators in Greater Buenos
        Aires (ETOSS), Mendoza and Salta in Argentina, and visits to the Regulatory Commission in
        Colombia;
   l developing regulations to the water regulatory framework. ERSSAN with the assistance of
        consultants under the project issued in October 2002 regulations on: tariffs, quality of the services,
        user's rights and obligations, and sanctions to service providers not complying with the required
        service standards;
   l carrying out financial, technical, legal, and labor assessments of CORPOSANA. The government
        hired financial and legal advisors for the concessioning of ESSAP S.A. (former CORPOSANA).
        The advisors successfully assisted the government in preparing the bidding documents and in
        prequalifying six international firms; and
   l designing and implementing a program to assist redundant CORPOSANA employees in making the
        transition to alternative jobs. There were 400 mutually agreed separations, which were carried-out
        with incentives paid out of CORPOSANA's funds. No training was provided under the project.

B. Expansion of the sewerage system in Asuncion (See Part B of the original project.)

C. Civil works in Encarnacion (See Part C of the original project.)

D. Helping the borrower to strengthen the regulatory framework and to introduce private sector
participation in ANTELCO, which includes technical assistance for:

   l Carrying out preparatory studies and strengthening the regulatory framework. This project
        component was satisfactorily implemented with the help of consultants assisting the government in
        carrying out studies for opening the telecommunications market and for rationalizing tariffs.
        CONATEL drafted the necessary regulations to implement the recommendations of the study. The
        regulations have yet to be implemented.


                                                     - 10 -

   l introducing private sector participation in ANTELCO. Law 1615/2000 authorized the government
         to transform ANTELCO into a private company (COPACO S.A.) that should sign a concession
         contract with the government to provide telecommunications services. The law authorized the
         government to sell to private investors the existing shares of COPACO S.A. or to increase its
         capitalization through the issuance of new shares. This authorization constituted a first step
         toward concessioning 's operation to a private operator and toward increasing the service provider's
         autonomy; and
   l in addition, the government hired financial and legal advisors for concessioning COPACO S.A.
         The advisors successfully assisted the government in preparing the bidding documents, in
         prequalifying five international firms and in requesting proposals to the prequalified firms. The
         competition for the concession to private sector providers was cancelled shortly before the
         submission of proposals because of the enactment of Law 1932/2000 suspending Law 1615/2000;
         and
   l designing and implementing a program to assist redundant COPACO S.A. employees in making
         the transition to alternative jobs. This project component was not implemented, as there were no
         personnel redundancies. There were 800 mutually agreed separations which were carried out, with
         incentives paid out of COPACO's funds.

E. Strengthening the government institutional capacity to implement reform, which includes establishing a
master level program in public administration. This project component was only partially implemented as
there was political opposition because of its weak connection with the overall project objectives. At the
end, the loan financed US$82,000 for the tuition of 25 government officials participating in a
2-semester master program in public administration carried by the Universidad Catolica of Paraguay.

However, the program was established and is now providing training to the second group of government
officials, and the tuition is being covered by the government agencies employing the participants. The
program addresses a major issue in Paraguay, which is the lack of qualified professionals for middle
management positions in the public sector.

F. Operating the new Project Implementation Unit. The project implementation arrangements were
promising, as the responsibility for bringing private sector participation to public enterprises, including
both the water and telecom companies was entrusted to the Secretaria Nacional de la Reforma del Estado
(SNRE) under a General Secretary with minister status, reporting directly to the President of the Republic.
The arrangement was effective while the government had political support, but it had to be dismantled at
the end of the government, mainly because of the strong opposition to the privatization process and because
allegations of corruption. The functions of SNRE were transferred to the Ministry of Public Works and
Communications.

G. Reaching the public and facilitating understanding and consensus regarding the reform program. The
government hired a consulting firm to assist in:

   l developing and implementing a communication strategy;
   l designing, producing and disseminating information on the reform program;
   l designing and carrying out surveys; and
   l designing and carrying out seminars, training activities and conferences.


The scope of work was carried out only partially as the parties were not in agreement on how to approach
the task.




                                                      - 11 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR does not include NPV or economic rate of return estimates either for the proposed sewerage
scheme in Asuncion or for the Encarnacion project component. The SAR only states that the proposed
sewerage scheme for Asuncion, that comprises the bulk of project investment, was the least-cost solution.
The ex-post NPV or the economic rate of return for this scheme are not estimated because the investments
are not generating positive cash flows and there is no indication about the timing for carrying out the
investments required to make the scheme operative and able to generate positive cash flows. No attempt
was made to estimate the ex-post NPV or the economic rate of return for the Encarnacion project
component considering the small size of the investment and its distribution among several infrastructure
works.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return for the Asuncion scheme was estimated in the SAR at 11%. No estimate was
made in the SAR for the Encarnacion project component. No ex-post NPV or financial rate of return were
estimated for the reasons explained in paragraph 4.3.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project institutional development impact was negligible under the original project and modest under the
restructured project. CORPOSANA, the borrower and executing agency under the original project, was
unable to implement the agreed upon set of reforms which included: (i) implementing financial policies
adequate to ensure its financial viability; (ii) implementing managerial and operational practices aiming at
making a more effective use of its human and financial resources; (iii) decentralizing its operations; and (iv)
hiring private firms for the provision of services. The lack of progress in these areas is at the root of the
project implementation problems which led, first, to a suspension of loan disbursements and, second, to the
restructuring of the project.

The institutional development impact under the restructured project is considered modest taking into
account that the government, despite commendable efforts, was able to implement only one element -- the
regulatory element -- of the reform package and not the second element -- delegating the provision of water
and telecom services to private firms. This experience illustrates the power of organized groups opposing
reform and the political sensitivities of the process. In this case, the suppliers of the utilities and other
interest groups were able to mobilize substantial resources to stop the privatization process. The unions
reached agreement with the government after difficult negotiations.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Bank's 1993 CAS for Paraguay referred to the country's satisfactory economic policies of the early
1990s but, at the same time, stresses the difficulties facing the government in implementing reform and
Bank-financed projects. The difficulties stressed in the CAS, which, in fact, affected project
implementation included the following. First, the country was emerging from a 35-year dictatorship and
was undergoing a major political transition. Second, the president, who was elected in 1993, did not enjoy
a majority in Congress. And, third, the Bank had not made new commitments to Paraguay for several
years and, as a consequence, the country exhibited the characteristics of a new Bank borrower ­ the most
difficult being the absence of a network of officials familiar with Bank policies and operational procedures.
The political environment did not improve much during project implementation - particularly during the last
two administrations (Cubas Grau from May 1998 to March 1999 and Gonzalez Macchi from March 1999
to August 2003) and thus the prospects for reform did not improve during the life of the project. The
assassination of the Vice President of the Republic in March 1999 had a major impact on the country's
political environment.



                                                      - 12 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The implementation and outcome of the original project were negatively affected by the government
reluctance to implement financial policies consistent with the project requirements. Also, CORPOSANA's
performance was affected by frequent management changes: eight presidents during the implementation
period covering both the original and the restructured project.

The restructured project benefited from strong support from the President of the Republic and by a strong
SNRE but this was not enough to overcome the opposition to the government's reform program.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
CORPOSANA's long bureaucratic tradition without customer orientation was an important factor affecting
project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The cost of the original project was estimated at US$72.2 million to be financed by CORPOSANA,
US$5.7 million; the European Investment Bank, US$20.0 million; and the World Bank loan, US$46.5
million. The total investment at the time of the project restructuring amounted to US$19.3 million,
financed by the Bank loan US$17.4 million and by CORPOSANA US$1.9 million. The EIB loan was not
disbursed, as it was allocated to the financing of sewer contracts which were not implemented.

The total investment under the restructured project, including the investments already made under the
original project, amounted to US$26.3 million financed by the Bank loan US$24.4 million and
CORPOSANA US$1.9 million. US$15 million of the original Bank loan were cancelled at the time of
project restructuring and an additional US$7.1 million of the restructured loan was not utilized.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the accomplishments of the restructured project is rated unlikely. This rating takes
into account that Paraguay is a country with little tradition of politically independent government agencies
and, thus, the prospects of independent regulators are low, particularly taking into account that the service
providers are also government agencies. In this respect, it is important to highlight that the House of
Representatives recently approved a draft law amending ERSSAN's law. The amendment will make the
appointments of the members of ERSSAN's board to coincide with the presidential period. This draft law
is currently under consideration in the Senate. The proposed legislation would put the water and sanitation
regulator in a similar position to the telecommunication sector regulator. The government also has
currently the option to curtail the autonomy of the regulators by modifying their budget proposals before
submitting them to Congress through the Ministry of Finance.

The transformation of ANTELCO and CORPOSANA into corporations is to a large extent a formality as
both COPACO S.A. (former ANTELCO) and ESSAP S.A. (former CORPOSANA) continue operating as
public enterprises without increased autonomy. A recent example of this lack of autonomy are the
procurement procedures, which are the same as the ones applicable to the government (law 2051 of 2003).

The sustainability of the master program in public administration is an open question, as it has yet to find a
source of funding more reliable than the government budget. Some of the international instructors bring
their own funding.




                                                     - 13 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
ERSSAN's board has made significant progress in setting-up the physical installations and in appointing
and providing training to 16 staff members (mainly economists and engineers). ERSSAN's board intention
is to maintain a lean organization and to use as much as possible specialized consultants for specific tasks.
Two immediate tasks for ERSSAN are the completion of the inventory of water service providers, that the
entity estimates in about 2,000, including "aguateros" and "juntas", and the preparation of detailed
procedures for tariff setting. These two tasks are proving to be challenging because of financial constraints
and time-consuming procurement procedures. ERSSAN's board is seeking external assistance to
accelerate this work. CONATEL is an organization with a track record of several years and its operations
were not significantly affected by the project.

The issue of public enterprise reform continues being an important element of the political debate in
Paraguay. The outcome of this debate is, however, uncertain as both politicians and public opinion are
highly polarized on the issue. Perhaps the most important driver of the debate is the case of ESSAP S.A.,
as a consequence of its high level of indebtedness, its inability to service fully its debts and, thus, the
burden it represents on the government budget. CORPOSANA's debts at the end of 2002 amounted to
about US$195 million or more than twice the debt at the beginning of the project while its annual billing
amounted to US$25 million which is only a 60% higher than the billing at the beginning of the project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during preparation of the original project was highly unsatisfactory because of the
failure to take adequately into account in the design of the project the evidence available in the Bank at the
time of appraisal regarding the constraints limiting public sector reform and productive spending. This
point is illustrated by the public expenditures review in the social sectors in Paraguay in 1992, which
indicated that: "Because the government's social sectors spending is low, an obvious recommendation
would be to increase spending. However, this may not be a wise option in the short term. It is not that the
Authorities are unwilling to spend more in these sectors. Rather, because of bitter past experience and
still-weak planning, budgeting and implementation in the public sector, they are afraid that resources will
be wasted." The poverty assessment report of 1994 confirmed the constraints by indicating that
"policy/decision-making, and professional and technical skills are rare commodities in the public sector.
Thus the pace of any important reform is likely to be slow."

The Bank also failed in giving appropriate weight to the lessons to be learned from CORPOSANA's history
and from OED's evaluation reports. Regarding CORPOSANA's history it was clear that, despite many
years of IDB financing and conditionality, CORPOSANA continued being managerially and financially
weak. Regarding OED evaluation reports, the SAR claimed to have given adequate consideration to the
findings of the 1992 OED water sector report. The SAR mentioned, in particular, the emphasis given to
institutional objectives, cost recovery and cash generation. This claim was, however, not supported by the
characteristics of the project design, as discussed earlier in this ICR.

The Bank's performance during preparation of the restructured project was satisfactory as the Bank seized
the window of opportunity offered by a reformist government. The Bank also understood that the
restructured project was a "high-risk-high-reward opportunity" and that it was necessary to provide a rapid
response to the government request for support. However, with the benefit of hindsight, the decision to
circumvent the existing agreement between the government and the Bank to withhold the preparation of


                                                     - 14 -

new operations is questionable taking into account that there was no sufficient evidence of institutional
conditions leading to the success of the restructured project. The outcome of the restructured project
confirms the absence of the required institutional conditions. Failing to achieve the objectives of the
restructured project was a significant loss for the country and for the Bank. For the country the negative
impacts are twofold. One, the disruptive effects of the incomplete reform process on the operations of the
affected companies. These disruptions are a direct consequence of the uncertainties about the company and
staff's future. And, two, the negative reflection of the aborted process on the business community's
perception about the political climate in the country. For the Bank, it could have reduced its credibility as a
catalyst of international business opportunities.

7.2 Supervision:
The Quality Supervision Assessment (QSA 5) rated project supervision as satisfactory overall. This rating
is based mainly on the supervision of the restructured project. This ICR agrees with this rating. The ICR
considers, however, that the supervision of the original project was unsatisfactory. The uneven Bank's
performance is reflected in the amount of Bank's resources allocated to supervision. First, the average
annual Bank's expenditures in supervision during the initial 4.5 years of project implementation, which
correspond to the original project, amounted to US$51,000 per year, while during the second 4.5 years,
which correspond to the restructured project, the supervision expenditures amounted to US$153,000 per
year. Second, there were substantial gaps between supervision missions during the implementation of the
original project: a 17-month gap between the June 1996 and November 1997 missions; and a 16-month gap
between the December 1998 and April 2000 missions. One explanation given for the low-intensity
supervision of the original project was that the project was a traditional investment project without much
complexity. This explanation fails, however, to take into account two fundamental considerations. First,
that an important project objective was the reform of CORPOSANA, including the decentralization of its
operations, and the participation of the private sector in the provision of water services. And, second, that
CORPOSANA was a managerial and financially weak organization. This low-intensity supervision may
help to explain the Bank's failure to recognize at an early stage of project implementation that the problems
facing the project were rooted in its unsatisfactory design, that is, a project requiring a managerial and
financial capacity beyond the possibilities of CORPOSANA. This recognition could have led to earlier
decisions regarding project restructuring.

CORPOSANA's lack of compliance with the loan covenants was an issue since very early in project
implementation. The covenants out of compliance included mainly the implementation of a plan to
implement a new billing, collection and implementation system; carrying out projects not listed in the
Project Implementation Letter and incurring in debts above the limits established in the letter; reducing the
level of accounts receivable. These factors together with the delays in implementing required tariff
adjustments led to CORPOSANA's poor financial performance.

A decision that deserves explanation is the completion of the tunnel which was not going to enter into
operation as a result of the project restructuring. This decision was carefully considered and, on the basis
of consultant's studies, the Bank concluded that it would be more costly to cancel the contract and to leave
the tunnel unfinished than to finish the contract and take measures to protect the completed tunnel.

QSA5 commended the region for the resources and energy that it devoted to the supervision of the
restructured project so as to maximize the chances of achieving the intended reform objectives. The QSA5
panel also indicated that if any faults may be found in this strategy they would lie in the extensive and very
close involvement of the Bank in the decisions that were taken on the privatization




                                                     - 15 -

process. Such degree of involvement might, in the view of the panel, have stood in the way of wider
ownership by all key Paraguayan stakeholders and could have posed reputation risks to the Bank. The ICR
shares the panel observations.

A fraud detected in the use of the loan proceeds deposited in the Special Account points toward a likely
weakness in the supervision of the project financial management, as it failed to detect the fraudulent use of
about US$390,000 from the Special Account. This fraud was carried out through four different
transactions taking place between August 2001 and March 2002. On the positive side, it is important to
highlight that the agreement reached with SNRE to reduce the size of the Special Account from US$1.0
million to US$200,000 appeared to be an important factor in precipitating the discovery of the fraud. The
Borrower promptly informed the Bank and the project team immediately notified the Bank's anti-corruption
unit about the fraud. The government has reimbursed the amount stolen to the Bank. On the negative side,
it is important to highlight the delay in the audit of the project and of the Special Account. The Special
Account was established in September 2000 and the first audit of the project and of the Special Account
was done in 2002. The Bank accepted to combine the 2000 and 2001 audits because during the
September-December 2000 period there were virtually no transactions. A special audit was requested by
the Bank in June 2002, following the fraud, but it was not completed until December 2003. This delay was
due to the restrictions imposed by Law 1932/2002 that suspended all contracting and payments under the
project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. This rating assigns a heavy weight to the unsatisfactory
lending performance, as the poor quality of project design is at the root of the unsatisfactory project
outcomes and of the inefficient utilization of the proceeds of part of the loan and of its local counterpart.
This inefficiency is reflected particularly in the high opportunity cost of the investments in a tunnel which is
unlikely to generate any benefits in the immediate future, and in the high cost of a project management unit
designed to manage an investment program several orders of magnitude larger than the one finally
implemented. Bank's performance under the restructured project was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was unsatisfactory. This rating takes into account that the
Borrower failed to appreciate fully the financial and institutional complexities of the project despite its
decades of experience with IDB-financed projects, and the poor financial record of CORPOSANA.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government implementation performance was unsatisfactory. This rating is heavily weighted by the
performance under the original project, as it failed to take the necessary actions to strengthen
CORPOSANA's financial and managerial capabilities in line with the requirements of the project. The
government's performance under the restructured project was on balance satisfactory. On the positive side,
it showed strong commitment to the objectives of the project and the failure to achieve them was due to
reasons beyond the government's control, that is, the loss of political support in Congress. On the negative
side, weaknesses in government's performance included the issue of the payments to the notary (Section
4.1), the inability of SNRE to wage an effective public information campaign, and the lack of support by
SNRE to the master in public administration project component.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
CORPOSANA's performance under the original project was highly unsatisfactory. SNRE's performance



                                                       - 16 -

under the restructured project was satisfactory. In fact, SNRE took promptly a number of important and
complex actions to implement the project, including the hiring of consultants for the privatization
transactions. A major weakness of SNRE was the failure of its internal control systems to prevent the
embezzlement of funds from the Special Account.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance was unsatisfactory. This rating takes into account the weaknesses in project
preparation and in the implementation of the original project. Although, the borrower's performance under
the restructured project was highly satisfactory regarding the execution of the technical assistance, it ended
up unsatisfactory due to: (i) the fact that the financial control did not avoid the fraud; and (ii) the failure to
make payments owed to consultants before the closing of the Loan Account.

8. Lessons Learned

The following are lessons learned from this project.

 l Project design: a) Over ambitious project objectives are likely to do more harm than good, as there
      is the risk of none achieving them or, in the worst case, to leave unfinished investments yielding little
      or no economic return; b) multiple project objectives are likely to end-up in failure to achieve them if
      there is not an adequate prioritization or if there are no adequate criteria to resolve potential conflicts
      among objectives; and c) lending large amounts of money to an utility that historically has been
      unable to generate funds for investments and to service its debts is a major risk for the borrowing
      country, as it is likely that the government end-up servicing the debt.
 l Technical assistance: a) technical assistance is not an effective method to mitigate project risks
      related to adverse public opinion and political opposition to reform; and b) technical assistance is not
      an effective method to turn around a utility which for years had been inefficient and financially weak.

 l Bank's knowledge: a) ignoring evidence available in the Bank in documents like CAS and Public
      Expenditure Reviews regarding the viability of sector reform is likely to result in poor quality
      projects; and b) paying pro-forma attention to the lessons in OED evaluation reports is likely to
      result in poor quality projects.
 l Water supply markets: the Paraguayan government decision to enter into agreements with currently
      informal service providers is an approach which could help in accelerating the provision of water and
      sanitation services to population without adequate service.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See report on Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable. The loan of the European Investment Bank was not disbursed.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                      - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Original project:

A. Helping the borrower to improve the                                     Neither private sector participation nor
provision of water and sewerage services                                   decentralization were accomplished.
through policy and institutional reform.




B. Improving the health conditions and quality                             No households in Asuncion was connected
of life in Asuncion through the provision of                               to the sewerage system as a result of the
sewerage infrastructure.                                                   project.

C. Improving the living conditions in                                      600 households in Encarnacion benefited
Encarnacion through the provision of basic                                 from basic infrastructure built under the
infrastructure.                                                            project.

Restructured project:

A. Improving the provision of water services                               (i) Congress enacted a law establishing the
in the country by strengthening the regulatory                             regulatory framework for the water and
framework and by introducing private sector                                sanitation sector, and the regulatory agency
participation in the water sector.                                         (ERSSAN).
                                                                           (ii) Congress enacted a law authorizing the
                                                                           government to transform CORPOSANA into
                                                                           a private company, ESSAP.
                                                                           (iii) The members of ERSSAN's board and
                                                                           the staff benefited from training under the
                                                                           project.
                                                                           (iv) ERSSAN issued regulations on: tariffs,
                                                                           quality of services, user's rights and
                                                                           obligations, and sanctions for not compliance
                                                                           with service standards.
                                                                           (vi) There were no redundancies and thus
                                                                           training was not provided.

B. Improving the health conditions and quality                             See Part B of the original project.
of life in Asuncion through the provision of
sewerage services.

C. Improving the living conditions of about                                See Part C of the original project.
3,000 inhabitants in the city of Encarnacion
(original objective that had already been met
at the time of project restructuring).

D. Improving the provision of                                              (i) COPACO S.A. carried out studies for
telecommunications services by                                             opening the telecommunications market and
strengthening the regulatory framework and                                 for rationalizing tariffs, and drafted the
by introducing private sector participation in                             necessary regulations to implement the
ANTELCO.                                                                   recommendations of the study.
                                                                           (ii) Congress enacted a law authorizing the
                                                                           government to transform ANTELCO into a
                                                                           private company, COPACO S.A. COPACO
                                                                           signed a concession contract with the
                                                                           government for the provision of the
                                                                           telecommunications service.
                                                                           (iii) There were no redundancies and thus
                                                                           training was not provided.




                                                        - 18 -

E. Strengthening the government's                             25 government official were trained in public
institutional capacity to implement reform.                   administration in a 2-semester master
                                                              program.

F. Operating the new Project Implementation                   The government established the Secretaria
Unit at the General Secretariat of the                        Nacional de la Reforma del Estado, reporting
Presidency of the Republic.                                   directly to the President of the Republic, and
                                                              entrusted it with the responsibility for project
                                                              implementation.

G. Reaching out to the public and facilitating                A communication program was partially
understanding and consensus regarding the                     implemented.
reform program.




1. No logical framework in the appraisal report.
2. No outcome indicators available in the PSR.




                                                    - 19 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Original project:

A. Helping the borrower to improve the
provision of water and sewerage services
through policy and institutional reform.


(i) Developing and implementing proposals to                                CORPOSANA prepared a pilot project to
decentralize CORPOSANA's operations.                                        decentralize the provision of water and sewer
                                                                            services and introduce private sector
                                                                            participation in two cities. The
                                                                            recommendations were not implemented.

(ii) Carrying out an analysis and evaluation of                             (ii) CORPOSANA prepared terms of
options for private sector participation in                                 reference for contracting out the billing and
sector activities, and implementing the                                     collection functions. No further action was
recommendations emerging from the                                           taken.
analysis.

(iii) Preparing program to improve                                          Not implemented.
CORPOSANA' s corporate planning, and
budgetary system.

(iv) Carrying out studies on sectorization,                                 CORPOSANA carried out the studies and
macro-metering, leak detection, and                                         partially implemented their recommendations.
commercial systems.

(v) Designing and implementing a tariff                                     Not implemented.
structure to reflect the economic cost of the
services.

(vi) Developing and implementing up-to-date                                 Not implemented.
personnel policies.

(vii) Developing and implementing a training                                Not implemented.
program.


B. Improving the health conditions and quality
of life in Asuncion through the provision of
sewerage infrastructure.

(i) Providing 50,000 sewerage house                                         Not implemented.
connections.

(ii) Constructing 550 km of secondary                                       Not implemented.
sewage collectors.

(iii) Constructing 3.2 kms of tunnel.                                       Completed.

(iv) Installing a sewage screening device                                   Not implemented
along with the construction of a new sewage
outfall into the Paraguay River.

(v) Rehabilitating and expanding three                                      Not implemented.
sewage outfalls into the Paraguay River.

(vi) Designing a control and monitoring                                     Not implemented.
system to control hazardous and toxic
chemicals from industrial wastes.

C. Improving the living conditions in                                       Water supply, latrines and improved roads
Encarnacion through the provision of basic                                  were built under the project.
infrastructure.




                                                         - 20 -

Restructured project:
A. Improving the provision of water services                      The government hired financial and legal
in the country by strengthening the regulatory                    advisors for concessioning ESSAP S.A.,
framework and by introducing private sector                       drafted biding documents and prequalified six
participation in the water sector.                                international firms.


B. Improving the health conditions and quality                    See part B of the original project.
of life in Asuncion through the provision of
sewerage services.

C. Improving the living conditions of about                       See part C of the original project.
3,000 inhabitants in the city of Encarnacion
(original objective that had already been met
at the time of project restructuring).

D. Improving the provision of
telecommunications services by
strengthening the regulatory framework and
by introducing private sector participation in
ANTELCO.

(i) Carrying out preparatory studies and                          ANTELCO prepared studies for opening the
strengthening the regulatory framework.                           telecommunications market and for
                                                                  rationalizing tariffs.

(ii) Introducing private sector participation in                  The government hired financial advisors for
ANTELCO.                                                          concessioning COPACO S.A. (former
                                                                  ANTELCO) , prepared bidding documents
                                                                  for the concession, prequalified five
                                                                  international firms and requested proposals
                                                                  to the prequalified bids. The bid was later
                                                                  cancelled.

E. Strengthening the government's                                 The loan financed US$82,000 for the tuition
institutional capacity to implement reform.                       of the government officials participating in a
                                                                  master program.

F. Operating the new Project Implementation                       SNRE was entrusted by the government with
Unit at the General Secretariat of the                            the responsibility to implement the project.
Presidency of the Republic.


G. Reaching out to the public and facilitating                    SNRE hired a consulting firm to assist in the
understanding and consensus regarding the                         implementation of the public information
reform program.                                                   program. The scope of work of the
                                                                  consultant was carried out only partially
                                                                  because of disagreements between the
                                                                  consultant and SNRE.




1End of project
1. No logical framework in the Staff Appraisal Report.
 2. No outputs indicators in the PSR.



                                                        - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
A. Water Sector Reform                                         1.50            1.30            86
B. Expansion of Sewerage System in Asuncion                   69.00          19.30             28
C. Civil Works in Encarnacion                                  1.10            1.10           100
D. Telecommunications Sector Reform                            0.00            2.20
E. Public Administration                                       0.00            0.10
F. Project Management and Supervision                          0.00            0.80
G. Public Information Campaign                                 0.00            0.90
H. Project Preparation Advance                                 0.60            0.60


Total Baseline Cost                                           72.20          26.30
 Physical Contingencies                                        0.00
 Price Contingencies                                           0.00
                         Total Project Costs                  72.20          26.30
                  Total Financing Required                    72.20          26.30
Appraisal estimates based on the original project.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            61.60            2.00          0.00         0.00       63.60
                                   (38.90)           (1.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)    (39.90)
2. Goods                             1.20            0.40          0.20         0.00        1.80
                                    (1.20)           (0.40)      (0.20)         (0.00)     (1.80)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          6.80         0.00        6.80
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.80)         (0.00)     (4.80)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                            62.80            2.40          7.00         0.00       72.20
                                   (40.10)           (1.40)      (5.00)         (0.00)    (46.50)




                                                  - 22 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 14.60              1.10              0.00             0.00             15.70
                                          (12.70)            (1.10)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (13.80)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.84             0.00              0.84
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.84)            (0.00)           (0.84)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              9.00             0.00              9.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (9.00)            (0.00)           (9.00)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.16             0.60              0.76
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.16)            (0.60)           (0.76)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               14.60              1.10             10.00             0.60             26.30
                                          (12.70)            (1.10)           (10.00)            (0.60)           (24.40)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Part A. Water Sector           1.50         0.00         0.00        1.30         0.00       0.00       86.7      0.0       0.0
Reform - Tech. Assist.
Part B. Expansion of the      43.50         5.60        20.00       17.40         1.90       0.00       40.0      33.9      0.0
Sewerage System in
Asuncion
Part C. Civil Works in         0.90         0.10         0.00        1.10         0.00       0.00       122.2     0.0       0.0
Encarnacion
Part D. Telecom. Sector        0.00         0.00         0.00        2.20         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Reform - Tech. Assist.
Part E. Public                 0.00         0.00         0.00        0.08         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Administration Training
Part F. Project Magt. and      0.00         0.00         0.00        0.80         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Supervision
Part G. Public Info.           0.00         0.00         0.00        0.90         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Campaign
Refunding PPA                  0.60         0.00         0.00        0.62         0.00       0.00       103.3     0.0       0.0
TOTAL COST                    46.50         5.70        20.00       24.40         1.90       0.00       52.5      33.3      0.0

  Appraisal estimates based on the original project.



                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              September 1992            1    Sr. Water Engineer (1)
              July 1993                 2    Sr. Water Engineer (1); Financial
                                             Analyst (1)
              September 1993            2    Sr. Water Engineer (1); Financial
                                             Analyst (2)
              November 1993             3    Sr. Water Engineer (1); Financial
                                             Analyst (1); Institutional
                                             Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              May 1994                  2    Sr. Water Engineer (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1)

 Supervision

              11/10/1995                1    Sr. Financial Engineer (1)            S               S
              06/10/1996                2    Financial Analyst (1) Sr.             S               S
                                             Sanitary Engineer (1)
              11/28/1997                3    Environmental Engineer (1);           U               U
                                             Financial Analyst (1); San.
                                             Eng./Team Leader (1)
              04/27/1998                2    Engineering (1); Financial            U               U
                                             Analysis (1)
              12/11/1998                2    Engineer - Task Manager (1);          U               U
                                             Financial Analyst (1)
              04/28/2000                4    Engineer - Team Leader (1); Sr.       S               S
                                             Consultant (1); Communications
                                             Spec. (1); PS Development Spec.
                                             (1)
              02/16/2001                2    Team Leader (1); PS                   S               S
                                             Development Spec. (1)
              04/11/2002                3    TTL (1); Water Subsidies (1);         S               S
                                             Water Investment Progr (1)
              11/22/2002                2    TTL (1); Telecom Specialist (1)       U               S
              11/07/2003                4    TTL (1); FM Especialist (1); Sr.      U               S
                                             W&S Specialist (1); Sector
                                             Leader (1)


 ICR
              May 2004                  2     Sanitary Engineer (1);
                                              Financial Analyst (1)




                                              - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               58                          176
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    48                          113
  Supervision                            205                           918
  ICR                                       6                           17
  Total                                  317                         1,224




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Paraguay - Country Economic Memorandum, Report No. 9147-PA, October 15, 1991.

Paraguay - Public Espenditure Review: The Social Sectors, Report No. 10193-PA, June 16, 1992.

Paraguay - Country Assistance Strategy (included in the Staff Appraisal Report for the Eight Highway
           Project, Report No. P-5916-PA, November 24, 1993).

Paraguay - Poverty and the Social Sectors in Paraguay: A Poverty Assessment, Report No. 12293-PA,
           June 29, 1994.

Paraguay - Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 16346-PA, March 6, 1997.

PSRs, aide memoires and other documents in the Project File.




                                                 - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report

1. Objectives of the Project

The proposed restructuring would amend and extend the objectives of the original project. The revised
objectives of the Project to assist the Borrower are:

     (a) To assist the Borrower to improve the provision of urban water and sewerage services within its
           territory, through the participation of the private sector in the provision of water and sewerage
           services;
     (b) to improve the living conditions of about 3,000 inhabitants in the city of Encarnación through the
           construction of infrastructure works;
     (c) to improve the regulatory framework of the Borrower's telecommunications sector and promote
           private sector participation in the sector; and
     (d) to strengthen the administrative capacity of civil servants in order to assist the Borrower in the
           implementation of its public sector reforms.

2. Description of the Restructured Project

Part A ­technical assistance for Institutional Development would be replaced by Water Sector Reform
Sector. In Part B - Expansion of the Sewerage System in Asunción - only component B4 (construction of a
tunnel for US$12.3 million) and B8 (technical assistance to carry out the supervision of works for US$4.7
million) would be retained because the works have already been contracted. Part C - Civil Works in
Encarnación- would be retained because the works have been completed (for US$1.1 million). The total
amount for components A, B, D, E, F, and G is US$18.1 million. The appropriation for components A, D,
E, F, and G of the reform of the water and telecommunications sectors is US$12.6 million.

The amended Project would include the following new components, subject to such modifications thereof as
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve the objectives.

        Part A: Water Sector Reform
        Part B: Expansion of the Sewerage System in Asunción
        Part D: Telecommunications Sector Reform
        Part E: Public Administration
        Part F: Project Management and Supervision
        Part G: Public Information Campaign

Part A: Water Sector Reform (US$3.6 million)

This component will finance the technical assistance to strengthen the regulatory framework in the water
sector and concession the services provided by CORPOSANA to a private operator. The technical
assistance in this component will include, inter alia, the following activities:

    1. Design of a water and sewerage sector strategy, including a strategy to concession the water and
        sewerage services provided by CORPOSANA.

    2. Strengthening of the institutional and operational capacity of the regulatory agency to be
        established as referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to the Agreement, through the



                                                      - 30 -

         provision of technical assistance and training required for this purpose.

    3. Design of regulations to the legal and regulatory framework.

    4. Carrying out of a financial, operational and legal assessment of CORPOSANA, including a
         specific assessment of the current contractual relationship between CORPOSANA and its
         employees.

    5. Hiring of financial and legal advisors to assist the Borrower in the concessioning of the water and
        sewerage services provided by CORPOSANA.

    6. Design and implementation of a program which consists of, inter alia, the provision of
         training to CORPOSANA's employees (who have met the criteria set forth in the
         Training Manual) to allow such employees to make a transition to an alternative
         employment in the same or a different sector of the Borrower's economy.

COMMENTS: In order to devise a strategy to concession the water and sewerage services provided by
CORPOSANA and to guide future discussions with the Investment Bank, an international consultant was
hired to prepare the financial projections model for the services provided by CORPOSANA, bearing in
mind the need for improved operational efficiency, employee productivity, and goals for service coverage
and quality.

This consultant's service produced the first financial-model-based quantification study on investment needs
in the sector. The significance of this is that the Paraguayan Government previously did not have a
meaningful investment assessment, or basic guidelines for a strategy for the sector. Another benefit from
the financial perspective is that the study made it possible to establish tariffs, thereby rounding out the
model.

The Investment Bank that acted as financial adviser to the Government and, among other things, promoted
the sale of the company, attracted the interest of 13 top-level international companies for the purchase of
ESSAP's share package; of those, four firms were pre-qualified. Together with the legal advisers, the
consultant set up the data room. As a result, an operational structure and a sectoral strategy are now in
place that are consistent with the strategy of the Government of the time, thus offering a possible solution
to the problems among the various operators in the sector, given the fact that the boundaries of the service
areas were never demarcated. The financial and legal advisers who prepared the bidding documents had to
overcome several hurdles to pre-qualify top-level international operators, without ignoring Article 111 of
the Constitution which requires that a preferential option be given to related sectors but not necessarily
operators. Moreover, the transformation of the enterprises into stock corporations made it possible to reveal
the balance sheets of both companies; have an accurate inventory of the assets; assess the value of the
companies; pay off almost 100% of the short-term liabilities; and draw up the concession agreements,
which in the case of COPACO has already been signed. All that is needed is a government decision to sign
the ESSAP concession agreement. Finally and as part of the process some 400 ESSAP employees left the
Company.

One outcome of this component was the establishment of the Water and Sewerage Regulatory Body
(ERSSAN). Furthermore, by retaining consultants to design and set it up, ERSSAN was created as a
modern, efficient body with a small, technical staff, and with clearly defined functions and responsibilities
for each executive director. The international consultant, Francisco Ochoa, was hired to design ERSSAN's
organizational structure and operational manuals. These documents were approved by decision of the


                                                      - 31 -

ERSSAN Board of Directors and have entered into full effect.

As part of the training program for ERSSAN board members, financing was provided for them to attend a
training course on water supply services regulation given in Buenos Aires, Argentina, by Universidad
Argentina de la Empresa, which specializes in this kind of training in the region. An internship was
organized with the regulatory bodies of the Provinces of Mendoza and Salta in Argentina, which are
recognized for their sound functioning, and which also resemble ERSSAN in size and characteristics.

ERSSAN convened a roundtable in San Bernardino, Paraguay, on October 25 and 26, 2001 as part of the
process of drafting regulations for Law 1614/2000. The meeting was attended by a committee appointed by
the Paraguayan Chamber of Water Service Providers (CAPA), representing the country's independent
private providers, as well as a group representing water and sewerage boards. The purpose of the meeting
was to consult the current providers on the following issues: (i) registration of providers as permit holders;
(ii) tariff structure; (iii) service quality standards; and (iv) ownership and management of assets. At the
start of the meeting, at the request of the representatives of CAPA, an item was added to the agenda
relating to exclusivity rights among service permit holders and future CORPOSANA concessionaires. The
meeting achieved its objective of conducting a broad consultation on the above-mentioned issues, which
was of great use to the regulatory body and the consultants that assisted it in preparing the regulations.

Part B: Expansion of the Sewerage System in Asuncion

     1. Construction of a 3.2 km and 2 m diameter trunk sewer (tunnel) in the Asuncion Metropolitan
          Area.
     2. Provision of Technical assistance to CORPOSANA (now ESSAP) to supervise the works under
          Part B.1 (including training of CORPOSANA staff, as necessary) and Part C.

Part C: Encarnación Works

Construction of infrastructure works including among others: (a) water supply and wastewater disposal;
(b) stormwater drainage and disposal of solid waste; and (c) a power distribution system to serve the
approximately 3,000 people benefiting from these Encarnación Works.

Comments: According to the information reviewed, these activities which are included in Law 1567/2000
and consist of the 3.2 km tunnel in Asunción and the Encarnación Works, located within the jurisdiction of
Ita Paso, were fully completed under the supervision and management of the private consultants selected
for these tasks.

Part D: Telecommunications Sector Reform (US$4.5 million)

Telecommunications sector reform and private sector participation in ANTELCO. The basic regulatory
framework in the telecommunications sector was created by the 1995 Telecommunications Law, which also
established a telecommunications regulatory body (CONATEL). However, the sector requires additional
comprehensive measures prior to private sector participation. This component would provide financing for
technical assistance to strengthen the regulatory framework in the telecommunications sector and promote
private sector participation in ANTELCO:

     1. Design of a strategy for the telecommunications sector, including options to promote private sector
          participation in ANTELCO.
     2. Strengthening of: (a) the regulatory framework governing the telecommunications sector; and (b)


                                                         - 32 -

         the institutional and operational capacity of CONATEL, through the provision of technical
         assistance and training.
     3. Carrying out of a financial, operational and legal assessment of ANTELCO, including a specific
         assessment of the current contractual relationship between ANTELCO and its employees.
     4. Contracting of financial and legal advisors to assist the Borrower in the implementation of the
         strategy referred to in Part D.1 above.
     5. Design and implementation of a program which consists of, inter alia, the provision of training to
         ANTELCO's employees (who have met the criteria set forth in the Training Manual) to allow such
         employees to make a transition to an alternative employment in the same or a different sector of the
         Borrower's economy.

The Investment Bank that acted as financial adviser to the Government and, among other things, promoted
the sale of the company, attracted the interest of six top-level international companies for the purchase of
COPACO's share package; of those, five companies were pre-qualified. Together with the legal advisers,
the consultant set up the data room. As a result, an operational structure and a sectoral strategy are now in
place that are consistent with the strategy of the Government of the time, thus offering a possible solution
to the problems among the various operators in the sector, given the fact that the boundaries of the service
areas were never demarcated. The financial and legal advisers who prepared the bidding documents had to
overcome several hurdles, to the pre-qualify top-level international operators without ignoring Article 111
of the Constitution, which requires that a preferential option be given to related sectors but not necessarily
operators. Moreover, the transformation of the enterprises into stock corporations made it possible to reveal
the balance sheets of both companies; have an accurate inventory of the assets; assess the value of the
companies; pay off almost 100% of the short-term liabilities; and draw up the concession agreements,
which in the case of COPACO has already been signed. Finally, some 800 COPACO employees left the
company during the preparation process.

International consultants were hired to design the plan for opening up the market. The plan detailed the
regulations necessary for an orderly opening up of the sector and rules governing the sector players:
consumers, operators, and the State. In this context, all the regulations recommended in the study have been
prepared by CONATEL within the framework of the recommendations and with financing supplied by
CONATEL. Given the time that has elapsed, there is a possibility that specialists will need to review the
regulations.

Part E: Public Administration (US$1.2 million)

Design and implementation of a higher education program in public administration for the benefit of civil
servants selected by the Borrower in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.

This component includes the creation of a master's degree program in public administration at a local
university. The aim is to boost the institutional capacity of the utility to carry out reforms and to create a
critical mass of mid- and top-level civil servants capable of efficiently managing the public sector in the
future. The program would offer courses in economics, public finance, public sector management, and
ethics. The program would be designed and managed in cooperation with a foreign university with
experience in this field in developing countries.

COMMENTS: This component was carried out and completed by the Universidad Católica in the Master's
Program on Politics and Public Administration from 2001 to 2003. Twenty-three members of the class
completed the course. The second program -PGR II- covering the period 2003-2005 is currently under way.




                                                     - 33 -

Part F: Project Management and Supervision (US$1 million)

COMMENTS: On the question of private sector participation in telecommunications services, the financial
advisers submitted a structure for the operation that capitalized the enterprise and sold the State's
remaining 50% interest. That is, through FCDs COPACO's reserve price was estimated at US$200
million. Accordingly, the share package was increased by a similar amount to be capitalized in investments.
Therefore, the ultimate value of the company was US$400 million. This solved the problem of the State's
cash shortage and the company's investment needs.

This component will provide financing for the operation of the new Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of
the National Secretariat for State Reform (SNRE). This part also includes strengthening of the capacity of
the PIU to monitor project activities.

COMMENTS: The PIU was set up with a basic staff of civil servants as determined in the restructuring
mission of November 22 to 24, 1999, which determined that the Unit should include at least: (i) a
coordinator; (ii) sectoral specialists; (iii) a financial analyst/economist; (iv) a legal adviser; (v) a public
communications specialist; (vi) an accountant/administrative supervisor in charge of administration,
accounts and the financial system; and (vii) a procurement specialist with experience in World Bank
projects. The PIU implemented complex contracting systems and managed within the deadline to retain all
the individual advisers and international firms of consultants necessary to carry out the activities. It should
be mentioned that in the case of implementing units set up for a specific purpose in institutions, such as the
SNRE, an internal audit unit should be included to prevent misuse of special account funds.

Part G: Public Information Campaign (US$2.3 million)

The loan agreement will provide financing for public information advisers and materials to determine
public perceptions on the reform of the water and telecommunications sectors. Additional objectives include
developing and implementing a communications strategy to ensure that the activities reach the public and to
facilitate understanding and consensus among the social sectors concerned. The assistance proposed would
provide financing for, inter alia, the following activities:

     1. Design of a communications strategy to carry out the campaign referred to in Part G.2
         below.
     2. Carrying out of a campaign to promote a discussion and build consensus among the
         population and stakeholders with respect to the reforms to be implemented in the
         water and telecommunications sectors, through, inter alia, consensus-building
         activities and seminars and the provision of training required therefore.
     3. Carrying out of surveys and focus group meetings to assess the perceptions of the
         population and stakeholders concerning the water and telecommunications reforms to
         Part G.2 above.

COMMENTS: A firm specializing in information campaigns was selected; however, this part was only
partially implemented because the SNRE authorities were not satisfied with the services rendered by the
firm selected. Accordingly, they rescinded the contract before its termination date. To avoid such problems
it is recommended that the contracting of communication strategy advisers and media contracting be kept
separate, so as to enable greater flexibility in rescinding contracts and hiring new advisers.




                                                        - 34 -

- 35 -

