                                                   THE WORLD          BANK
                                                    Washington,   D.C. 20433
                                                              U.S.A.



Office of the President




                             MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMIM[ENDATION
                                               IN RESPONSETO THE
                               INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT

                                                    PARAGUAY
                   REFORM PROJECT FOR THE WATER AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                          SECTORS(LOAN NO. 3842-PA)

                                                    ARGENTINA
                       SEGBA V POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT (LOAN NO. 2854-AR)


             1         Attached for consideration by the Executive Directors is Management's Report
             and Recommendation in responseto the Paraguay               - Reform Project for the Water and
             Telecommunications Sectors (Loan No. 3842~PA); and Argentina - SEGBA V Power
             Distribution Project (Loan No. 2854AR), (INS Report No. 27995, February 24,2004).

             2.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the actions and next steps set
             out in Section IV of the attachedManagement Report.




                                                                                    James D. Wolfensohn
                                                                                            President

                                                  Report No. INSP/R2004-0003




        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development




                                                                 INSP/RQ02/ 1
                                                              Report No. 27995




     MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION

                      IN RESPONSETO THE

       INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT



                            PARAGUAY
REFORM PROJECT FOR THE WATER AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                  SECTORS (LOAN NO. 3842-PA)

                            ARGENTINA
 SEGBAV POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT (LOAN NO. 2854-AR)




                            April 6,2004


              MANAGEMENT         REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                                IN RESPONSE TO THE
                  INSPECTION     PANEL   INVESTIGATION       REPORT

                                     PARAGUAY
   REFORM      PROJECT     FOR THE WATER         AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                           SECTORS (LOAN NO. 3842-PA)
                                     ARGENTINA
       SEGBA V POWER DISTRIBUTION             PROJECT     (LOAN NO. 28549AR)


Pursuant to paragraph23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel (IBRD
Resolution 93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6), attached for consideration by Executive
Directors is Management's Report and Recommendation in responseto the findings set
out in the Investigation Report No. 27995, dated February 24,2004, of the Inspection
Panel on the captioned Project: Paraguay - Reform Project for the Water and
Telecommunications Sectors (Loan No. 3842-PA); and Argentina - SEGBA V Power
Distribution Project (Loan No. 2854-AR).


               MANAGEMENT                    REPORT           AND RECOMMENDATION
                                          IN RESPONSE TO THE
                  INSPECTION                PANEL INVESTIGATION                             REPORT

                                                    PARAGUAY
    REFORM      PROJECT            FOR THE WATER                      AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
                                   SECTORS (LOAN NO. 3842-PA)
                                                   ARGENTINA
        SEGBA V POWER DISTRIBUTION                                 PROJECT            (LOAN NO. 2854-AR)


                                                      CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms ............................................................................................iv

List of Operational Policies, Operational Directives,
    Operational Manual Statements, and Operational Policy Notes..................................                                   iv

I.   Introduction ................................................................................................................... 1

II. Status of the Projects.....................................................................................................       1

III. Findings of the Panel ..................................................................................................      14

IV. Management's Action Plan in Response to the Findings ........................................... 19
V. Conclusion ..................................................................................................................27

Annexes

Annex 1. Findings, Comments and Actions
Annex 2. Background on Loans supporting the Yacyreta Project

Tables

Table 1.    Timeline of Key Events in the Yacyreta Project History
Table 2.    Families Resettled in Paraguay by Location
Table 3.    Relocation and Compensation of Brick and Roof-tile Enterprises in Paraguay
Table 4.    Summary of Actions

Figures

Figure 1. World Bank Support for Yacyreta
Figure 2.   Components of the Resettlement and Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
Figure 3.   Number of Affected Families in Paraguay

Maps

Map 1.      IBRD 33057 - Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project
Map 2.      IBRD 33058 -Existing and Expanded Sewer Network
Map 3.      IBRD 33056 - Cities of Encamacion and Cambyreta
Map 4.      IBRD 33005 - Clay Deposits



                                                             zzz
                                                              .. .

Argentina  and Paraguay                                                              IV




                            ABBREVIATIONS   AND ACRONYMS

BP                           Bank Procedures
EA                           Environmental Assessment
EBY                          Entidad Binacional Yacyreta
EMP                          Resettlement and Environmental Management Plan
ESSAP                        Empresa de Servicios Sanitarios de1 Paraguay (the State
                             water supply company)
FEDAYIM                      Federation de Afectados por Yacyreta de Itapua y Misiones
IBRD                         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                          Implementation Completion Report
IDA                          International Development Association
IDB                          Inter-American Development Bank
IPN                          Inspection Panel
M3/s                         Cubic meters per second
Masl                         Meters above sealevel
                             Megawatt
NGO                          Non-Governmental Organization
OD                           Operational Directive
OP                           Operational Policy
PARR                         Plan de Action para el Reasentamiento y la Rehabilitation
                             (Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan, component
                             of the EMP)
PDA                          Programa Desborde de Arroyos (Urban Creeks Program)
Plan A                       Pending Actions Program (1996)
Plan B                       Base Program (1997)
PM&IA                        Plan de Manejo de1Medio Ambiente (Environmental
                             Management Plan, component of the EMP)
SEGBA                        Servicios Electricos de1Gran Buenos Aires, S.A.
USD                          United States Dollars



                  OPERATIONAL POLICIES  AND OPERATIONAL     DIRECTIVES

OD 4.01, Environmental Assessment (October 1991)
OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement (June 1990)
OD/OP/BP 13.05, Project Supervision (March 1989 and July 2001)
OD 10.70, Monitoring and Evaluation (November 1989)

                                      I. INTRODUCTION

1       On May 30, 2002, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ02/1 (hereafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the Yacyreta
Hydroelectric Project (hereafter referred to as the "Project"). The Project has been partly
financed by several Bank loans- the Argentina Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project (Loan
No. 1761-AR, 1979), the Argentina Electric Power Sector I Project (Loan No. 2998-AR,
1988), the Argentina Second Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project (Loan No. 3520-AR, 1992),
and the Argentina SEGBA V Power Distribution Project (Loan No. 2854-AR, 1988). The
Paraguay Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications             Sectors (originally
called the Asuncion      Sewerage Project, Loan No. 3842-AR,           1995) financed the
infrastructure works for the benefit of about 3,000 people resettled in Encamacion,
Paraguay. The Request for Inspection was submitted by the Federation de Afectados por
Yacyreta    de Itapua    y  Misiones      (FEDAYIM),     a Paraguayan non-governmental
organization, and is linked to the last two projects mentioned. Six coordinators of
affected people also signed the Request (hereafter referred to asthe "Requesters").

2       The Executive Directors and the President of IBRD/IDA         were notified by the
Panel of receipt of the Request. In transmitting the Request to Management, the Panel
cited the Argentina SEGBA V Power Distribution           Project and the Paraguay Reform
Project for the Water and Telecommunications Sectors. Management responded to the
claims in the Request on July 10, 2002. In its Report to the Board, the Panel found the
Request eligible    and recommended that the Executive             Directors  authorize   an
investigation. The investigation was authorized by the Executive Directors on September
9,2002.

3       On February 24, 2004, the Panel issued its report outlining the findings of the
investigation. Management appreciates the Panel's thorough presentation of its findings.
This responseis organized in five sections. Project background and status are provided in
Section II, and the findings of the Panel are summarized in Section III. Section IV
presentsManagement's Action Plan in responseto the findings, and Section V concludes
the report. The Panel's findings, along with the Management's responses, are described
in detail in Annex 1. Annex 2 provides a summary of the status of the most recent Bank
loans to support the Project.

                               II. STATUSOFTHEPROJECTS

4       Project Backgrourtd. Yacyreta is a multi-billion    US dollar hydroelectric facility
constructed on the Parana River, along the border between Argentina and Paraguay (see
Map 1). The Project is the result of a joint venture established in a 1973 treaty between
Argentina   and Paraguay. To implement          the Project, a binational   entity, Entidad
Binacional Yacyreta (EBY), was created with equal representation of the two countries
on its Board of Directors.

5       The Project includes construction of an earth dam about 65 kilometers long with
ancillary hydraulic works, a powerhouse containing twenty turbines with the capacity to
generate3,100 m      of electricity, a navigation lock, and a fish passagefacility. The dam

2                                                                                     Argentina and Paraguay



was designed to operate at full capacity at a level of 83 meters above sea level (masl).
However, since 1994, the reservoir level has been at 76 masl, and the hydroelectric plant
consequently has been operating at only 60 percent of its capacity.

6         By December 31, 2003, total costs for the Project' had reached approximately
USD 13 billion. Of this amount, debt service alone represented approximately USD 7
billion. The majority of the Project's costs- about USD 9 billion-have                    been financed by
the Government of Argentina. The Bank has provided almost USD 900 million                                   in
financing since the late 1970s; the IDB has provided an equivalent amount. In addition,
 suppliers and export credit agencies have financed approximately USD 1 billion of the
Project's costs and EBY close to USD 1.1 billion with its own internal cash generation.
EBY estimated in July 2002 that the investment costs required to complete the Project
would be USD 714 million.             2  This total includes the estimated costs for expropriations,
civil works, and environmental and social programs required to raise the reservoir level to
 83 masl, as well as associatedcontingency and supervision costs.

7         The Bank has channeled support for the Project through five different loans (see
Figure 1, and Annex 2 for details). All of these loans have closed and all but two have
been repaid. The two loans with outstanding balances are: (i) Loan No. 3520-AR
(Argentina Second Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project), with a balance, as of February 29,
2004, of USD 160,593,198, due to be repaid by November 2009; and (ii) Loan No. 3842-
PA (the Paraguay Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications Sectors), with a
balance, as of February 29, 2004, of USD 14,548,887, due to be repaid by December
2011. All the relevant obligations concerning the implementation of the Project are
reflected in the Loan Agreement, Project Agreement and the Third Owners' Agreement
                                                               m
for Loan No. 3520-AR (the Legal Agreements),' and therefore, pursuant to the terms of
the Loan Agreement for Loan No. 3520-AR, the Bank will continue to supervise the
Project (as explained in more detail in paragraphs 60-64below).




1    Entidad Binacional Yacyreta. 2003. Financial Statements.
2    Entidad Binacional Yacyreta. 2002. "Plan Estrategico Yacyreta." In addition to these investment costs,
the Yacyreta Treaty calls for about USD 200 million in additional works to be carried out after the reservoir
is raised to its final level. These additional works include a railroad, port, and complementary coastal works
in Argentina, as well as a railroad and an international airport in Encarnacion, Paraguay, which are not
technically linked to raising the reservoir to its final level.
3    The term "Legal Agreements" as used in this narrative and Annex 1 means the Loan Agreement for the
Second Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project (Loan No. 3520~AR) entered into between the Argentine Republic
(the Borrower) and the Bank, the Project Agreement entered into between the Bank and Entidad Binacional
Yacyreta (EBY) and/or the Third Owners' Agreement entered into among the Argentine Republic, the
Republic of Paraguay and the Bank, all for Loan No. 3520-AR and all dated November 16, 1992, as
thereafter amended. The Legal Agreements are the only legal instruments in full force and effect that
contain remaining obligations relevant to Project implementation.

 Management Report and Recommendation

                     Figure 1. World   Bank Support for Yacyret6

Argentina




Paraguay

4                                                                                    Argentina and Paraguay



8        A great deal has transpired in the thirty-one years since the launching of the
Project, including much that is positive. First, despite lengthy delays, the hydroelectric
facility itself is well-constructed and has operated relatively efficiently, although only at
60 percent of capacity. From a technical perspective, the accomplishments of the
partnership between Argentina and Paraguay are impressive. Second, the power facility
has provided the foundation for increased commercial activity and improved living
conditions for thousands of people in the surrounding area. The Project has also
contributed positively by improving services and municipal infrastructure, as well as
housing, especially for low-income families.

9        To understand the present Inspection Panel Investigation and Management's
response, it is useful to review the key events in the Project's chronology, particularly in
the 1990s (see Table 1). In 1992, in order to move the dam toward operation, the Bank
and EBY agreed on a strategy to flood the reservoir incrementally over three phases,
beginning at 76 masl in 1994, increasing to 78 masl in 1995, and ending at its full
planned height of 83 masl in 1998. An important element of this strategy, spelled out by
the Bank in the legal documents for Loan No. 2854-AR and the Legal Agreements, is that
a series of resettlement and environmental measures to protect affected people and areas
would be carried out by EBY before PhaseI (raising the water level to 76 masl).

10       The reservoir was raised to 76 masl in 1994, but the phased reservoir filling did
not progress as planned and not all elements of the Resettlement and Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) were completed by EBY. The principal reason for the delay
was the 1995 financial crisis in Argentina, which in turn placed constraints on EBY's
resources. As a result, EBY was unable to complete important works and land purchases.
In addition administrative bottlenecks, primarily procurement-related, contributed to the
delay. Although operation at 76 masl was supposed to be a short-term transitional
situation, it has lasted a decade,up to the present.

11       Following     discussions begun in 1995, Management agreed with EBY and the
Argentine and Paraguayan authorities on two action plans (Plan A and Plan B)4 designed
to address the outstanding resettlement and environmental issues affecting the Project.
Plan A aimed at completing some actions that were not finished prior to the raising of the
reservoir to 76 masl. Plan B aimed at addressing problems that surfaced because of the
prolonged duration of the reservoir water level at 76 masl. Both these Plans were
incorporated into the Project's Legal Agreements, and the legal documents for Loan No.
2854 AR pursuant to the terms of the 1997 amendment. To date, the majority of activities
under both Plans have been completed. Despite this progress, however, work remains to
be done in several areas, such as the provision of property titles to all resettled


4   Plan A, "Pending Actions Program," means the program of actions, set forth in EBY Executive
Committee Resolution 3096/96, to be carried out by EBY with regard to works and other activities
required, in connection with the EMP, as aresult of the prior raising of the level of the reservoir of the
Yacyreta power plant to 76 masl (as measured at the cities of Encarnacion and Posadas). Plan B, the "Base
Program," means the program of actions, set forth in annexes to EBY Executive Committee Resolution
3164/97 and approved by EBY Administrative Council Resolution 744/97, to be carried out by EBY with
regard to works and other activities required because of prolonged operation of the reservoir of the
Yacyreta power plant at 76 masl (as measured at the cities of Encarnacion and Posadas).

Management Report and Recommendation                                                   5



beneficiaries, signature of a legal accord transferring responsibility for all works and
services to   the   appropriate governmental   entities,  implementation    of  a social
communication program, the implementation of community emancipation programs, and
the relocation of the Encamacion municipal slaughterhouse.

6                                                                    Argentina and Paraguay



12.    A summary of the current EMP for the Project is provided in Figure 2.




                  Figure  2. Components    of the  Resettlement   and
                      Environmental    Management     Plan   (EMP)




The Project's Environmental     Aspects

13     As part of the preparation of the Second Yacyreta Hydroelectric          Project, an
Environmental Assessment (EA) was carried out in 1992 in compliance with the Bank's
Environmental Assessment policy, OD 4.01, which had become effective in 1991. The
EA found that, at the Project's final design level of 83 masl, the majority of the 107,600
ha to be flooded (approximately 78,200 ha in Paraguay and 29,400 ha in Argentina) was
sparsely populated grasslands, wetlands and riverine and other forests. The EA found that

 Management Report and Recommendation                                                          7



 this flooding would have an impact on: (i) flora and fauna in the affected area, including
 blocking of fish migrations, and diminishing habitat for fish and other aquatic life; (ii)
 water quality conditions in and around urban areas (although overall reservoir water
 quality would not be seriously affected); (iii) human health, associated with worsening
 water quality conditions in urban lateral bays; and (iv) urban infrastructure and the need
 for resettlement of people living     in the flood plain. The resulting Environmental
 Management       Plan  (the PMMA),     approved by     the Bank       in  1992, provided      a
 comprehensive      framework   for  environmental     actions intended to       mitigate   and
 compensate for the adverse impacts associated with the dam and reservoir. The PMMA
 encompassed a broad number of programs targeting natural habitats and biodiversity
 through establishment of compensatory reserves, wildlife rescue (for terrestrial species as
 well   as fish    and other aquatic life);   water quality,    especially in    urban areas;
 environmentally     sound management of water levels and releases in the reservoir;
 functional relocation of urban infrastructure; management of downriver impacts; public
 health measures and vector monitoring; and cultural property, as well as measures to
 address indirect environmental impacts, such as from power transmission lines and
 potential irrigation development.

 14      With the decision in 1992 to raise the reservoir incrementally, the PMMA          also
 established sequenced environmental mitigation requirements necessary for raising the
reservoir to 76, 78 and 83 masl. For example, while the river's capacity to absorb and
 dissipate large volumes of urban sewage and industrial effluents is relatively high, the EA
identified that the urban lateral bays created by the flooding at 83 masl in Posadas and
Encarnacion removed an important environmental service performed by the urban creeks
 (namely, the rapid removal of untreated urban sewage and effluents away from populated
areas).Therefore, at 83 masl, if untreated urban sewage continued to flow into the urban
lateral bays created by flooding, it would pose a serious environmental and public health
risk. Thus, the PMMA       called for the construction of sewerage systems and sewage
treatment plants in both cities. The 1997 amendment to the Legal Agreements stipulated
that the seweragecollection and treatment systems (see Map 2) must be completed before
raising the reservoir to 78 masl.

 15.     Activities completed under the PMMA for dam operation at 76 masl included the
establishment of a network       of compensatory protected areas in both countries,
representing ecosystems similar to those originally affected, to mitigate the loss of natural
habitats due to reservoir inundation. Five protected areas totaling 59,175 ha-three          in
Argentina and two in Paraguay- were established and continue to be funded by EBY and
managed with the participation of NGOs and local environmental institutions. Since the
dam posed a barrier to fish migration, the Project constructed fish transfer stations to
provide for sufficient fish passageupriver to maintain diversity of the fish genetic pool.

16.      Other programs completed under the PMMA               include:  reorganization and
strengthening of EBY's environmental unit; endangeredspecies studies and management
programs (including a species of snail first identified as a result of Project investigations);
the development of operational guidelines for the reservoir that emphasize environmental
sustainability; definition and maintenance of a minimum ecological flow of 1,500 m3/s in
the Afia Cua Branch (see Map 1) to prevent fish mortality, harm to adjacent wetlands and

8                                                                      Argentina and Paraguay



riparian forests, and adverse public health impacts; archaeological investigation and
 salvage in all islands to be flooded; and selective biomass removal in areas to be flooded
near population centers, along navigation channels, and in areasof low circulation in the
reservoir. Construction also was initiated for works such as potable water and sewerage
 systems in Encarnacion and Posadas. Gas over-saturation, an unforeseen impact on fish
that came about after the start of operation, was addressedthough research and modeling
that led to retrofitting of deflectors on the main branch and Afia Cua spillways and
establishment of spillway        opening and closing procedures, thus minimizing         fish
mortality. Ongoing environmental monitoring programs address water quality, public
health and disease vectors, fish migration, groundwater levels of downstream wetlands,
and urban groundwater levels and quality. The PMMA's              programs addressed the
Project's significant environmental impacts and represented state-of-the-art techniques
for environmental management.

 17     Starting in 1999, the PMMA was updated through a three-year public process that
involved   civil   society, more than 100 NGOs, and national, provincial          and local
authorities. EBY's Executive Committee and Administrative        Council formed oversight
committees to supervise its implementation as well as to assist in its periodic updating.
The updated PMMA        is based on the lessons learned after seven years of operation and
gives special attention to the management of urban impacts. The Bank provided its no
objection to the updated PMMA in June 2001.

 18     As acknowledged in the Panel's report, the biophysical .environment affected by
the dam and reservoir is being managed competently.

The Project's Social Aspects

19      The Yacyreta dam and reservoir has required and still requires extensive
resettlement of both households and commercial/industrial      properties. Under the initial
Yacyreta Loan (1979-1991), resettlement was guided by the Plan de Action              Social
(PAS), or the Action Plan, which was designed on the basis of a censusof affected people
in 1980. This plan was prepared and adopted by EBY, ten years before the Bank's
resettlement policy OD 4.30 had become effective. At that time, EBY identified 3,078
affected families in Paraguay. However, due to implementation delays, by 1990, only 61
rural families had been resettled. In 1990, when EBY conducted a second census, it
recorded 4,888 families remaining to be resettled, 419 brick and roof-tile enterprises and
560 commercial businesseson the Paraguay side.

20      As part of the preparation for the Second Yacyreta Loan, EBY prepared a new
"Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan" (PARR) which formed part of the EMP.
This Plan was designed according to the Bank's Resettlement Policy (OD 4.30) and was
approved by the Bank and adopted by EBY in 1992. Registration in the 1990 censuswas
the PARR's main eligibility criterion. The PARR includes the provision of land, housing,
support for relocation and a program for social and economic rehabilitation. All people
affected by the reservoir and regardless of land tenure status, were entitled to a new
house, at no cost. PARR         implementation  was sequenced according to the agreed
timetable for filling the reservoir: up to 76 masl by 1994; up to 78 masl by 1995; and up

Management Report and Recommendation                                                        9



to 84 masl (which includes a one meter buffer zone above 83 masl for reservoir
fluctuations) by 1998.

Resettlement of Families

21      Although EBY completed the first stage on schedule by 1994, with 446 families
from lands below 76 masl and 218 families from lands above 76 masl resettled,
subsequent resettlement stages advanced slowly. In Paraguay, the resettlement of the
second stage, up to 78 masl, was completed by 2000. For the population living between
78 and 84 masl, EBY-in     agreement with the Bank-gave       priority to families located in
the wide network of urban creeks (see Map 3) that are prone to periodic flooding (even
though such flooding, is not associated with the reservoir, as confirmed by the Panel). In
order to resettle these families, EBY developed and is implementing the Urban Creeks
Program (PDA).

22      Given the delays in the Project (seeparagraph lo), EBY has not established a firm
cut-off date for determining eligible beneficiaries. Also, given the lack of funds, EBY has
not been able to purchase the land between 78 and 84 masl required to raise the reservoir
water level, which means it has no legal basis for preventing new settlement (see also
Annex 1, Item 36). As a result, the number of affected parties continues to grow. In 2000,
EBY carried out a new census, which recorded, in Paraguay, 6,147 families (5,813 urban
and 334 rural) remaining to be resettled. Since EBY still has not determined a final cut-
off date, the total number of affected families may increase even further.

23      The trends in the total number of affected families and the numbers actually
resettled are shown in Figure 3.

10                                                                                                  ArgentinaandParaguay




                                                            Figure       3.
                            Number            of Affected        Families           in Paraguay

            9,000

            8,000

            7,000 I     Affected   families:   resett led and

          8
       . I
      z 6,000
       I2
       `s 5,000
          d
       = 4,000
                                                                Resettled   families




            1,000


                 0
                         1980                   1990               1994                2000             2004
                                                                   Year



                   Source:     EBY. Census         1980,  1990,200O      and data to March 2004     for
                   families    resettled    from below     76 masl to 84 masl. For 2004,      the total
                   number      of families    (resettled  and pending     resettlement)  is taken  from
                   the 2000     census.     The actual    number   could   be higher.

24.        The 2,416 families resettled in Paraguay to date have been resettled in five urban
and seven rural resettlement sites (see Table 2 and Maps 1 through 4). All urban and rural
families received new houses, adequately equipped with basic services. Additionally,                                   the
resettlement sites are equipped with community                               infrastructure such as school, health
center, church, recreational centers. Rural populations also received food supply to allow
for variations within growing seasons, as well as technical assistance and support for
productive activities for several years. One rural resettlement site, Pindo, is a highly
successful resettlement of an indigenous Guarani community.

Management Report and Recommendation                                                       11




           Buena Vista                       1990 to date               320
           San Pedro                         1994 to date               399
           Arroyo Por& I and II              1999 to date               668
           Los Arrabales                     1997-1998                   25




           Atinguy                           1984-1995                   80
           Pindo                             1988                        21
           San Miguel Potrero                1993-1995                    59
           Caraguatti                        1994                        28
           Yacarey                           1994-1997                   25
           Ex-Cibils                         1995                         14
           San Nicolas                       1995                         13
           Carmen de Parana (1)              1995                          5




             (1) These are rural families that selected resettlement in urban areas of
                 Carmen  del Parana and San Cosme y Damian.
             Source: EBY, Resettlement   data, March 2004.

25.       The PARR has been independently monitored and evaluated regularly. According
to these evaluations, the majority of resettled urban and rural families have either restored
or improved their living standards (consistent with OD 4.30, paragraph 3), including
adequate housing and greater access to infrastructure and public services. The vast
majority of urban and rural families inhabited high flood risk areasprior to resettlement,
and are now relocated above natural flood levels. Many also possesstitle to their land and
houses for the first time. However, there have been some claims related to restoration of
income from those resettled in Arroyo Pora and Ita Paso, largely due to their distance
from Encarnacion's urban center (approximately 6 and 9 kilometers, respectively).

Brick Makers and Roof-tile Makers

26       Most of the affected enterprises are makers of brick and roof-tiles. The brick
makers are mostly small enterprises, while the roof-tile makers are medium and large
sized businesses.Although only a small proportion of these enterprises was affected by
the filling of the reservoir up to 76 masl, EBY decided to compensate all those that would
be affected if     the reservoir were raised to 83 masl. Some enterprises required
compensation only for the loss of accessto clay deposits, while others required relocation
or compensation for their property and assets. Table 3 shows the brick and roof-tile
making enterprisesthat were compensated or resettled by EBY.

12                                                                                      Argentina and Paraguay



                            Table 3. Relocation     and Compensation              of



           Brick Makers

           Relocation


           Compensation   for brick makers choosing      to                        268
           change   economic  activity

           Compensation    for loss of clay deposits   (paid to
           brick makers located above 84 masl but using
           deposits below 84 masl)




           Cash compensation     for self relocation                                53

           Compensation    for loss of clay deposits (paid to                       49
           tile makers located above 84 masl but using
           deposits below 84 masl)

           Compensation    for roof-tile enterprise choosing
           to change  economic   activity



                                              l_l_____________l.-.._.....
                 Source: EBY. Resolutions      authorizing  compensation          payments
                 that were approved     by EBY between-May               1994 and April 2000.

27      It is important to point out that those receiving compensation for loss of clay
deposits up to 84 masl have not, in fact, actually lost access to this resource since the
water level has remained at only 76 masl. In addition, `clay deposits on EBY-owned
property are available to all brick and roof-tile makers free of charge. (See Map 4.)
Similarly, of the 53 medium and large sized roof-tile makers who received compensation
for self-relocation, 19 of them continue production in the original location.

Commercial Businesses

28      As noted above, 560 commercial businesses were identified in the 1990 census in
Encarnacion as needing resettlement. To date, none have been resettled, since none were
located between 76 and 78 masl. In accordance with the 2000 census, the number of
commercial businesses between 78 and 84 masl increased to 807, and is likely to have
grown since then. For those businessesthat choose to relocate, EBY has acquired land in
Encamacion..

 "Extra   Censales"

29.     The Government of Paraguay was responsible for the resettlement of all
additional families who were located in the affected area after the 1990 census ("extra
censales"). The extra censales up to 78 masl were resettled in Ita Paso, a site selected and
approved by the affected families. In 1995, these families received a compensation

Management Report and Recommendation                                                     13



package inferior to that of the census beneficiaries (the Government of Paraguay
provided a plot with basic services, and the families built their own homes). This
difference caused dissatisfaction. In 1998, the Bank requested the Government of
Paraguay to build new houses for the extra censales.with the same specifications as
houses built for families formally included in the 1990 census. By 1999, a financial
arrangement between the Government of Paraguay and EBY made this possible. As a
result, EBY has been providing the same resettlement assistance to all extra censales,
thus erasing any differential treatment between different groups of affected parties. For
all practical purposes, all families included in any of the EBY censuses (1980, 1990,
2000) are expected to benefit from the same resettlement policies.

Resettlement Claims

30       The main problem with EBY's implementation of the PARR is related to larger
Project delays. Some families included in the 1980 census waited to be resettled for
years. EBY will not have a viable program for completing the resettlement up to the final
design level of the reservoir, until adequate financing is confirmed and the PARR has
been updated aspart of the Revised EMP.

31       Other problems with the PARR are common to many resettlement plans. Some
people have claimed that they were excluded from the 1990 census. Some complaints are
related to the appraisal value of assets or to minor problems in the houses that are
provided. Claims for cash compensation surged in 1998, exacerbated by EBY's payment
of cash for non-dam related impacts (e.g., the alleged loss of fisheries resources
associatedwith the reservoir), and the active promotion of such claims by stakeholders.

32       In order to minimize the social pressure stemming from claims related to income
loss, the Paraguayan Congress created a USD 6 million "Productive Fund' in 2001. This
fund, managed by the Secretariat of Social Action and EBY, was created to assist
affected parties with small grants in support of new productive activities. The Fund also
provides technical assistance to beneficiaries to better identify their needs and design
feasible activities. A consolidated list of beneficiaries of this Fund is expected to be
finalized by EBY by the end of April of 2004. On the expectation that disbursements
from this Fund will begin later this year, the Fund is reducing social tensions surrounding
the Project.

33       Improved communications between EBY and the affected parties will help dispel
confusion on several issues (see paragraphs 66-68), not least of which are the timetable
for Project completion, the types of claims being honored, and the procedures to follow
for all types of claims. Other aspectsof improved communications and related grievance
mechanisms are detailed in Section IV.

14                                                                   Argentina and Paraguay



                              III. FINDINGSOFTHE~ANEL

34      Introduction.  This section is divided into three parts: (i) a summary of Panel
findings regarding the original claims; (ii) a summary of findings regarding Bank
Operational Directives, as well as other important findings of the Panel; and (iii) a brief
commentary on the Panel findings. Detailed Management commentary on the findings is
contained in Annex 1.

Claims and Panel Findings

35      Four sets of claims are discussed below. The Panel's findings dismissed the first
two of these. These findings are important not only because they pertain to Bank
management of the Project, but becausethey dispel widespread confusion concerning the
Project's environmental impacts.

36      The first set of claims states that more than 4,000 families living in the areas
directly affected by the Yacyreta Project at the reservoir's current operating level (76
masl) have had severe impacts, including: (i) constant flooding of urban creeks and a
higher water table, (ii) contamination of the Parana River and the creeks, and (iii)
spreading of diseases.The Panel rejects each of these claims. The Panel further concludes
that the "biophysical environment afected by the Yacyreta dam and reservoir is being
managed competently and that the initial environmental problems that arose when the
reservoir wasfirstjZled  have been satisfactorily resolved. "

37      The Panel did not substantiate the Requesters' claim that the reservoir causes
constant flooding   of urban creeks: "Although it is clear that the urban creeks of
Encarnacion    are flooding   and causing severe hardship, the Panel finds        that the
Requesters' contention that this flooding is a consequenceof the Yacyreta reservoir itself
cannot be sustained.. . The urban creek flood       conditions are mainly due to local
conditions, such as upstream urbanization, lack of urban storm water drainage, and
waste accumulation impeding waterjlow in the creeks, in that order."

38      The Panel also finds that the reservoir does not cause contamination of the Parana
River and the creeks. According to the Panel: "[. ..]Bank Management has ensured that
proper monitoring of water quality has been conducted in the reservoir. Water quality
monitoring has been an ongoing activity since before thefilling of the Yacyreta reservoir.
The Panel verified     the existence of    the water quality   monitoring    data and the
reasonableness of Management's claim that `the reservoir's water quality is constantly
monitored, [and] falls within satisfactory parameters. '"

39      With respect to the claim that the reservoir has caused the spread of diseasesand
severe health problems, the Panel notes that "the Yacyreta reservoir is not the cause of
the polluted water used by the complainants for      washing clothes and that there are
potentially many diflerent reasons why such skin irritations might occur[...] The Ministry
of Health and Social Welfare of Paraguay has a long-term ongoing study that shows no
increase in abundance or species composition of disease vectors. The Panel verified the
existenceand findings of this study andfound no evidence to the contrary. "

Management Report and Recommendation                                                     15



40       The second set of claims alleges that a proposed wastewater treatment plant, to be
built in Encarnacion, would further pollute the environment because its location and
design are based on a defective environmental assessment and are in violation            of
Paraguayan environmental regulations. According to the Panel: "While the Requesters
are opposed to the location selected for the planned wastewater treatment plant, the
Panel finds that the site selected is not inappropriate for the purpose and that the
environmental assessmentfor the wastewater treatment plant is not defective either
procedurally or substantively."

41.      The third set of claims alleges that the families affected by the raising of the
reservoir level were not all identified. According to the Panel there is "persuasive
evidence that a number of people who were present at the time of the 1990 census were
erroneously omitted and that they fear          they will  be ineligible for  the Project
compensation and resettlement benefits."

42       The fourth set of claims alleges that the resettlement and income restoration
programs are not being properly implemented, leaving hundreds of affected families and
businesseswith no or inadequate compensation, poor resettlement housing and facilities,
and prolonged economic hardship. The Request gives particular attention to the situation
of the employees of the brick making and tile making factories who allegedly were not
compensated for their loss of income becauseonly factory owners, and not their workers,
were compensated for their losses.

43       The Panel finds that the impacts of specific resettlement sites were not fully
assessed,and that alternative sites for resettlement areaswere not considered. It finds that
there was inadequate consideration of urban and per-i-urban environments, induced
effects and impacts of resettlement sites on the urban system, including water supply,
sewers and drainage. The Panel also finds that there was no evaluation of water and
seweragefacilities and urban drainage for resettlement sites.

44.      Concerning the resettlement plan, the Panel finds that it has not been properly
implemented by EBY and other authorities. Reasons for this include: (i) inadequate
grievance procedures to correct census or other resettlement related omissions and errors;
(ii) inadequate assessment and mitigation        of effects on host populations due to
resettlement and burdens on local infrastructure; (iii) inadequate effort to inform and
consult with host populations in planning and carrying out construction of resettlement
sites; (iv) inadequate consultation and information about provisional appraisals and need
to monitor actual appraisal values when properties are expropriated; (v) failure to
consider acceptable resettlement alternatives; and (vi) inadequate analysis of the legal
framework so asto prevent an influx of population.

Panel Findings with Regard to Bank Operational Directives

45.      The Panel found the Bank in compliance with its policies and procedures with
regard to the following issues:

16                                                                                                             Argentina and Paraguay



                                     0      Environmental      screening     process;
                                       0    Preparation     of EA - 2nd Yacyreta;
                                       0    Analysis   of alternatives     - 2nd Yacyreta;
                                       0    Consideration      of current   biophysical    environment;
                                       0    Wastewater      treatment     plant desian   and EA

                                       0    Use of provisional      appraisals    for valuation    procedure      (partial);
                                    0       Compensation       for usufruct    or customary     rights to land;
                                    0       Compensation       for loss of access      to natural   resources      (partial);
                                    0       Provision   of new Paraguayan          law regarding     expropriation;
                                    0       Adequacy      of resettlement     plan but plan, budget       and timetable       have   not


                                               pervision    of main civil works components.


46      The Panel found that the Bank was not in compliance with its policies and
proceduresregarding the following issues:




                  `$+  '  ,+;q p
                                         Inadequate      consideration     of urban    and peri-urban      environments
                 f"&Z<5,:
                 30
                 :+&@ ;  ,$$
                                   0
                 $~%$&<+`, .
                 p&g&                    Inadequate      assessment       and mitigation    of effects    on host populations

                                   0     Reliance    on principal     occupation     as a basis for income        restoration
                                  l      Inadequate      grievance     procedures     to correct   resettlement      related    omissions
                                         and errors

                                  0      Inadequate     effort to inform     and consult    with host populations
                                  0      Inadequate     consultation      and monitoring     of property    appraisals
                                  0      Denial   of compensation        to some    affected   people    (partial)

                                  0      Inadequate     grievance      procedures     when   reservoir    level raised      to 76 masl
                                  0      Need    for better   rationale   for resettlement    sequencing
                                  0      Failure   to consider     acceptable    resettlement     alternatives

                                  0      Restoration     of income     earning   capacity   inadequate
                                  0      Exclusion,    in practice,    of informal   workers    in brick and tile industries       from
                                         compensation       program
                                  0      Restoration     of income     earning   capacity   to brick makers       not fully met (partial)
                                  0      Resettlement      plan, budget      and timetable    not functioning       as intended
                                  0      Analysis    of legal  issues    did not occur    or was inadequate;        therefore     legal
                                         framework     could   not prevent     influx of ineligible   population
                                 0       Losses    directly  attributable    to delays   in resettlement     should     be recognized

                                  0      Inadequate     supervision     of resettlement     activities  with respect        to standards of
                                         design,   construction     and implementation
                                0        Lack of adequate       technical    and social   expertise    during     supervision


47.     In addition to issues related to the claims discussed above, and the finding of
compliance or non-compliance, the Panel made other key findings as well. These are
briefly summarized below and Management's corresponding comments are provided in
Annex 1.

48.     Water Levels. The Panel found that the construction of the Yacyreta dam has a
negligible effect on water levels of the Parana River at Encarnacion, especially in times
of flood. However, it found that the dam is frequently operated in such a fashion that it
produces water levels of up to one meter in excess of 76 masl at Encarnacion, which was

Management Report and Recommendation                                                       17



not consistent with the provisions of the legal document for Loan No. 2854-AR (as
amended) and Legal Agreements.

49      Environment.    The Panel made additional findings related to: (i) concerns for
future environmental management of the Project; (ii) inappropriate road and drainage
design; (iii) inadequate dissemination of information about the coverage of the sewer
system beyond the southern part of Encamacion;            (iv) need to finance household
connections to the sewer system; and (v) need for adequatestaff, budget and training for
the operation of the sewagesystem.

50      SociaZ Zmpacts and ResettZement.The Panel made additional findings related to:
(i)`the need to ensure that census and survey data will be updated and verified prior to
further raising of the water level; and (ii) the need to systematically inform and consult
with people about the Urban Creeks Program.

51      Supervision.  The Panel found: (i) evidence of poor quality of design and
construction within resettlement sites that would have been identified if supervision had
been stronger; (ii) need for a greater level of supervision of technical design and
construction in all facets of the resettlement scheme; (iii) failure to anticipate foreseeable
delays in construction and operation of the wastewater treatment plant and lack of interim
arrangements for waste discharges; (iv) need for better documentation of consultations
with affected persons; (v) need for a higher than usual level of supervision to ensure that
corruption does not occur; (vi) absenceof an effective communication strategy between
those implementing the Project and the affected population; (vii) recommendations made
in 2003 that adequately reflect Bank policies but that should have come sooner; and (viii)
overly optimistic reporting to the Board and understatement of difficulties         in Project
implementation.

52.     Economic    Context. The Panel acknowledged, in several instances, that the
economic crisis in Argentina and related economic and social crises in Paraguay have
precluded effective implementation of mitigative measures foreseen in the PMMA            and
the PARR. The Panel also recognized that rectification of past problems will be difficult.

Overview of Management Commentary           on These Findings

53.     Concerning the environmental management aspects of the Project, perhaps the
most important general issue raised is the appropriate level of due diligence on
resettlement sites and other small urban investments. On this Project, in EBY's
judgment-with     which the Bank concurred-most        non-dam civil works did not pose
significant issues and therefore, were not analyzed. Civil works that were not subject to
environmental assessment included urban infrastructure (small bridges, urban streets,
buildings), small networks for water supply and sewage, and resettlement housing
programs. Civil   works that were subject to EAs included a 1.5~kilometer bridge, a
slaughterhouse near Ita Paso, a marketplace near Buena Vista, the wastewater treatment
plant, and other transportation infrastructure changes associated with higher reservoir
levels.

18                                                                       Argentina and Paraguay



54      In Management's detailed commentary to the Panel's findings in Annex 1, care is
taken to acknowledge the finding that adequatescreening and analysis of alternatives was
not always done prior to 1995, and that more could have been done both in the screening
and consultation process itself. More could also have been done in the documentation of
decisions taken. Nevertheless, the standard of due diligence on this Project improved
throughout the     99Os, including in the areas mentioned above, and improvements are
continuing with the current updating of the Project EMP. One specific example of
improvements are the construction manuals (including good environmental practices),
quality assuranceprograms, enhanced supervision, and contractor insurance requirements
that, taken together, have improved the quality of the non-dam related civil works since
the mid-1990s.

55      Social Issues. Management's overall commentary on the social aspects of the
Project is that the resettlement process was made extremely difficult by unexpectedly
long Project delays. Also, since many of these delays were linked to the Argentine
economic crisis, there were direct spill-over effects in terms of EBY's ability to generate
revenues needed to acquire land, resettle people, close businesses, and accomplish the
other interim requirements. The delays resulted in severe impacts on all parties involved,
from the affected parties having to wait years to be relocated, to the Governments of
Argentina and Paraguay who have yet to receive the planned benefits of their investment.
As for World Bank lessons learned, Management acknowledges that tighter adherence to
Borrower deadlines might have helped-even         as it also assertsthat it was correct in its
continued decision not to invoke its right to either suspend disbursements or demand
accelerated repayment of the loan due to safeguard noncompliance. In the case of
Paraguay, safeguard non-compliance was a central concern-along              with poor country
macroeconomic and portfolio       management- that led to multiple         visits by the Vice
President of the Bank's Latin America and Caribbean Region in 1998, 1999, and 2001 in
order to apply pressure on the Government. Given the lack of progress in these three
areas,there was a sharp contraction in the Bank's assistanceto Paraguay until this fiscal
year.

56      As stated above for environmental management, Management finds that EBY's
performance on resettlement-related issues has improved. Its relationship with the great
majority of affected parties is improving, as is the resolution of claims received over the
past few years. Communications with affected parties, an important element of EBY's
work, should benefit from implementation         of the social communication       program to
comply with Plan B (see Footnote 4) and its updating. The collection of baseline data
essential to future resettlement in the event of reservoir level rise is also improving, as are
procedures for public access and correction of such baseline data. Finally, restoration of
income-earning capacity is expected to be addressed through both the rehabilitation
programs of the PARR and the Productive Fund being managed in partnership between
EBY and the Government of Paraguay.

57      None of these statements are meant to imply that serious challenges with regard to
the ongoing resettlement process do not remain; they do. Nevertheless, given the lessons
that have been learned by EBY, communities, and other government authorities, the
processesto be'followed in the future will be more transparent than in the past.

Management Report and Recommendation                                                       19



58.    Project Supervision. Management agreesthat supervision of this Project requires
a high degree of expertise and flexibility, and will continue to supervise the Project in this
fashion. In addition, the Bank will continue to employ information-gathering approaches
that provide independent verification of the practices and policies pursued by EBY.
Management remains committed to continuing this level of supervision for the life of the
Second Yacyreta Loan. Details concerning suggested changes in staff expertise, staff
location, and reporting practices (both in Aide Memoires and to the Board and Panel), are
provided in Annex 1 and summarized in Section IV.

           IV. MANAGEMENT'S      ACTION    PLAN IN RESPONSE TO THE FINDINGS

59.    Matrix ofActions. Management's Action Plan is summarized in Table 4 below.

                               Table 4. Summary     of Actions

20    Argentina and Paraguay

Management Report and Recommendation        .




  The Bank will urge the Paraguayan authorities to explore all available legai and administrative means,
  such as licensing, permitting ur fiscal policies, to discourage new development or influx into the land
  between 78 and 84 masl until such timeI asI EEIYhas adequate" financial resources to acquire this land.
    I ,,,% , , I %,,~   ,            ,\.,,,       %>\,,~,*  I I I    *<r

22                                                                     Argentina and Paraguay



Legal Context

60      Continuing   Bank Supewision. The Bank's principal means of influencing the
course of the Project stems from the Legal Agreements (see Footnote 3 above), which
require the Argentine Republic, EBY and the Republic of Paraguay to allow the Bank to
continue supervision as long as Loan 3520-AR has not been fully repaid. Of the four
loans to Argentina for the Project, all are closed. All have been repaid except for the
Second Yacyreta Project (Loan No. 3520-AR). The loan to Paraguay for the Asuncion
Sewerage Project (the name of which was changed to Reform Project for the Water and
Telecommunications Sectors, Loan No. 3842-PA), is closed but not yet repaid. This loan
(see Annex 2) included only a small component, completed in 1998, of civil works in
Encarnacion for the benefit of the people to be resettled. The Loan Agreement in support
of Loan No. 3842-PA does not contain any remaining obligation with respect to the
execution of the Project.

61.     Given the complexity      of the Project and the fact that environmental           and
resettlement actions need to be undertaken as prescribed in the Legal Agreements,
Management will continue to supervise the Project until Loan 3520-AR is fully repaid.
This approach is consistent with BP 13.05 (Project Supervision; paragraph 21), which
states that: "Bank supervision of a project normally       ends with the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). However, in special cases the country director and sector
manager may decide to continue supervision beyond project completion for defined
periods." BP 13.05 (Footnote 28) provides examples of special cases, such as concerns
about implementation of resettlement action plans.

62      During this extended period of supervision, should there be lack of compliance
with any obligation under the Legal Agreements, and this continues for a period of sixty
days after the Bank has so notified the Borrower, the Bank may then notify the Borrower
that it will accelerate the repayment of the outstanding principal of the loan amount
together with the interest and other charges. Acceleration of the maturity of the loan is the
only remedy applicable to the Project under the Loan Agreement (Loan No. 3520-AR),
given the fact that Loan proceeds have been fully disbursed. It should be noted that the
Borrower can on its own initiative also "accelerate maturity" by repaying the loan ahead
of schedule, thus terminating the Legal Agreements and all obligations thereunder
(including the obligation to allow continued Bank supervision) before the currently
stipulated 2009 final amortization date.

63.     Legal Context for the Proposed Action       Plan. Management's Action Plan, as
reflected in Section IV and in Annex 1, contains a number of actions, some of which can
be legally enforced and some of which cannot. Contingent obligations are those that must
be undertaken by the Borrower, EBY and the Republic of Paraguay prior to raising the
level of the reservoir. For any raising short of 78 masl, obligations include: (i) all actions
in the Pending Actions Program and Base Program (Plan A and Plan B); and (ii) all other
actions in the EMP and all other actions set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement
Loan No. 3520-AR). In order to raise the level beyond 78 masl, the agreement of the
Bank and the Republics of Paraguay and Argentina must be obtained and the following
further conditions must be met: (i) a Revised EMP has been presented to the Bank

 Management Report and Recommendation                                                     23



 (including a financing plan for its execution); and (ii) the Revised EMP is executed in a
 manner satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the pertinent provisions of the Legal
 Agreements. The obligations continue to be binding on the Borrower, EBY and the
 Republic of Paraguay until, as mentioned above, the Loan Agreement (Loan No. 3520-
 AR) is terminated by means of full loan repayment.

 64      Other recommended actions are not legally enforceable (in the absenceof a future
 amendment to the Legal Agreements voluntarily            agreed to by the Bank's Project
 counterparts), becausethey are not specifically linked to a particular obligation under the
 Legal    Agreements.     Among     these   are   the  dispute   procedures,   and   various
 recommendations that are part of enhanced monitoring and supervision, e.g., a quality
 assurance protocol to evaluate civil works in resettlement sites and updating of the
 screening process for non-dam related civil works. In these cases,the Bank will continue
 to use its best efforts through the supervision process to encourage the Borrower, EBY
 and the Republic of Paraguay to undertake the recommended actions in a manner
 acceptableto the Bank.

 Key Issues in the Proposed Action Plan

 65      The proposed Action Plan entails a wide variety of suggestedactions, but they can
 be' loosely    clustered into  three themes: (i)    working   with    EBY   on the social
 communication     program that would serve many objectives in improving          the social
 management of the Project; (ii) working with EBY on an improved grievance procedure,
 to ensure fairness and reduce the social tensions surrounding the Project, particularly on
 the Paraguay side; and (iii) an enhanced supervision strategy for the Bank itself, to better
 support and monitor the completion of all key Project deliverables. These three topics are
 discussed below.

 66      Social Communication     Program. Despite improvements in EBY's provision of
 information    on the    Yacyreta    Hydroelectric  Project,  significant  communications
 challenges remain, such as the need for EBY to: (i) clarify the compensation schemes
 available to the affected community and key issues for both households and commercial
 properties; (ii) dispel the expectation that opportunistic behaviors will be rewarded; (iii)
 reduce the uncertainty among people awaiting resettlement; (iv) establish a system of
 two-way communications, in which people can both obtain information in an adequate
 format and express their concerns; and (v) provide information about the Project beyond
 resettlement-related topics, such as the plans for constructing the sewerage and
 wastewater treatment facilities, and for raising water levels in the future. The Bank has
 stressed the need for EBY         to develop and implement       a comprehensive     social
 communication program to comply with Plan B, which takes into account the national
 and local context. In the development of the plan, the objectives, primary and secondary
 audiences, behaviors and attitudes that need to be changed, and channels and messages
used to convey information to each of the target audiences should be defined. In addition,
the program needsto involve the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay.

,67.    Dispute Procedures. In addition to improving communication, it is essential to
provide fair, efficient and transparent procedures for addressing disputes. As the Panel

24                                                                    Argkntina and Paraguay



noted, it is not reasonable to expect those who allege grievances to have no option but to
wait for the completion of judicial proceedings before resolving disputes. This view is
reflected in OD 4.30, which identifies the need for procedures to assist affected people.
The OD also notes that it is important, "as far as possible, to take into account existing
proceduresfor settling disputes in the country or areasconcerned."

68       Since 1998, the Bank has drawn attention to the need for an effective dispute
resolution mechanism. In response,EBY contracted Green Cross in 2000 to serve as such
a mechanism. Certain design issues served as an impediment to this effort, and relatively
little was accomplished. Building on that experience, however, alternatives have been
discussed at length with both EBY and the IDB, and all parties have worked to improve
the situation, including meetings in March 2004. The result of this effort is an agreement
to, among other things, better and more efficiently categorize and process claims. As the
Panel indicated, the process of addressing claims has often been ad hoc and poorly
organized. During the March 2004 mission, a consultant's report identified some twenty-
six different categories of claims that EBY has addressed.This report proposed that EBY
reduce the number of these categories to make them clearer and more manageable,
through the use of a uniform data base and a set of procedures and rules applicable to
each of them. EBY appears willing         to move ahead along this line. The report also
proposed that EBY agree to minimize the number of claims rejected on the grounds that
they have no evident link to the project. When EBY decides to reject such claims, it
should have a procedure in place to state its position clearly and promptly, so that the
claimant can challenge the decision before a judicial tribunal, if desired, without undue
delay. In this manner, the process of resolving claims should become both more standard
and transparent.

69      Looking ahead, the Bank has also discussed with EBY how to address future
claims so that they do not languish. If after the steps outlined in the previous paragraph
are taken, claims against EBY are still slow to be resolved, then the Bank will urge EBY
and the Paraguayan authorities to adopt an independent review mechanism to facilitate
the process.

70.     Enhanced Supervision and Monitoring.      Management will strengthen supervision
in several ways, including      level, country presence, expertise and duration, in the
following ways:

            Ensure continued formal, full supervision missions twice per year;


        l   Augment local supervision with the addition of, by May            2004, a civil
            society/social specialist to the Asuncion office, who will be specially tasked
            with on-call supervision;


        l   Assign an architect/urban planner with experience in environmental and social
            assessment to the task team to strengthen supervision of issues related to
            infrastructure and housing in resettlement sites;

Management Report and Recommendation                                                     2.5



        l   Expand documentation in Aide Memoires to include the specific subjects
             discussed in meetings with affected people, summary findings and follow-up
             actions;


        l    Build upon the October 2003 and the March 2004 supervision missions to
             agreewith EBY on a monitorable plan for the Project;


        l   Maintain Bank budget for Project supervision at levels significantly     higher
            than the normal budget coefficient for projects in the region; and


        l    Supervise the Project through the life of the loan for the Argentina Second
             Yacyreta IIydroelectric Project (Loan No. 3520-AR).

71.     Many components of the recommended Management Action Plan (Table 3) entail
enhanced supervision and more intensive monitoring of specific issues, in particular
related to resettlement. For resettlement sites and related infrastructure, these include a
quality assuranceprotocol to evaluate the conditions of existing civil works, a review of
contractor procedures and practices, confirmation of the adequacy of improvements made
especially asthey affect host populations, and ex-post evaluations of the Arroyo Pora and
Ita Paso resettlement sites. To improve the implementation of the current PARR, the task
team will facilitate a workshop to train EBY staff and discuss measures to improve
rehabilitation programs, in the third or fourth quarter of 2004. An important activity to
guide future resettlement is the updating of the PARR. This encompassesseveral actions,
such as the census of affected people, attention to accuracy of topographical data, better
integration of resettled and host populations, consideration of different resettlement
strategies and options, and improved socioeconomic data to determine appropriate ways
of restoring income earning capacity.

72      Additional components of the Management Action Plan concern environmental
management. Management will continue to monitor compliance with the PMMA with a
view toward improving EBY's capacity to maintain adequateenvironmental management
practices over the long term and to substantiate compliance with the Legal Agreements.
Management will urge that there be independent verification of the reservoir level (76
masl as measured at Encamacion and Posadas) and will confirm that the reservoir is
operated at 76 masl in accordance with the Legal Agreements. Yearly validation of the
height-flowrate curves will also be requested. Several actions concern the wastewater
treatment plant and sewer system. EBY will be requested to make drawings of the
seweragesystem and non-related dam civil works available to the community and clarify
the areaof coverage of the sewer system (see Map 2). Management will confirm that the
seweragesystem, including house connections, has been completed prior to the raising of
the reservoir level, in accordance with the Legal Agreements. The Bank will work with
IDB, who has informed the Bank that it will take the lead in financing and supervising
the seweragesystem.

26                                                                     Argentina and Paraguay



Prospects for Raising the Reservoir Level

73      Since November 2003, the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay have been
drafting a plan to complete the Project that will comply fully with the provisions set forth
in the Legal Agreements. As a first step in developing this Project completion plan, the
Governments are: (i) defining the program's priority (critical path) activities, such as
those related to the implementation of the Project's PMMA and PARR; (ii) developing a
financing plan for the program; and (iii) ensuring that this program is coordinated with
local urban development plans and that local actors and organizations help oversee
resettlement and rehabilitation activities under the program.

74.     The Government of Argentina's interest in completing the Project stems from the
need to ensure a low-cost supply of electricity. The Government of Paraguay is also
interested in Project completion since the compensation it receives has an important
impact on its public finances. In addition, Project completion is a priority for both
Governments since it will ensure that the population residing in the flood plain will be
resettled to areasnot prone to flooding.

75      In April 2004, the two Governments expect to discuss the draft plan to complete
the Project. The IDB is organizing the next High Level Meeting for Yacyreta during the
third quarter of 2004. Based on the outcome of these meetings, it is expected that by
August 2004 the Presidents of Argentina and Paraguay will sign a letter of intent to adopt
the plan. This letter will be used as a basis to formalize an agreement between the two
governments to amend the Bi-National         Treaty. Under the best case scenario, both
national congresseswill approve the amendment during the first semesterof 2005.

76      The Governments' drafting of this plan represents a positive commitment that
provides greater clarity to Project completion. However, in order to both approve and
implement the plan, the Governments will have to overcome significant obstacles. These
include: (i) the risk that the Congresses of Paraguay and Argentina delay or do not
approve an amendment to the Bi-National Treaty; (ii) the risk that the Governments do
not reach a consensus on a plan and its implementation; (iii) the need to secure Project
financing;   (iv)  adequate strengthening of the institutional       capacity within     local
governmental agencies to implement the proposed programs; and, above all, (v) the need
to build local stakeholders' confidence in EBY. Therefore, before any decision is made to
complete the Project and raise the reservoir level, a broad consultation process must be
initiated with the municipalities in the areasof influence, the provincial governments, and
civil  society on both sides of the river to help ensure that a consensus is reached
regarding the Project completion plan.

77.     Based on Management's experience, the best case scenario for raising the level of
the reservoir, to achieve the full design height of 83 masl, is three or more years. The
actions that must be completed prior to raising the level of the reservoir beyond 76 masl
involve both countries and include:

Management Report and Recommendation                                                      27



        l   Installation of infrastructure and construction of housing for urban populations
            in Argentina and Paraguay who must be resettled from above 78 masl to l-2
            meters beyond the target higher water level (i.e., up to 84 masl);


        l   Provision of property titles to all resettled beneficiaries;


        l   Indemnification of properties affected by coastal treatment works in Posadas
            and Encarnacion;


        l   Implementation     of community programs to assist during the pre-transfer,
            transition and arrival phasesof relocation to both urban and rural resettlement
            sites;


        l   Replacement of affected roads, highways, bridges, railroad lines and other
            civil works affected in Argentina and Paraguay;


        l   Sewage collection and treatment systems completed in Encarnacion, including
            construction of: (i) primary     sewage collectors and interceptors; and (ii)
            sewagetreatment plants or other adequatefacilities;


        l   Signature of legal accords transmitting responsibility for new settlements and
            all works, structures and services provided by the EBY to the cognizant
            governmental entities; and
                                ,

        l   Support to the administration of additional compensatory protected areasto
            achieve a Yacyreta protected areassystem totaling no less than 64,000
            hectares.

Many significant steps remain, therefore, before the Bank can give a no objection to
further raising of the water level.


                                       V. CONCLUSION

78.    Management        acknowledges      the   Panel's    recommendations,   finds   them
constructive, and believes that the proposed Action Plan responds to the issues raised in
the Panel's Report. Management is committed to applying its policies and procedures in
full and will make every effort to pursue its mission statement in the context of the
Project.


                        Annex      1
FINDINGS,
   IIIIII I ,I , ,,s,I%,1,, II II
                  COMMENTS          AND ACTIONS
                              Comments ~ "and 'Actions ~#                                ' ' I '




                              Acfkm   No action required.




                              the Panekcomment      and sent to the Panel in November 2003 in
                              response to their Request for evidence of EAs, were prepared in




                              fn 1995, EBY improved its screening procedures for non-dam




                              and contractor insurance practices and will request improvements,

  30                  Argentina and Paraguay



Panel Findings and
Observations

          Management Report and Recommendation                                 31



,vI     Panel  Findings and          IF        F    [ Comments  and Actions
      1 Observations                    VP"/
                                        RD     I  I                                  ,I

  32                                           Argentina and Paraguay



Panel  Findings and    Comments  and Actions
Observations

  Management Report and Recommendation           33




Observations
                                          ,,,

34    Argentina and Paraguay

Management Report and Recommendation    35

            36                    Argentina and Paraguay

-rlNo.,   Panel  Findings and
          Observations
,. , . I,                        , ,, , ",, .II , , ^      \,

Management Report and Recommendation    37

         38                         Argentina and Paraguay



I , , > ~    ~ , " ,    I



Panel               Findings and

Management Report and Recommendation    39

40    Argentina and Paraguay

Management Report and Recommendation    41

42    Argentina and Paraguay

Management Report and Recommendation    43

            44                                                          Argentina and Paraguay



          Panel  Findings and     Para  % Comments    and Actions
          Observations           /    ,,




                                         housing and neighborhood infrastructure. However, Management
                                         acknuwledges that some people were dissatisfied with the
                                         alternatives presented during consultations and others may be
                                         confused about the objectives and criteria of the Urban Creeks


                                         Action:  Managemen't will confirm that EBY implements a social
                                         communication program, to comply with Plan l3, and will urge EBY
                                         to address communication issues under the Urban Creeks
                                                                                         ,~  ,  ,

Supervision
,..l j   .  k,II

Management Report and Recommendation    45

46    Argentina and Paraguay

Management Report and Recommendation    47

                                           Annex 2
                  Status of Recent Bank Loans Supporting the Project:
                  Argentina - Second Yacyret6 Hydroelectric         Project;
   Paraguay - Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications             Sectors and
                    Argentina - SEGBA V Power Distribution         Project

1       Loan No. 35201AR for the Second Yacyreth Project. This USD 300 million
loan was approved by the Board on September 29, 1992 to help complete the physical
works for the dam and closed on December 31, 2000. Loan No. 3520-AR was designed
to: (a) help provide an efficient supply of energy by ensuring operation of Yacyreta's first
units with an adequate transmission system; (b) bring about improved environmental
management and appropriate handling of social aspects of Yacyreta; and (c) encourage
private capital participation in EBY.

2        On the whole, the project met its objectives only partially and with considerable
delays. All permanent structures were completed; however, because the reservoir has
remained at the 76 masl first stage, the turbine generating units are delivering only two-
thirds of their rated capacity. The consequent loss of earnings is estimated between
USD 563 million and USD 1.629 billion per year. In addition, there is no clear roadmap
for carrying the project forward to the stage where all units can operate at full capacity.
The objective of bringing about improved environmental management and appropriate
handling of social aspectsof Yacyreta was partly achieved, though with significant delay.
In the same way, the objective of encouraging private capital participation was partly
achieved through the privatization of the 500kV lines linking Yacyreta with the national
interconnected system, and the implementation of some studies assessing options for
privatizing other aspectsof the operation.

3       The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Loan No. 3520-AR has been
completed, reviewed by the Operations Evaluations Department, and was distributed to
the Board on June 28, 2001. The ICR arrived at important conclusions in terms of
assessingpast performance as well as the future of Yacyreta, including the following:      (i)
the Government of Argentina was unable to give the project the priority it deserved
because of the financial crisis of 1995; (ii) frequent changes of Yacyreta's Executive
Director adversely affected EBY's performance; (iii) poor oversight of the areas to be
flooded resulted in invasion by families seeking resettlement compensation; (iv) EBY
was slow in performing land acquisitions and housing construction, adding to pressures
that slowed down project implementation; (v) the Government of Argentina was unable
to reconcile its political interest in expediting the main civil works with existing concerns
about the project's resettlement and environmental impacts; (vi) in making decisions, the
Bank failed to take note of the lessons of previous loans made for the Yacyreta Project,
where lack of counterpart funds was an important factor for poor performance; (vii) the
Borrower was ineffective in obtaining political support to reach key project objectives;
(viii) delay in passing an Expropriation Law in Paraguay slowed land acquisition and
resettlement; and (ix) the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan (PARR) and the
Environmental Management Plan (PMMA)             were only partly implemented, with major
issues remaining outstanding.

Management Report and Recommendation                                                                     49



4       As of February 29, 2004, Loan No. 3520-AR had an outstanding balance of
USD 160,593,19@          due to be repaid by November 2009. During 2002 and 2003, the
averageyearly payment due (including amortization and interest) was USD 34,661,645.

5       Loan      No. 2854-AR         for   the SEGBA          V Power Distribution         Project     (as
amended in 1994 in support of Yacyretg). Loan No. 2854-AR was originally approved
by the Board on June 23, 1997 and signed on June 30, 1988, for USD 276 million. On
August 19, 1994, it was restructured to allow USD 135 million,                     made surplus by the
privatization of SEGBA (the public power utility for Greater Buenos Aires), to be used
for the Yacyreta Project. The loan was amended again, effective December 11, 1997, to
provide increased financial support to the resettlement and environmental operations in
order to ensure the completion of Plan A (activities still pending for 76 masl level) and
Plan B (activities needed to operate for a prolonged period at 76 masl). The closing date
was extended selectively on December 31, 2000 until October 30, 2002, reallocating loan
amounts among already existing categories within                     the project description. These
reallocated resources supported additional development activities for the indigenous
community of Pindo in Paraguay, extension of consulting services contracts for the
resettlement and environmental plans, and the construction of new fish transfer facilities
and baffle plates in the main spillway. Loan No. 2854-AR closed on September 14,2002.
The ICR for the loan is under preparation and will be distributed to the Board this fiscal
year (by June 2004).

6       The proceeds disbursed under Loan No. 2854-AR, totaled USD 257,656,774.2
This loan was fully repaid by March 2003.

7       Loan No. 3842-PA for the Paraguay Reform                        Project    for the Water       and
I!elecommunications          Sectors. This project, originally named the Paraguay Asuncion
Sewerage Project, was approved on February 14, 1995 for USD 46.5 million.                           During
preparation, the project had been developed with the general goal of improving national
urban water and sewerage services through policy reform, and increasing sewerage
coverage and treatment within Asuncion. However, just after project appraisal and three
months prior to project approval, the Government of Paraguay and the Bank agreed to
include a new USD 1.2 million            component to finance basic services, including water
supply, sewerage and related infrastructure, for Encarnacion's Ita Paso neighborhood. By
June 1998 the project had successfully completed programmed activities in Ita Paso by,
inter alia, supplying and installing 600 house water connections with corresponding
meters and meter boxes; constructing a pumping station and a chlorinator                              shed;
constructing 600 residential septic tanks; and installing a mid-voltage power transmission
line. However, the project faced financial difficulties in other areas,ultimately leading to
the partial suspension of disbursements in 1999. The Bank and the Government of
Paraguay agreed to cancel USD 15,000,OOOfrom the loan in November 1999 and to
restructure the project to support the reform of the water and telecom sectors through an
amendment to the Loan Agreement in March 2000. The loan closed on December 31,
2003 and the ICR for the loan is expected to be submitted to the Board by June 2004.


1   This figure reflects the current market value of the disbursed and outstanding amount of the loan.
2   The following amounts were cancelled from the loan: USD 10,464,OOOon December 31,200O and
USD 7,879,226 on September 13,2002.

50                                                                Argentina and Paraguay



8      As of February 29, 2004, Loan No. 3842-PA had an outstanding balance of
LkD 14,548,887 due to be repaid by December 2011. During 2002 and 2003, the average
yearly payment due (including amortization and interest) was USD 3,480,479.

