Page  1
August 4, 1997
His Excellency
Miguel Angel Maidana Zayas 
Minister of Finance 
Chile 128 
Asunción, Paraguay
Re:
PARAGUAY (Asunción Sewerage Project) - Loan No. 3842-PA
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated February 14, 1995 entered into between 
the Republic of Paraguay (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank).
In response to the Borrower’s request to, inter, alia: (a) reallocate part of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (1) which finances civil works to 
Category (3) which finances Consultants’ Services; and (b) reallocate the proceeds of 
the Loan allocated to Category (2) which financed equipment and materials to Category 
(3) which finances Consultants’ Services, as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement; the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement 
as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended by: (a) deleting the word “and” at the end 
of  paragraph “(h)” ; (b) deleting the “period” at the end of paragraph “(i)” and 
replacing it with a “semicolon” and the word “and”; and (c) adding a new paragraph 
“(j)” which shall read as follows: 
 “(j)  ‘CORPOSANA Loan Agreement’ means the  agreement referred 
to in Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement.”.
2.
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
 “(a)   The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works and 
services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan.”.
3.
A new “paragraph (e)” shall be added at the end of paragraph (d) of 
Section 3.01 which shall read as follows:
 “(e) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (c) of  
this Section, and for purposes of assisting CORPOSANA to continue 
carrying out 
the Project, the Borrower shall provide a loan to 
CORPOSANA in amount of at 
least $15,700,000 under an agreement to 
be entered into between the 
Borrower and CORPOSANA under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.”.
4.
Section 3.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed 
by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.”.
5.
Section 6.01 is hereby amended by adding two additional events of 
suspension which shall read as follows:
“(g) The Borrower shall have failed to comply with any of its 
Page  2
obligations under the CORPOSANA Loan Agreement.
(h) CORPOSANA shall have failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under the CORPOSANA Loan Agreement.”.
6.
Section 6.02 (a) is hereby amended as follows:
“(a)  any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (g) or (h) of 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for 
a period of 
thirty days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the 
Borrower;”.
7.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in 
Annex 1 to this Amendment Letter.
8.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“4. The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for such 
expenditures 
under contracts for: (a) works estimated to cost 
less than $2,000,000 
equivalent; and (b) training, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.”.
9.
Schedule 4 is amended to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this Amendment 
Letter.
10.
Subparagraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 is hereby amended 
to read as follows:
 “(a)  the term ‘eligible Categories’ means Categories (1) 
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this 
Agreement;
(b)  the term ‘eligible expenditures’ means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of works and services required for 
the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated form time to 
time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and”.
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original.  This Amendment Letter will be effective as of the date first above 
written once the Bank has received: (a) evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the 
CORPOSANA Loan Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto; and (b) one fully 
executed original of this Amendment Letter.  Please confirm your agreement to the 
foregoing amendments by signing and dating the two counterparts of this Amendment 
Letter.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT 
/s/ Isabel Guerrero 
    Director 
    Country Management Unit for
      Bolivia Paraguay and Perú 
    Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
/s Miguel Angel Maidana Zayas
   Authorized Representative
Page  3
Date:
September 17, 1997 
ANNEX 1
“Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in  
   Expenditures
    Dollar Equivalent)
  to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:
      (a) under Parts B.1 
700,000
  65%
through B.3 of the
       Project
      (b) under Part B.4 
of the Project
    14,990,000
  90%
      (c) under Part B.5 
of the Project
     6,500,000
  65%
      (d) under Part B.6 
of the Project
     3,190,000
  65%
      (e)  under Part C 
of the Project
     1,150,000
  90%
(2) Goods
0
  0%
(3) Consultants’ services
     9,590,000
  90%
(4) Training
850,000
  100%
(5) Refunding of Project 
    Preparation Advance
624,000
  Amounts due pursuant to 
  Section 2.02 (c) of 
  this Agreement
(6) Unallocated
     2,536,000
TOTAL
                 46,500,000”.
ANNEX 2
“SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: 
Procurement of  Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following 
additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
Page  4
accordance with the provisions of Part D.2(a) of this Section, the Bank's prior 
approval will be required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the 
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the 
bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of works in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall cause CORPOSANA to use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary 
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have 
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to use bidding documents 
based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Bidders for works under this Part A estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more. 
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for works to be awarded under Parts A and B 
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part D:
Standard bidding documents for Competitive Bidding
Advertised Locally
All procurement of  works to be awarded under the procedure set forth in Part B 
of this Section shall be carried out using standard bidding documents satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
Page  5
In order to assist CORPOSANA in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause CORPOSANA to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants 
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA 
to employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Bank, the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to use other standard forms agreed with 
the Bank.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of  works referred to in Parts A and B of Section I 
of this Schedule, except that the principle and rule of procurement referred to in 
paragraph 3 below shall not apply to the procurement of  works referred to in Part A 
of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
2.
The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.
3.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in competitive bidding 
advertised locally.
4.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local authorities as 
a prerequisite for bidding, except that, under the procurement procedures set forth in 
Part B of Section I of this Schedule, foreign bidders may be required as a 
prerequisite for bidding, to be registered with local authorities, provided, however, 
that the information to be requested by the Borrower or CORPOSANA, as the case may be, 
to such bidders is of such nature that it will not discourage their participation.
5.
Contract prices for goods and works may be adjusted even if such prices have 
increased by less than 15% of the bid price.
6.
There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be submitted in order for 
a contract to be subsequently awarded.
7.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bidding documents with 
Paraguayan authorities as a prerequisite of bidding.
8.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire local personnel, except for 
unskilled personnel.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following principles and rules of 
procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred 
to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the selection 
process, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants.
2.
Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in a short list on the 
basis of evaluation criteria and terms of reference, both satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with Paraguayan authorities as a prerequisite 
for participating in the selection procedure.
4.
The prices of contracts over one year duration may be adjusted.
Page  6
