                                                                       REPORTNO. 33743




                                         ARGENTINA
        SEGBAV POWERDISTRIBUTIONPROJECT(LOANNO. 2854-AR)



                                          PARAGUAY
 REFORMPROJECTFORTHE WATERAND TELECOMMUNICATIONSSECTORS
                                   (LOANNO. 3842-PA)




                                       Follow Upto the
          Meeting of the ExecutiveDirectorsof the World Bank (May 6,2004)
                 on the InspectionPanelInvestigationReportNo. 27995
             andManagementReport andRecommendation(April6,2004)
      and Progress Reporton Implementationof the ManagementRecommendations
                             andAction Plan(August6,2004)




        PROGRESSREPORT ONIMPLEMENTATIONOFMANAGEMENT

                     RECOMMENDATIONSAND ACTION PLAN



                                      October 25,2005




This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipientsonly inthe
performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.


                                                              CONTENTS

ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
I.   INTRODUCTION.................................................................................................................................           1
11.  UPDATE ON THE YACYRETA PROJECT ......................................................................................                                   1
I11. PROGRESSON IMPLEMENTATIONOF THE MANAGEMENT ACTIONPLAN.......................                                                                            3

     Resettlement PlanUpdate.....................................................................................................................
     Social Issues ......................................................................................................................................... 4
                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                                                                                                             5
     Monitoring of EBY Compliancewith its Obligationsto Affected Parties...........................................
     Social Communication .........................................................................................................................

     Redevelopment of Encarnaci6n............................................................................................................                6
                                                                                                                                                             8
     Additional Measures that Address Issues Identifiedby the Panel........................................................                                  9
     ReservoirLevel and Other EnvironmentalIssues..............................................................................
     Monitoring of ReservoirLevel..........................................................................................................                  10
                                                                                                                                                            -10
     EnvironmentalIssues Associatedwith FutureWater Level Rise.......................................................                                        11
     Other EnvironmentalIssues................................................................................................................               12
IV. PROJECT SUPERVISIONAND COLLABORATION WITH THE IDB.........................................                                                              13
V. CONCLUSIONSAND NEXT STEPS ................................................................................................                               15
ANNEX I. YACYRETA PROYECT OVERVIEW ..................................................................................                                       16
ANNEX I1. ANNOTATED MATRIX OF THE MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
AND PROGRESSTO DATE..................................................................................................................... 17

            ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

BP        Bank Procedure

C D D     Community DrivenDevelopment

CPES      Centro Paraguay0 de Estudios Sociol6gicos (Paraguayan Center for
          Sociological Studies)
EBY       Entidad Binacional Yacyreti (Yacyreti Bi-NationalEntity, or
          Corporation)
EMP       Resettlement and Environmental Management Plan

FEPREL    Fondo Econ6mico Productivo y de Reconversih Laboral, (Productive
          and Retraining Fund)
FEDAYIM   Federationde Afectados por Yacyreti de Itapua y Misiones
          (Federation o f Yacyreti DamAffected Persons inItapua and Misiones
          [Paraguay11
FONDIS    Social InvestmentFund

IDB       Inter-American Development Bank

m3/s      [Flow rate] incubic meters per second

Mas1      Meters above sea level

NGO       Non-Govemmental Organization

OP        Operational Policy (World Bank)

PARR      Plan de Acci6n para el Reasentamiento y la Rehabilitacibn
          (Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan, component o f the EMP)
PDA       Programa de Desborde de Arroyos (Creek Flood Program)

PMMA      Plan de Manejo del Medio Ambiente (Environmental Management Plan,
          component o f the EMP)
PTY       Plande Terminaci6n de Yacyreti (Yacyreti Completion Plan)

SAS       Secretaria de Acci6n Social (Social Action Secretariat - Paraguay)

SEGBA     Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires, S.A. (Electricity Services
          Corporation o f Greater Buenos Aires)
TOR       Terms o f Referente

UNE       University o f Encarnaci6n (Paraguay)

UNLP      University o f LaPlata (Argentina)

US$       United States Dollars

V RAN    FifthHighLevelMeeting

WB        World Bank

                                         I.INTRODUCTION


 1.      Yacyreta i s a multi-billion U S dollar hydroelectric facility on the Parani River, along
the border between Argentina and Paraguay. The Project was partly financed by several Bank
loans (see Annex 1): the Argentina Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project (Loan 1761-ARY1979), the
Argentina Electric Power Sector IProject (Loan 2998-ARY 1988), the Argentina Second
Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3520-AR, 1992), and the Argentina SEGBA V Power
Distribution Project (Loan 2854-ARYas amended in 1994). The Paraguay Reform Project for
the Water and Telecommunications Sectors (originally called the Asunci6n Sewerage Project,
Loan 3842-AR, 1995) financed infrastructure works benefiting about 3,000 people resettled in
Encarnacih, Paraguay.         On M a y 30, 2002, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for
Inspection concerning the Project, linked to Loans 3520-AR and 3842-PA and subsequently
conducted a full Inspection o f the Project.

2.       On May 6, 2004 the Board Executive Directors discussed and approved the
Management Response to the Inspection Panel's in-depth study.' The Board also asked for
follow-up reporting.         A 90-day Progress Report was issued on August 6, 2004.                      The
Management Response and Recommendation also envisaged subsequent annual reports. This
report constitutes the first such annual report and covers the period August 2004 -mid-
September 2005.

3.       Consistent with the Board's guidance, this report includes updates in the following
areas: (a) implementation o f the Bank's Action Plan and additional measures identified by
Management with respect to the affected parties (including the 2,416 families already relocated
and the estimated 6,000 families to be relocated in Paraguay prior to completion o f the
Project); (b) grievance procedures for resolving claims related to the Project; (c) the activities
o f the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) inthe Project, and how the IDB and the Bank
have been collaborating on issues identified during the Inspection; and (d) decisions taken with
respect to the reservoir's water level and potential impacts. Annex 1 provides a datasheet on
the Project; and Annex 2 provides a more detailed presentation o f implementation progress on
the key issues covered inthe Management Action Plan.


                          11 UPDATE ON THE YACYRETA PROJECT
                             -
4.       The Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project i s the result o f a 1973 treaty between Argentina and
Paraguay that created the bi-national entity, Entidad Binacional Yacyreta, (EBY) to implement
the Project. The Project includes construction o f a dam with the capacity to generate 3,200
MW o f electricity, a secondary dam with spillways to maintain ecological flows, an earth dam
about 65 kilometers long, a navigation lock, irrigation water intakes, and a fish passage facility.
The dam was built to operate at full capacity at a level o f 83 meters above sea level (masl).
' Following  the Inspection Panel Request for Inspection, the Executive Directors authorized a fill Inspection
Panel investigation on September 9, 2002. The IP report was completed and submitted to the Board on February
24, 2004 ("Paraguay: Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunication Sectors and Argentina: SEGBA V
Power Distribution Project"). The "Management Response and Recommendations" was submitted to the Board
on April 6,2004.


                                                      1

 However, since various resettlement, environmental and other complementary civil works were
 not then completed, it was agreed in 1994 that the reservoir level would be filled only to the
 level o f 76 masl. With the necessary works still not completed, the hydroelectric plant has
 been operating at 60 percent o f its capacity since that date.

 5.       O n June 4, 2004, EBY submitted a formal Project Completion Plan (PTY) to the Bank
 and the IDB. This Plan, prepared by EBY and the Governments o f Argentina and Paraguay,
 reflects the determination o f both governments to complete the investments required, including
 the full range o f necessary environmental and social measures. The PTY addresses most o f the
 provisions in the Legal Agreements with the Bank on raising the reservoir above the current
 level.2 Under the PTY, the reservoir level would be raised to its full height, 83 masl, by
 October 2008. The estimated cost o f completing the Project is US$653.4 million (as per the
 PTY o f June 2004), including US$65.4 million for activities currently underway, US$563.7
 million for additional investments needed to raise the reservoir level to 83 masl, and US$24.3
 million for follow-on investments after the reservoir is raised to its final level. The PTY
 proposes that the investments be financed by the Government o f Argentina (US$563.7 million)
 and the undisbursed balance o f an existing IDB loan o f US$90million (as o f June 2004).3

 6.      Implementation o f the PTY i s progressing although at a slower rate than anticipated by
 both governments a year ago. The Argentine government estimates that, as o f mid-September,
 2005, delays were running at about 3-6 months. Specifically, there have been significant
delays inworks that were nearly ready for contracting a year ago (including the contract for the
 10 km Aguapey dike, which has an estimated completion time o f 36 months), and in starting
up other key works, such as those associated with resettling the business district o f
Encarnacih that will be extensively flooded when the water level rises.

7.       Other factors may also contribute to delays. EBY has proposed a strategy to streamline
procurement procedures, but this plan has not been approved by the two governments.
Revisions to the EBY treaty between Argentina and Paraguay have been discussed but are not
yet finalized. Finally, changes inthe structure o f EBYto improve its functioning for this phase
o f the Project have not been made, despite a condition o f the IDB loan extension that called for
a study by a high level management consultancy and subsequent implementation o f
management reforms.

8.       Among some thirty social and environmental Legal Conditions first agreed upon
between the Bank and project counterparts in 1992, over half have been met, but five others
may require a year or more to complete (see Box 1). This uneven progress has led Bank
Management to reaffirm in writing, both earlier this year (February 15`h) and recently (July

*  The P T Y i s not referenced in any Legal Agreements currently in effect since it is only a year old and the Legal
Agreements were last amended in 1997. The term "Legal Agreements" mean the Loan Agreement (the Loan
Agreement) entered into between the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Project Agreement
(the Project Agreement) entered into between the Bank and EBY and/or the Third Owners Agreement (the Third
Owners Agreement) entered into between the Argentine Republic, the Republic o f Paraguay and the Bank, all
dated November 16, 1992, and as thereafter amended (most recently inDecember 1997).
3 "Environmental and Resettlement Program: Yacyreta Hydropower Project." On April 12, 2005, IDB agreed to
extend the closing date for that loan until January 26, 2006. As o f August 3 1, 2005 the undisbursed loan amount
was approximately US$62 million.


                                                         2

22nd),that it is not able to issue a no objection for even a partial raising o f the water level, from
76 to 77 masl, at this time.


                 Box 1 Overview of the Legal ConditionsRequiringCompliancePrior to the Bank
                                        GivingitsNo Objection to Water LevelRise /*

A. Items Close to Completion

           Compensation for Lands along the shore o f the Reservoir;
           Completion o f the Municipal Market inEncarnacion;
           Compensation paid to all Brick and Tile Makers to whom it i s due;
           Completion o f the D a mOperational Manual to the satisfaction o fthe World Bank;
           Creation o f compensatory Natural Areas for inundated lands;
           Completion o f Archaeological Survey and Salvage through 77 masl plus buffer zone;
           Treatment o f solid waste landfills to be inundated inEncarnacion;
          Relocationo f the Encarnacion Municipal Slaughterhouse;
           Independent Evaluation o f Environmental Management Planby internationally known experts;
           Study o frisks to human health from the urbanlateral bays that will form when the reservoir levelrises to
           83 masl.

B.Items Likelyto RequireOne or More Years to Comulete

          Completed relocation, compensation paid, and issuance o f land titles;
          Grievance Settlement System inplace;
          Implementationo f a Social Communications Program;
          Completion o f Sewerage System for Encarnacion;
          Legal Transfer o f all public works to Local Authorities.

.........................
Note (*): Of 30 legal conditions dating back to 1992, about halfwere evaluatedto be completed as of the end of June, 2005. According to
EBY, afew others were completed as of September2005 (to be confirmed during the next supervisionmission in the fall). A brief summary is
provided in Annex 1.




I11 PROGRESS ONIMPLEMENTATIONOF THE MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
     -
9.        In its response to the Inspection Panel's Investigation Report, Management's Action
Plan laid out a set o f measures to help achieve desired outcomes (Annex 11). Some measures
were and are directly under Management control, while others are actions only EBY or
government authorities can take, and concerning which the Bank's role i s to urge and support
EBY and the government authorities. The Management Action Planincludes references to the
Legal Conditions summarized above as well as other actions.

10.       Since the Board approved the Management Action Plan, the Bank's Yacyretk
supervision team has had four missions to the field (June, July, and December 2004, and April
2005), several smaller missions to Buenos Aires, and two small missions to Asunci6n (see
Section IVYbelow). In addition, a High-Level Meeting was held in Washington on September
9-10, 2004, with Ministerial-level representatives from both governments, and high level


                                                                    3

 delegations from EBY, IDB, and the World Bank. All missions were filly coordinated with
 the IDB Yacyreta team.

 The three main categories in the Management's Action Plan are Social, Environmental, and
 project supervision issues. Progress to date i s summarized below.

 Social Issues

 11.     Overall progress on settling the social issues surrounding the project i s still lagging.
 The Bank continues to urge results and provide support to EBY and government authorities in
 the following areas:      (a) updating and implementing the Resettlement Plan; (b) improving
 communications between EBY and the affected parties; (c) improving the dispute resolution
 and grievance procedures followed by EBY, and (d) intensive monitoring o f compliance with
 past and current agreements.

Resettlement Plan Update

 12.     In July 2004, EBY agreed to update the Resettlement Plan (PARR) by February 28,
2005. The Bank has yet to receive the draft revised resettlement plan. Staffhave beenadvised
that the number o f families that will require resettlement in Paraguay may be greater than the
initial estimate o f 6,000 and the number o f families awaiting resettlement in Argentina i s
estimated at 800. Several missions, one joint WB-IDB-sponsored workshop, and a full-time
IDB consultant (recommended by the Bank) have directly supported the PARR updating
process.

 13.     The resettlement o f 6,000 families using the same standards as in the recent housing
projects designed and built by EBY in Paraguay alone would require approximately 260
hectares o f land in appropriate locations o f which EBY has so far acquired only a fraction.
Construction o f 6,800 additional homes at an estimated unit cost o f US$16,000 would generate
a total cost o f about US$109 million plus the cost o f land and complementary infrastructure.
Considerations o f cost as well as a concem with providing socially appropriate solutions to the
problems o f resettled families have led the Bank to repeatedly urge EBY to reconsider and
diversify its resettlement model.          (For example, at a two-day seminar on the topic o f
rehabilitation on April 11-12, 2005 in Posadas, Bank staff presented altemative approaches to
income restoration based on examples from Colombia and elsewhere and argued for greater
flexibility inorder to meet a variety o f need^.^) To date, EBY management has respondedthat
it will not consider a different model, invoking "urban crowding," and consequent delinquency,
as an explanation. Paraguayan authorities appear to support considering different options in
the resettlement approach. This topic will remain a key point o f discussion as EBY completes
the updatedResettlement Plan. When the Bankreceives that Plan, staffwill review it carehlly
for consistency with the Bank's Policy on Involuntary Resettlement including the valuation
system and attention to the most vulnerable segments o f the affected population.

14.     The Inspection Panel report described problems with host communities and the
overcrowding o f facilities caused by the influx o f resettlers.           However, Bank supervision

 A summary o f findings from the workshop is available andwas sharedwith the authoritiesinApril 2005.


                                                      4

missions did not corroborate this, and the NGOs advocating on behalf o f affected parties have
not made this an issue in meetings with the Bank.                      Bank supervision confirms through
 community meetings and anecdotal evidence that the housing projects have improved the
 availability o f services such as schools, nursery schools, community centers, health posts,
 athletic facilities, houses o f worship and other facilities benefiting both host communities and
resett~ers.~

Social Communication

 15.     A prevailing attitude among residents in the Project-affected areas is that EBY is the
 source o f nearly all the social and environmental problems inthe affected communities. Local
residents appear to frequently assume that EBY has unlimited resources that it could devote to
resolving these problems. The continuing difficulties in EBY's communication with affected
communities and individuals have delayed progress in new areas o f investment and resolution
o f old grievances. EBY has trained teams o f social workers working out o f neighborhood
offices (ojcinas barriales) who appear to be well motivated and familiar with the people they
serve. However, they are not empowered to speak for EBY regarding entitlements, dispute
resolution, and the future timing o f events.

 16.     In response to this situation, the Bank and IDB have urged, through the Legal
Agreements as well as in response to the Inspection Panel Report, that EBY adopt an effective
social communication program. The Bank has worked with EBY in the design o f a two-way
social communications program that goes beyond the occasional local interview and printed
brochures. A Bank communication specialist and an external consultant worked with EBY in
June and July 2004 to develop a framework, options, and content for a social communications
program to reach all affected groups.                IDB brought an expert consultant to the area in
December 2004 and again in March 2005. The April 2005 Bank mission included a social
development specialist familiar with post-conflict situations who participated inthe workshop
on rehabilitation. At EBY's request, in June 2005, IDB and the Bank jointly produced a
detailed social communication program. So far, this has not been adoptedby EBY.

17.     On June 23, 2005, EBYnotifiedthe Bank that it had signed a contract with a consulting
firm to set up a communication program for EBY, but that contract is not based on the TOR
drafted by the two Banks. EBY's communication program appears to be primarily a publicity
campaign aimed at projecting a positive image of EBY and its actions. Defending its actions
may be a valid objective for EBY. However, as specified in the Legal Agreements, a social
communication program must also provide accurate, up-to-date information to affected people
and others regarding the nature o f entitlements available, and clearly advise when relevant
actions will be taken.6 Absent such a program, rent seeking is likely to continue while
demands may become ever more strident.                    Given the present state o f affairs, the Bank's


5Every Bank field mission listed in B o x 3, below, visited the communities and conducted meetings with affected
groups.
 Amendment to Loan Agreement, December 11, 1997, Schedule B (1) (b), "Implement a Social Communications
Program designed to inform all beneficiaries and affected people o f the timetable o f delivery for Base Program
works, goods and services, together with another such program designed to informthe general public o f Argentina
and Paraguay regarding the progress and results o f the resettlement and environmental programs (EMP)."


                                                         5

 primary concem i s to continue to urge that EBY communicate compensation rules
 transparently and to set a clear timetable for implementing social actions.

 Monitoring of EBY Compliance with its Obligations to Affected Parties

 18.       Over the past year, the WB/IDB missions have held several meetings with NGOs and
 community groups inboth Argentina and Paraguay. By far the more serious issues arise on the
 right bank (Paraguay).            A meeting in April 2005 in Encamacih was attended by several
 different neighborhood groups and also by the Intendentes o f Encamacibn, Cambyreta and
 fieembucu and by the Catholic Bishops o f Encamaci6n and fieembuc6.                                           Complaints by
 resettlers focused on ongoing problems relating to access to work and income, and on actual
 and possible future environmental problems inthe immediate vicinity o f housing projects. The
 principal issues raised are summarized inBox 2 below.


                       Box 2: PrinciDalIssuesRaisedby Communityand Advocacy Groups/*

      9 Unresponsiveness ofEBYto community needs;
      9 Omissionofpeople from entitlements, e.g. possible exclusion fromthe PARR;
      9 Inadequateprograms for rehabilitation;
      9 Inadequate compensation for brick andtile makers;
      9 Improper size ofpipeusedfor waste water inEncarnacih;
      9 Improper designofpumpingstations for sewage system;
      9 Floodinginthe vicinity ofArroyo Pori;
      9 Flooding and contamination fromurbancreeks inEncarnacih;
     9 Inadequate transport facilities fromArroyo Pori;
     9 Concerns aboutthe possible endofBankProject supervision; and
     9 The responsibility ofthe Banks (IBRDandIDB)for the current situation.

Note: (*) Issuescompiled from community and NGO meetings held during four separate field missionsbetween June 2004 -April 2005, as
well as from correspondencereceivedover the past year.




 19.       In all meetings, inaddition to listening and understanding the issues at stake, both the
WB and the IDB have emphasized the need for community groups to have direct contact with
EBY. At present, some community groups are unwilling to engage in direct dialogue with
EBY, claiming that EBY is unresponsive to their demands andneeds. At the same time, EBY
staff often refuses to meet directly with affected community groups, asserting that many
leaders may be driven by personal or political motives.                                  Both the WB and IDB have
continually pressed both sides to meet directly and develop more systematic two-way
communication. This message has also been delivered in writing to both sides, such as in
correspondence during April 2005 with the Catholic Bishops o f Encamacih and fieembucu.
In its dialogue with both governments, particularly in February 2005 at a meeting with EBY,
provincial govemors, and selected local mayors, the Bank urged the continued close
involvement o f local authorities inreducing tensions.




                                                              6

  20.     Separately, the Bank missions have also acknowledged that, some community
  complaints over technical issues, such as the size o f sewer lines or the desigr'of pumping
  stations, have a weak technical basis. As the Bank has insisted in dialogue and in its aide
  memoire, however, they nonetheless deserve a full response from EBY.7

  GrievanceMechanism

  21.     Since M a y 2004, the Bank has systematically helped support EBY in improving its
  grievance resolution mechanism.            In mid-2004, the Bank retained a law firm, Baker &
  McKenzie, and a systems analyst, to help EBY organize its system for processing claims and
  grievances. The analysis was based on a review o f 61,661 notes inEBY's files (including both
  internal and external communications), as well as a detailed review o f a sample o f 200
  randomly selected claims against EBY in Paraguay. Baker & McKenzie discovered that the
  number o f registeredclaims for compensation against EBY amounts to some 2,577 monetary
  claims, far fewer than the reported 20,000 outstanding claims from affected persons or groups.
  Baker & McKenzie's detailed report, aimed at helping EBY develop a formal claims
management system, was delivered to EBY inApril 2005. Baker & McKenzie also produced a
computerized case management system compatible with that used by EBY, together with a set
o f principles and procedures compatible with Paraguayan law for claims settlement. These
principles include setting up a public information system that would advise potential claimants
regarding procedures, establishing fixed response periods, and monitoring o f the claims
response system.

22.      Inaddition, inlate 2004, the Bank commissioned a study dealing with possible options
for independent extra judicial grievance resolution mechanisms.                        The report8 examined
alternative dispute resolution systems and reviewed their strengths and weaknesses and the
conditions under which they could work best.                   It also provided illustrative examples o f
alternative dispute resolution from a number o f different countries and reviewed legislation
pertaining to this topic inParaguay and Argentina.

23.      In July 2005, EBY announced to the Bank that it was creating a formal grievance
procedure, approved by its Board o f Directors on September 12,2005. This procedure sets out
specific procedures for receiving, registering, and treating complaints, and includes specific
time limits for dealing with complaints. The overall process i s to be overseen by EBY's Legal
Department but implemented by the Resettlement Departments on right and left banks,
respectively. The EBY Board resolution makes reference to the Bank's recommendations and
includes a computerized system for accessing, tracking and evaluating responses to claims.
The procedure i s intended to provide a final response to all claims but allows for outside
mediation incertain unspecified cases. The Bank regards this resolution as progress and hopes
it will be implemented quickly and transparently.

'One   point o f friction has been over the design o f the sewerage system in southem Encamacibn. Plans were
made publicly available.     Bank missions have recommended that the NGOs seek the assistance o f qualified
engineers to review these plans, and perhaps to discuss any concems with the construction contractors. However,
some NGO representatives have not requested technical advice and have simply declared that, "while this
*[sewerage system design] may be standard practice elsewhere inthe world, it i s not acceptable inEncamacibn."
  Nora Luzi, "Mecanismos de Resolucibn de Conflictos: Proyecto Hidroelkctrico Yacyreta," 2004.


                                                         7

 24.     With specific regard to brick and tile makers, some twenty-nine claims relating to the
 alleged lack o f adequate compensation for the loss o f raw material apparently remain
 unresolved. A recent monetary offer by the Paraguayan government was not accepted. There
 are also outstanding claims concerning whether compensation paid to some brick and tile
 producers to cover severance pay to their workers was actually received by those workers. In
 both cases, EBY's position i s that it has fulfilled its obligations. The Bank's view, which has
 been repeatedly conveyed to EBY and govemment authorities throughout the year-long
 dialogue on dispute resolution, is that all pending claims should have the possibility o f appeal
 to an independent extra-judicial mechanism. Until the system referred to in the previous
 paragraph i s fully implemented by EBY, the brick and tile-related claims are likely to remain
 pending.

 Redevelopmentof Encarnacia'n

 25.     The Inspection Panel Report also covered the redevelopment o f Encamacibn. The city
 has grown fi-om a population o f about 25,000 in the 1970s to approximately 65,000 today.
 Most o f its downtown area will be flooded as the reservoir levels climb to 83 mad. During
 1997-1998s, a master plan for Encamaci6n was prepared and a formal zoning resolution was
 adopted by the Municipality o f Encamacih. This planneeds updating.

 26.     The Bank has indicated to EBY and municipal officials duringits field missions inboth
 2004 and 2005 that these are issues that require urgent attention and full consultation with
merchants and other stakeholders. EBY and the municipal authorities are only starting now, in
 late 2005, to address the relocation and redesign o f the downtown business district o f
Encamacih.       EBY recently hired a firm that designed a riverside tourism development in
Buenos Aires to advise on the Encamaci6n redevelopment. While the Bank has routinely
offered during to help EBY find appropriate technical assistance, EBY's management has not
wanted the Bank to be involved in this process. The next opportunity for increased Bank
involvement, therefore, will be in the context o f commenting on the revised PARR -which
should include the redevelopment o f Encamacih among its goals.

27.      A related area of Bank and IDB intervention has been to encourage EBY and the local
municipalities on both sides o f the river strengthen their institutional links. EBY agreed to
submit to IDB and the Bank, during the last quarter o f 2004, terms o f reference for the
provision o f technical assistance to municipalities in preparing urban development plans. The
TOR has not beenreceived. Still, EBY has improved its relationship with municipalities inthe
region as evidenced by a series of agreements signed inFebruary 2005.

28.     Regarding illegal occupation o f the areas to be inundated, visual inspection o f these
areas does not show significant recent in-migration. Little new construction is evident and


  InEncamacion, EBYbuilt a new Municipal Market but it has been empty for more than two years for logistical
reasons and because merchants in downtown Encamacion have refused to move there without additional
compensation. A new slaughterhouse was begunmore than two years ago but also remains unfinished. The Legal
Agreements require transfer ownership and operation o f these facilities to the local authorities, but this has not
occurred.


                                                    8

 there are only a few homes and businesses that appear to have been built recently in the areas
 below 83 masl. The revised PARR should provide precise data on this issue. EBY has assured
 the Bank that special arrangements are in place with the Paraguayan and Argentine Police as
 well as a private security company to prevent additional families from settling inareas that will
 be flooded when the reservoir i s raised beyond 76 masl. This i s an obligation under the Legal
 Agreements. EBY also agreed in the December 2004 Aide Memoire to place highly visible
 signs and warnings against squatters in the areas to be inundated, but as o f July 2005 it had not
 done so. The Bank has urged further vigilance on the part o f the Encamaci6n municipality in
 meetings inJune 2004 and February 2005.'0

 Additional Measures thatAddress Issues Identified by the Panel

 29.     As Management indicated during the May 6, 2004 Board discussion , two additional
 measures are being developed by the Government o f Paraguay and EBY to assist in the
 rehabilitation o f affected families by offering funds for community driven development (CDD)
 local investments. These are: (a) the Productive Fund created by the Government o f Paraguay
 to support productive projects for people affected when the reservoir was filled to 76 masl but
 were not included in the PARR; and (b) FONDIS set up by EBY and managed by an NGO to
 implement rehabilitation programs inthe resettlement sites (the Social Investment Fund).

 30.     The Productive Fund (FEPREL) has US$6 million in funding available for Project
 affected people, but to date, only US$2 million has been paid out to selected rice farmers,
 fishennen and washerwomen against claimed losses caused by the filling o f the reservoirs.
 Following recent Government o f Paraguay complaints about delays in the further release o f
this funding, EBY's Council recently authorized payments to additional beneficiaries certified
 as eligible by EBY and the Paraguayan Secretariat for Social Action (SAS). These funds are
disbursed as a lump sum equivalent to US$500 per family followed by 18 monthlypayments o f
US$@ each. The payments are to be used by the beneficiaries for amortization o f debts,
clothing, food, health care, micro enterprises, funeral costs, home appliances and other
expenses, and are expected to be accounted for every 60 days. While possibly serving to
satisfy grievances associated with the Project, this Fund has not supported retraining or
productive activities per se.

31.      The Social Investment Fund (FONDIS) i s a set-aside o f about US$500 thousand by
EBY to provide CDD-type support to productive projects for resettled families as part o f the
rehabilitation programs included inthe PARR. By statute FONDIS i s limited to those families
preparing collective proposals for productive activities, and i s not available for compensation.
Inaddition, eligibility is limited to resettled families who were registered inthe 1990 census.
The Fund, modeled on a social investment fund program (FOPAR) implemented inArgentina
in the 1990s, was until recently managed by the Asunci6n-based Paraguayan Center for
Sociological Studies (CPES). During 2004-2005, some five projects received support (out o f
some 20 that submitted applications) at a cost o f about US$35,000 each, including community


lo Under the Legal Agreements, the Government o f Paraguay has agreed to bear the costs o f resettling families
who moved into areas to be flooded after the latest census, the so-called "extracensales."         However, all the
financing for the project comes from Argentina against future revenues from the sale of electricity so, inpractice,
the Paraguayan authorities appear to have little incentive to tightly limitadditional migration into these areas.


                                                         9

 bakeries, a pubic telephone bureau, and a small clothing factory. These projects have been
 successful in creating viable small enterprises (at least in the short term), but approval o f
 further projects is currently suspended because the CPES contract was not renewed. In 2005
 EBY took over direct management o f this fund, and the FONDIS project has not advanced
 since that time.

 32.      As seen above, EBY and the local authorities (particularly on the Paraguayan side)
 have relied heavily on cash payments to resettled families as a tool for rehabilitation. This has
 the benefit o f allowing each family to decide how it wishes to invest its resources. However, it
 also stimulates an increasing demand for cash payments by affected people and rent seekers
 alike. EBY may have reduced some o f the demand by requiring a signed release, but the pool
 o f "affected" people who demand or are likely to demand additional compensation is large and
 expanding. In addition, cash payments may also undermineproductive programs that EBY or
 local governments may wish to promote. Bank missions have made these points several times
 including in the rehabilitation workshop held in April 2005, and most recently with the
 Paraguayan authorities in early September 2005. To date, however, EBY and the authorities
 continue to rely on cash compensation as a method o f rehabilitation.

 33.      Even in a cash-dominated environment for settling claims, a transparent and well
 administered claims settlement procedure is essential. A suitable grievance procedure i s part o f
 the Bank's resettlement policy and a comerstone o f good social policy in general. The Bank
 has emphasized this point repeatedly during all mission discussions o f dispute resolution
 strategy.

Reservoir Level and Other Environmental Issues

 34.     The main environmental issues raised by the project and included in the Management
Action Plan are: (a) monitoring the reservoir water level to ensure compliance with the Legal
Agreements; (b) the environmental impact o f future water level rise, especially related to
Encamacion sewage but also tied to biodiversity conservation; and (c) the environmental
impact o f the project's civil works, including urban improvements, embankments and
resettlement areas.

Monitoring of Reservoir Level

35.      The Yacyreth Power Plant Operational Manual sets forth operational rules for the dam
to maintain water levels in Encamacion and Posadas, 100 kilometers upstream. The Manual
establishes that the power plant will be operated in such a way that, for periods o f normal flow
(defined as flows up to 13,000 m3/s),the expected water levels at Encamacibn-Posadas would
be maintained at 76 masl. Water levels above 76 masl at Encamacion-Posadas are to be
expected for flows above 13,000 m3/s and are consistent with operating procedures for such
higher flows.

36.      The Inspection Panel found that the reservoir was sometimes being operated above the
legally agreed-upon level during periods o f low flow. InMarch 2004, Management contracted
an independent study that confirmed those findings, and EBY adjusted the operation o f the



                                                10

 reservoir to follow the Operational Manual.                In July 2004, the Bank contracted further
 independent monitoring o f the water levels for the period o f August to December 2004. That
 analysis found that during periods o f normal flow (43,500 m2/sec), again, the reservoir was
 being occasionally operated at levels o f up to 76.7 masl at the Posadas/Encarnacih axis, albeit
 more frequently within the band o f 76 - 76.5 masl. Further analysis shows that the water
 levels were above 76 masl on about two-thirds o f the days (69 out o f 100 days total) o f normal
 flow duringthe periodmonitored.

 37.     EBY responded on July 19, 2005 that it did not agree with the independent analysis
 showing chronic high water levels, because it was not based on the latest version o f the Dam
 Operational Manual. That version, dated October 2004, was not accepted by the World Bank -
 - partly because it specifically allows for operation o f the dam within "Bands" that could
 permit operation o f the reservoir at levels above 76 masl at Encarnaci6n-Posadas."                    Pending
 resolution o f the technical disagreements over the Dam Operational Manual, the Bank i s
 continuing to contract for the independent monitoring o f the water level.l2

 38.     Current Bank supervision efforts in this regard are focused, therefore, on three areas:
 (a) further efforts with a view to operation by EBY o f the reservoir at or below 76 masl; (b)
resolution o f disagreements over the latest version o f the D a m Operational Manual, which has
direct implications concerning the acceptable water level; and (c) maintaining mechanisms for
continuing the independent monitoring o f the water level.

Environmental Issues Associated with Future Water Level Rise

39.      Futurewater level rise may create problems with disease vectors inthe lateralbays that
will form in creeks around Encarnaci6n as the reservoir rises to its design level o f 83 masl,
particularly with regard to disease vectors. To address this problem, a sewage treatment plant
and sewage collection system in Encarnacibn's southem zone is underway with IDB funding.
IDB advises that the design o f the sewage treatment plant in Encarnacih is currently being
revised and the December 2005 conclusion date i s no longer valid. Completion i s planned for
2006.

40.      As yet there i s still no plan in place to make the connections to households after the
sewerage investments are complete. Since household connections remain, in EBY's view, a
Municipal and household responsibility, and since the municipality o f Encarnacih says it has
no resources to take on this task, there i s no plan for financing household connections.
Similarly, neither EBY nor the municipality have plans to construct sewerage collection lines
inthe northem part o f the city (and available IDB financing is insufficient for these purposes).
Inresponse, the Bank proposed that EBY convene an expert panel to review these issues and
propose a comprehensive program o f measures to minimize the risks posed by the urban bays
when the reservoir is operated at its design level,I3 but EBY prefers to evaluate the situation


"TheBank's commentsonVersion        IV of the DamOperational Manual were sent onMay 20, 2005; on July 12',
EBYresponded that it disagrees with the Bank's comments but didnot provide details.
I 2EBY's website includes data on reservoir levels from different sources, but not ina format that is accessible to
the public or that allows verification o f compliance during periods o f normal flow.     See the following link:
httu:/lwww.ebv,org.ar/site/06/links.htm.



                                                      11

 only after it has completed its environmental analysis. This set o f issues remains on hold,
 therefore, at EBY's request, since the studies it has commissioned are behind schedule and not
 yet complete.

 41.     In terms of mitigating the biodiversity impact of water level rise, the Bank has
 examined complaints from NGOs that payments to the NGOs responsible for managing
 protected areas have been delayed. EBY assured the Bank that these payments have now been
 made and EBY has agreed to make future payments ina timely fashion. EBY has continued to
 acquire land to compensate for the flooded areas. In the context o f its periodic review o f the
 Legal Agreements, the Bank has continued to insist that the compensatory protected areas are
 fully implemented.

 Other Environmental Issues

 42.     The environmental impacts associated with project completion are best addressed
 through improved environmental screening procedures for planned infrastructure and
 resettlement-related works.      Bank environmental staff have assisted EBY in updating its
 screening procedures, which include enhancements in design, construction, and quality
 assurance o f remaining civil works at existing and future resettlement sites. A report was
issued in March 2004 - and subsequently approved by the EBY Board - providing detailed
guidelines on screening o f potential resettlement and other sites.l4

43.      Regarding the specific concern identified by the Panel with flooding near the Arroyo
P o r iresettlement site, Bank missions have met during every field mission during 2004-05 with
affected parties and EBY on this subject, and demanded that EBY do everything possible to
resolve a rainwater drainage problem that periodically flooded several houses and
contaminated household wells. In response, EBY provided all the host-family households in
this basin with a potable water system free o f charge, eliminating the well contamination
problem. EBY has recently informed the Bank that this problem has now been resolved by
completion o f a canal to convey rainfall runoff to the Arroyo P o r i Creek. Final works to cover
the canal for safety reasons are underway.           The status will be checked during the next
supervision mission.

44.      As to the quality o f civil works in the Arroyo P o r iresettlement site, two different Bank
and IDB field missions visited the site and found the quality o f construction to be generally
high compared with similar sites elsewhere.           The homes are large by local and regional
standards and are solidly built with locally produced materials and with good quality fixtures.
Streets are surfaced with paving stones and are generally well built with a few minor drainage
problems that have mostly been corrected.




l3Inthe December 2004 Aide Memoire and reiterated inthe April 2005 Aide Memoire.
l4Guia Para la Categorizacih y Definici6n de Requerimientos Ambientales de Proyectos de Infraestructura
Financiados por la EBY (Marzo 2004).


                                                   12

        I V PROJECT SUPERVISIONAND COLLABORATIONWITH THE IDB
            -
 45.     Bank Management has carried out enhanced supervision to better monitor progress in
  addressing the issues that had been identified. The Box below details the supervision missions
 conducted by the Bank since the Management Plan was adopted by the Board in M a y 2004.
  Complete documentation on these visits can be found in the Bank's electronic document
 retrieval system.

 46.     Throughout this period, the Bank and IDB have fully integrated all full missions and
 high-level meetings, and have coordinated informally at every step. During the joint missions,
 Bank and IDB staff have articulated a common position.


               Box 3: List of BankMissionsand Meetings,June 2004 - mid-September 2005


     MissionDates                                                                  Topics Covered

3610812004  0610812004                                                     Reviewo fthe Management
                                                                           Action Plan and preparation for
                                      B.Fonseca, IDB                       FifthHigh-Level Meeting (V
                                                                           RAN).

1611412004  0612112004 Posadas      IID. Gross,
                                      R.Pinheiro, IDB
                                      C. Lopez-Ocaiia, Consultant, IDB
                                               co-TTL anthropologist       Intergovernmental Agreement:
                       Encamacion     C. Brandon, Sector Leader              Paraguay and Argentina
                       Buenos Aires G. Sanchez, Civil Society Specialist   Tmst Account
                                      R. GranC, Consulting Attorney (Baker Management Plan
                                          & Mckenzie)                      Control and Supervision
                                      B.Fonseca, Social Specialist, IDB    Updating o f PARR
                                      S. Melgago, Resettlement Specialist, Grievance Mechanism
                                          IDB                              Brick makers
                                                                           Control o f Migration
                                                                           Social Communication
                                                                           Environmental Management o f
                                                                             Civil Works
                                                                           Independent Verification o f
                                                                            Reservoir Level
                                                                           Urban Lateral Bays
                                                                           Transfer o f Services to Local
                                                                            Governments
)611312004  1611512004 Posadas        A. van Trotsenburg, Country Director Management oversight, site visit,
                       Encamacion     J. Redwood, Sector Director          and review o f financing
                                      C. Brandon, Sector Leader            requirements for the draft PTY

~710512004 ~710912004 3uenos Aires, E. Sanchez-Triana, TTL                 Preparation for V RAN.
                       ?osadas,     R.GranC, Consulting Attorney (Baker
                       3ncamacion        & Mckenzie)
                                    D.Caminal, IDB
                                    B. Fonseca-Galindez, IDB
                                    R.Pinheiro, IDB
                                    C. Lopez-Ocaiia, IDB




                                                   13

           Box 3: L i s t of Bank Missions and Meetings, June 2004 -mid-September 2005 (cont.)

     Mission Dates            Places          Staff and Consultants who                Topics Covered
                              Visited                 Participated
0910912004 0911012004 Washington        A. van Trotsenburg, Country Director  Ministerial-level meetings with all
                                        J. Redwood, Sector Director           five project parties (GOA,GoP,
                                        C. Brandon, Sector Leader             EBY, IDB,WB), includingwith
                                        D.Gross, co-TTL                       relevant EDs, to discuss project
                                        E. SanchezTriana, co-TTL              completion
                                        JD Quintero, environmental specialist
                                        E.Correa, resettlement specialist
1010412004 1010512004 Buenos Aires D. Gross, TTL, anthropologist
                                                              .~              Updating o f PARR
                                        D.Caminal, IDB
                                        B.Fonseca, IDB
                                        S. Melgaqo, Resettlement Specialist,
                                        IDB
1211212004 1212112004 Posadas           D.Gross, TTL anthropologist           Trust Account
                          Encamaci6n    G. Sanchez, Civil Society Specialist  Management Structure
                          Buenos Aires 0.Nunes,Consultant, Resettlement       Social Communication;
                                          Specialist                          Claims Procedures
                                        D.Caminal, TTL, IDB                   Updating o fPARR
                                        M.Barros -IDB                         Meeting with Civil Society
                                        B. Fonseca-Galindez, Social           EnvironmentalManagement
                                          Specialist, IDB
                                        C. L6pez-Ocafia, IDB
                                        S. Melgaqo, Resettlement Specialist,
                                           IDB
0210112005 1210112005     4sunci6n      C. Brandon, Sector Leader             Meeting with both EBY
                                        P. Hansen, Resident Representative      Executive Directors and Vice
                                                                                Minister o f Finance on Bank
                                                                                decision to not allow water level
                                                                                rise.
3212005    1212005        3uenos Aires A. van Trotsenburg, Country Director   Meetings with Argentine EBY
                                        C. Brandon, Sector Leader               Executive Director and
                                                                                Argentine Sub-secretary o f
                                                                                Energyon Bank decision to not
                                                                                allow water level rise; and with
                                                                                Argentine Minister of Public
                                                                                Works and provincial and
                                                                                municipal leaders on project
                                                                                status.
1411112005                'osadas,      D. Gross, TTL anthropologist          Seminar on Rehabilitation
                          Zncarnacibn,  G. Sanchez, Civil Society Specialist  Meeting with Civil Society
                          3uenos Aires  J. Arboleda, Civil Society Specialist   Organizations
                                        D. Caminal, TTL, IDB                  Reservoir Level;
                                        B. Fonseca, Social Specialist, IDB    Buffer Zone;
                                        3. Melgaqo, Consultant                Water quality inUrban Bays
                                          Resettlement Specialist, IDB;       DamOperational Manual
                                                                              Expropriation of Inundated Lands
                                                                              Housing Construction
                                                                              Encamaci6nUrbanPlan
                                                                              Trust Fund
                                                                              Management Structure o f PTY
                                                                              Social Communication




                                                       14

            Box 3: List of BankMissionsand Meetings,June 2004 -mid-September2005 (cont.)

     MissionDates           Places          Staff and Consultantswho                Topics Covered
                           Visited                 Participated
06/14/2005  06/15/2005 BuenosAires C. Brandon, Sector Leader                Meetingswith Argentine and
                                       D.Caminal, TTL, IDB                 ParaguayanEBY Executive
                                                                           Directors,andwithArgentine
                                                                            Sub-secretary of Energyto

09/07/2005 0910812005   Asuncih      I A.                                 I reviewproject  status.
                                          vanTrotsenburg, Country Director Meetings withVice-president of
                                                                          I
                                       C. Brandon, Sector Leader            the Republic, Acting Exec.
                                                                           Directoro f EBY, EBYFinance
                                                                            Director; Minister andVice-
                                                                            Minister o f Social Action.



 47.     Intensive supervision will continue despite a decline in the Bank's influence to affect
 project implementation since the last loan's closing.          EBY has not followed the Bank's
 recommendations and proposals in several key areas related to resettlement, environmental
 impacts, and municipal planning, and has resisted the Bank's insistence on opening direct
 channels o f communication with civil society or establishing an independent grievance
 mechanism. In meetings with civil society organizations, the Bank has laid special stress on
 the fact that EBY and the relevant government authorities remain responsible for acting on the
 claims being made as a result o f the Project.


                            V CONCLUSIONSAND NEXT STEPS
                               -
 48.     In conclusion, the World Bank and IDB, together, have continued their intensive
 supervision o f the Yacyreth Project and have sought to implement the Management Action
 Plan approved by the Board in M a y 2004. Completing the project for EBY and the two
 governments remains a challenge, both interms o f meeting their 2008 deadline and o f fulfilling
 the social and environmental conditions embodied inthe World Bank Legal Agreements.

 49.     It bears reiteration that the Bank has relatively little leverage in the Project, since the
 last loan (Loan 3520-ARY Second Yacyreth Hydroelectric Project) is fully disbursed and
 closed. (It i s due to be repaid in full in November 2009.) The World Bank and IDB will
 remain engaged through intensive supervision on the full range o f sensitive issues at hand,
 although there are clear limits to what either can achieve in the absence o f greater
 responsiveness and collaboration on the part of EBY and other official stakeholders.
 Management remains committed to seeking workable solutions, and will continue reporting to
 the Board o f Directors on an annual basis.




                                                   15

                       .
                       8
                       ::
                       (D
                       ?
                       0
                       Q




                       s8
                       0


             r         8
                       0
                       P
             69

P
v)
3

                               t

   0 0 0 0
   0 0 0 0   IC
   90.99             ..
   0 0 0 0   c;-a
0 0. 9 9 0.
   0 0 0 0  2        8 2
v ) O N O W          Z R
> Z ; w B % N
            m-
                     - 0

                     Y O

            69


            .     ..
            m
                  .. Z R
                     8 2
            N
            0
            0

                     8 E
            r        0 0
                     m m


            m
            6
            r
            m


            A
            d
            P
            m
           a
           E




                                 h
                                 -8
                          Q      U
                         5
                         .-c     n
                                 Y

                         .-s      m
                          u)

                         -s
                         5
                         c



                         0

                         u)
                         B
                         c



                         5

      ANNEX I1 ANNOTATED MATRIX OF THE MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
                     -
                                         AND PROGRESSTO DATE

 The matrix that follows indicates the specific actions proposed by the Bank as part of its
 Management Response to the Inspection Panel's Investigation Report, and which were approved
 by the Board inM a y 2004, together with an indication of the progress achieved to date in their
 implementation.'

      Management'sAction PlaninRes                    0
             InspectionPanel's Finding

                                                 Environment-OD 4.01

 Resettlementsites and civil works (Items 3,8,9,40)




                    environmental condi


                      contractor insur
                     rovements, as ne




                                    prised o f its findings,




l5The left column is taken verbatim from the Management's Action Plan dated April 6, 2004. The Item numbers
given in each r o w refer to Items in Annex 1 o f the Management Report and Recommendations in response to the
Yacyreta Inspection Panel Investigation (May 6, 2004).
                                                            17

(Matrix con't.)
     Management'sAction PlaninResponse to
             InspectionPanel's Findings

growth, induced impacts a
(Item7)
   The Bank will continue to supervise compliance
   with the implementation o f the P M M A component




Reservoirlevel verification (Item 11)
e   Management will urge the Governments o f
    Argentina and Paraguay and EBY to establish a
    means for independent veri
    level. Bank staff will monitor this




                                                    18

(Matrix con't.)
       -
     Management'sAction PlaninRespon
           InspectionPanel's Findings          ate

Sewerage system(It
  Management will

  and the wastewater treatment
  other non-dam-related civil w
  community. In addition, the

  covered and the pr
  coverage     in EBY
  program.




  Management i s urging EBY




                                         19

 (Matrix con't.)
        -
     Management's Acti                                  Dat

                                       Social-OD4.30

 Social Communications Progra      18, 23,
 27,28,38,44)
 e




e
   dissemination o f information
   procedures to be used in

   the social commu

e




e
   communications     program




  procedures    for  the
  expropriated prior to rai




e




e




                                            20

(Matrix - con't.)

    Management'sActi
            InspectionP                                 e




0 Management will co
  component of the R


  underway).




  alternative    sites




                             quired  inApril 2005 to


  or fourth quarter o f 2
  discuss additional




  resettlementactivities.




                                   21

(Matrix-con't.)
     Manage
              I              ate


   The Bank will c




   by displacement.




  that could eme
  the resettlement




                       22

(Matrix - con't.)

    Management's Acti                                   Implementation

Brickmakers(Items




   have access to clay deposits on the land that EB
   owns untilthe reservoir level is raised.




                             e   2004 timeta




                                                   23

(Matrix - con't.)
    Management's Action
            InspectionPanel's Findings                     Im


  The Bank wi




  time as EBY has adequa
  acquire this land.




                                   Supervision-OD 13.05 -OPBP 13.05

Technical quality and expertise(Items 7,40,44)




                                                                       EBY contracted a
                                                                       aluations of its




  Aide Memoires




                                                24

(Matrix- con't.)
    Management'sAction PlaninRespons
             InspectionPanel'sFindings                 te
Level of supervision(Items 43'46)




                              report to the Board




                                                 25

