   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   THE INSPECTION PANEL                              1818 H Street, N.W.                 Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                     Washington, D.C. 20433              Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                     U.S.A.                              Email: ipanel@worldbank.org




     IPN REQUEST RQ02/1

                                                                                                   May 30, 2002


                                  NOTICE OF REGISTRATION


                                      Re: Request for Inspection
     PARAGUAY ­ Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications Sectors
      (Loan No. 3842 ­PA)1, ARGENTINA ­SEGBA V Power Distribution Project
                                        (Loan No. 2854 ­ AR)


        On May 17, 2002 the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection
   (the "Request")2 related to the above-referenced projects (the "Projects"). The Request was
   submitted by Federación de Afectados por Yacyretá de Itapúa y Misiones (FEDAYIM)3,
   a local nongovernmental organization on its behalf as well as of more than 4,000 families
   affected by social and environmental impacts of the Yacyretá Hydroelectric Dam, and six
   coordinators of affected people in the following districts: San Cosme y Damián, Distrito
   Cambyreta, Barrio Pacu Cúa, Barrio Sta. Rosa Mboy Caé, Arroyo Potiy, Ayolas, Barrio Santa
   Rosa (the "Requesters"). The Request also attaches letters to provide evidence that the
   Mayors and Municipal Councils of the City of Encarnación and the District of Cambyreta
   have endorsed the Request. There are a number of other documents attached to the Request
   as well.

        The Requesters claim to represent more than 4,000 families affected by the pending
   liabilities or "deudas pendientes" (an apparent reference to Yacyretá's Base and Pending
   Actions Programs4) which have their origin in the raising of the level of the reservoir of the
   Yacyretá hydropower plant to 76 meters above the sea level and, possibly, higher. According
   to the Request, because of inadequate project supervision by the Bank, these families were
   not appropriately identified and "quantified in their real dimensions" and, as a consequence,

1The original name of the Project was "Asunción Sewerage Project" and was changed by an Amendment to the
Loan Agreement dated January 27, 2000.
2The Requesters note that the same Request is being submitted to the independent inspection mechanism of the
Inter-American Development Bank.
3"The Federation [of People] of Itapúa and Misiones Affected by Yacyretá".
4These programs are defined and referred to in the legal documents related to loans financing the Second Yacyretá
Hydroelectric Project, including Loan 2854-AR.



                                                                                                               1

  thousands of them were excluded from existing compensation and mitigation programs in
  spite of the fact that they have owned and occupied lands affected by the dam for more than
  20 years. What follows is a summary description of their claims.

       First the Request cites, as an example, the case of 110 families represented by the
  Requesters who live in the district of Cambyreta on the banks of the Potiy Creek (Arroyo
  Potiy) who settled in the area around 1978 and "are now affected by floods every time that it
  rains." The Request also cites similar cases of families living on the banks of the following
  creeks: Mboy Caé, Santa Maria, and Yacu Paso (several photos attached to the Request
  illustrate this claim). The Request further claims that families for whom the creek flood
  control program was established, are being replaced by families from the neighborhoods of
  Pacu Cúa, Santa Rosa, Mboi Caé, Ita Paso and San Blas, who are in no way affected by the
  devastating situation being borne by those living on the creek banks for whom this program
  was created.

       The Request also states that these affected families are concerned that the program
  currently underway- for 700 homes in Ita Paso and 400 in Arroyo Porá - will end with no
  solutions having been found for many of the families afflicted by the situations described and
  shown in the photos provided, these families, according to the Requesters, are "enduring
  extreme conditions that are truly life threatening".

       The Request also complains about the environmental contamination and adverse health
  impacts caused by the elevation of the reservoir (which raised the water table and fouled
  latrines and contaminated drinking water wells). According to the Request, this situation was
  further aggravated by the housing developments built by Entidad Binacional Yacyretá (EBY)5
  in Buena Vista and San Pedro, where the wastewater spills into the Potiy, Santa María and
  Mboi Caé creeks, leaving them totally contaminated. This would be still further aggravated
  by the fact that the work planned to resolve the pollution problems will not meet its main
  objective, since, according to a document the Requesters hold, the planned Wastewater
  Treatment Plant will not benefit these neighborhoods built by EBY, nor others affected by the
  rise in the water table. As such, the Requesters believe, the chance to recover or clean up
  these streams will be lost for good, and numerous families will be condemned to live in a
  polluted environment.

       The Request claims that the reservoir has caused severe health problems. The reservoir,
  filled with stagnant, polluted water with sewage waste, is an ideal habitat for microorganisms
  that are vectors of serious disease, such as malaria, leishmaniasis, schistosomiasis, dengue
  fever and other diseases. Statistical data from the Ministry of Public Health and Social
  Welfare (Sanitation Region Seven) for the years 1990, 1992 and 1994, mentioned in the
  Request would show that diseases related to the reservoir's existence are among the main
  causes for doctor's visits, e.g., diarrhea, anemia, parasitic infection, skin diseases such as
  pyoderma and ectoparasites. According to the Request, since the reservoir was filled, people
  living in the area of influence have complained of a high incidence of fevers. The Requesters


5Yacyretá Binational Authority



                                                                                             2

allege that there have been no programs for monitoring and controlling disease-causing
microorganisms, and if this remains unresolved, it could lead to an alarming and catastrophic
health situation.

    The Requesters state that the Bank has failed in its duty to ensure that EBY provides
people with suitable compensation and resettlement stating that, as an example, the
compensation approved for the requesting families living in the Santa Rosa, Arroyo Pora and
Ita Paso neighborhoods "were negligible amounts that will in no way make it possible for the
families to buy new land and rebuild their homes." Similarly, they state, the Bank and EBY
have no plans to restore the families' productive infrastructure.

     Finally, the Request states that compensation and resettlement programs for brick-makers
benefited only the owners of productive units and left their workers unemployed and in a very
difficult economic condition.

     The Requesters' claim that the Bank's actions and omissions described in the Request
constitute violations of various provisions of the following Bank Policies and Procedures:

     OD 4.00, Annex B on Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects
    OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment
    OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
    OD/OP/BP 13.05 on Project Supervision
    OD 10.70 on Project Monitoring and Evaluation
    OD 13.40 on Suspension of Disbursements

     All communications with the Requesters in connection with the Request will, until
further notice, be sent to Dr. Angela Vergara de Miranda, FEDAIYM's President, at the
address listed below.

    In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures (the "Operating
Procedures"), I am notifying you that I have, on May 30, 2002, which is also the date of the
dispatch of this notice, registered this Request in the Inspection Panel Register.

    In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the
"Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel" (the "1999
Clarifications"), and paragraph 18 (d) of the Operating Procedures, Bank Management must
provide the Panel, no later than June 28, 2002, with written evidence that it has complied, or
intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies and procedures in relation to the above-
referenced Projects. The subject matter that Management must deal with in a response to the
Request is set out in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the 1999 Clarifications.

    After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 [of the Resolution] and




                                                                                          3

 shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be
 investigated."

     The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ02/1.


                                   Yours sincerely,




                                  Edward S. Ayensu
                                       Chairman



Dra. Angela Vergara de Miranda
Cerro Corá 269
Encarnación,
Paraguay

Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Room MC12-750

The Executive Directors and Alternates
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development




                                                                                       4

