OFFICIAL
DOCU MENTS
LOAN NUMBERV4 2 PA
Loan Agreement
(Asunci6n Sewerage Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Date l                                   , 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER  4   PA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      pWADo 1u               , 1995, between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (the Borrow") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Prcject described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
(B)   the  Borrower   intends  to  contract  from   European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to $20,000,000 to assist in the financing of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between The Borrower and EIB; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01, The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (1) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)   "BCP" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central
del Paraguay);
(b)   "CORPOSANA" means the Water and Sewerage Company
(Corporaci6n de Obras Sanitarias), a company owned by the Borrower;
(c)   "ER" means the Environmental     Report   prepared  by
CORPOSANA on April 15, 1994 with respect to the activities to be
carried out under the Project;
(d)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date
herewith from the Borrower and CORPOSANA to the Bank indicating the
matters to be discussed during the annual and mid-term reviews
referred to in Section 3.16 of this Agreement, and including as
annex thereto the operational and financial monitoring indicators
and the list of projects referred to in Sections 3.01(b) and 4.04
of this Agreement, respectively;
(e)   "Law No.244" means Ley No. 244 of the Borrower dated
October 26, 1954, published in the official gazette (Gazeta Oficial)
on December 31, 1954, which established CORPOSANA, including the
regulations to such law, as such law and regulations have been
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(M)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
a letter of agreement diited September 19, 1992, duly countersigned
by the Borrower on that same date;
(g)   "Second Yacyreta Hidroelectric    Project" means   the
Project described in the Loan Agreement entered into between the
Argentine Republic and the Bank on November 16, 1992;
(h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(i)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CORPOSANA pursuant to Section
3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of forty six million five hundred thousand Dollars
($46,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BCP on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments
out of, t'e Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of


﻿-4-
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
on the date immediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower s"aall pay interest accrued
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding


﻿-5-
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing.on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
in a calendar.year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The President of CORPOSANA (or such other person
or persons as such President shall appoint in writing) is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement (related to the withdrawal of
proceeds from the Loan Account and Special Account) and Article V of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause CORPOSANA to carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, public utility,
technical and environmental practices, shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
CORPOSANA to carry out the Project, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the
carrying out of the Project by CORPOSANA.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall


﻿-6-
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to carry out the
Project in accordance with the operational and financial monitoring
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter.
(c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
CORPOSANA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CORPOSANA, under terms and conditions,
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the
obligation of CORPOSANA to provide promptly as needed, all funds,
facilities, services and other resources required in carrying out
the Project, and those obligations and events pertaining to
CORPOSANA set forth in Sections 2.04, 2.05, 2.06, 2.07 and Articles
III, IV, V and VI of this Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause
CORPOSANA to:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for
the future operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with CORPOSANA on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices (as
mentioned in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement), taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.


﻿-7-
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by
CORPOSANA.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to, not
later than October 31, 1995, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
review and comments, the program referred to in Part A of the
Project which shall include as an annex an implementation timetable.
(b)   As a result of the review referred to in (a) above, the
Bank may require CORPOSANA to make adjustments to the program or the
implementation timetable mentioned in (a) above, or both. If so, the
Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to: (i) immediately thereafter
incorporate the Bank's comments; and (ii) not later than March 31,
1996, commence the implementation of the program referred to in Part
A of the Project in accordance with the implementation timetable.
(c)   The  Borrower   shall  implement   the  proposals   to
decentralize CORPOSANA's functions (as referred to in Part A (a) of
the Project) in accordance with the implementation timetable
referred to in (a) above.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to hire a
management firrg, acceptable to the Bank, in order to administer on
behalf of CORPOSANA the carrying out and the supervision of the
works under Pa'ts B and C of the Project.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA
to, not later than 60 days after June 30 and December 31 of each
year during Project implementation starting in December 1995,
prepare and furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request with respect
to the progress in the implementation of the Project during the
semester preceding the date of presentation of the report in
question as indicated herein.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to, not later
than September 30 of each year during Project implementation
starting in 1995, prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to: (a) the activities to be
carried out under the Project during the calendar year following the


﻿-8-
date of presentation of such plan; and (b) the financial projections
of CORPOSANA, including, inter alia, any proposal to increase its
water tariffs.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to
maintain and operate at all times during Project implementation, a
planning office with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to ensure that the
planning office mentioned in (a) above is operated at all times
during Project implementation by at least three qualified
professionals with experience in the area of water and sanitation,
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to, not
later than March 31, 1996, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
reviev and comments, a design of a new billing, collection and
client information system for CORPOSANA.
(b)   As a result of the review referred to in (a) above, the
Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to: (i) not later than July 31, 1996
prepare, on the basis of the Bank's comments thereon, if any, and
furnish to the Bank an action plan; and (ii) immediately thereafter
carry out such action plan.
(c)   In the event that the Bank has no comments to the new
design mentioned in (a) above, the Borrower shall cause CORPORSANA
to apply to its day-to-day operations such new design immediately
after the Bank has notified the Borrower of such event.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to: (i)
not later than July 31, 1995 carry out a margin cost study of
CORPOSANA's water and sewerage services; and (ii) not later than
September 30, 1995 jointly review with the Bank and the Borrower the
recommendations of such study.
(b)   The Borrower shall participate in the joint review of
the study referred to in (a) above.
(c)   As a result of the joint review referred to in (a)(ii)
above, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than October 31, 1995
prepare jointly with CORPORSANA, on the basis of the recommendations
of the study mentioned in (a)(i) above and the Bank's comments
thereon, if any, and furnish to the Bank an action plan to implement


﻿-9-
such recommendations (including an implementation timetable); and
(ii) immediately thereafter carry out, or cause CORPOSANA to carry
out, such action plan.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to implement
the environmental mitigatory measures referred to in the ER in a
manner and under terms satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to: (i)
not later than December 31, 1996 carry out a study of industrial
wastes; and (ii) not later than March 31, 1997 furnish to the Bank,
for its review and comments, the recommendations of the study
referred to in (a) herein.
(b)   As a result of the review referred to in (a)(ii) above,
the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to: (i) not later than June 30,
1997 prepare, on the basis of the recommendations of the study
mentioned in (a)(i) above and the Bank's comments thereon, if any,
and furnish to the Bank an action plan (including an implementation
timetable); and (ii) immediately thereafter carry out such action
plan.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to: (a) not
later than December 31, 1995, complete the design of the program
referred to in Part B.7 of the Project in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank; and (b) immediately thereafter commence the implementation
of the program mentioned in (a) herein.
Section 3.15. In the event that one of the recommendations of
the study mentioned in Section 3.11 (a) (i) of this Agreement is to
increase CORPOSANA's water tariff rates for the calendar years 1995
through 1999 (both inclusive) based on the marginal costs of the
water and sewerage services provided by CORPOSAR1 to the users of
such services, and such recommendation is not implemented or its
partially implemented during those years, the Borrower shall
authorize and cause CORPOSANA to increase its water tariff rates for
the year or years (as the case may be) in which the recommendation
mentioned herein has not been implemented or has been partially
implemented. Such increase shall be not less than 5% over the
official inflation rate for the previous year, as such inflation
rate is published by the BCP at the end of such year.
Section 3.16. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause CORPOSANA to, review jointly with the Bank by not later


﻿- 10 -
than October 31 of each year during Project implementation, starting
in 1995, the progress made by CORPOSANA in: (i) carrying out the
Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives of the Project. Such
review shall focus, inter alia, on discussing the topics referred to
in the Implementation Letter and on analyzing the progress reports
and the plan of action (for the year in question) referred to in
Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of this Agreement, respectively. As part of
each such review the Bank may require that the Borrower prepare an
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in
Project implementation. In the event that the Bank requires the
Borrower to prepare an action plan, the Borrower shall cause
CORPOSANA to prepare and furnish such action plan to the Bank not
later than thirty days after the conclusion of the review in
question and shall thereafter carry out, or cause CORPSANA to carry
out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
(b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause CORPOSANA to,
participate in a Project implementation mid-term review to be held
with the Bank as part of the annual review to be held not later than
October 31, 1998. During such mid-term review, attention shall be
focussed  particularly   on  the  topics   referred  to  in   the
Implementation Letter with respect to the mid-term review and on
analyzing the reports and the action plan (for the year in question)
referred to in Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of this Agreement,
respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The* Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of
CORPOSANA.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to:
(i)   have  its   records,  accounts  and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) and the
records and accounts for the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;


﻿- 11 -
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited;
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Bank    such  other  information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to:
(i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of the Special Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts  are
included in the annual audit referred to -in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditures submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with  the   procedures  and  internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to earn, for each of its fiscal
years starting in its 1999 fiscal year, an annual return of not less


﻿12 -
than 7% of the average current net value of CORPOSANA's fixed assets
in operation.
(b)   Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA, on the basis of forecasts prepared
by CORPOSANA and satisfactory to the Bank, to review whether it
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall cause
CORPOSANA to furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its
completion.
(c)   If any such review shows that CORPOSANA would not meet
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for CORPOSANA's fiscal
years covered by such review, the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its water tariffs) in
order to meet such requirements.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
CORPOSANA's net operating income for the fiscal
year in question by one half of the sum of the
current net value of CORPOSANA's fixed assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of that
fiscal year.
(ii)   The term "net operating income" means total
operating revenues less total operating expenses.
(iii)   The  term   "total  operating  revenues"   means
revenues from all sources related to operations.
(iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses   related  to   operations,   including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate
of not less than 3% per annum of the average
current gross value of CORPOSANA's fixed assets
in operation, or other basis acceptable to the
Bank, but excluding interest and other charges on
debt.


﻿- 13 -
(v)   The average current gross value of CORPOSANA's
fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as
one half of the sum of the gross value of
CORPOSANA's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as
valued from time to time in accordance with sound
and consistently maintained methods of valuation
satisfactory to the Bank.
(vi)   The term "current net value of CORPOSANA's fixed
assets in operation" means the gross value of
CORPOSANA's fixed assets in operation less the
amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued
from time to time in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
beginning in the year 1996, the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA not
to incur in any debt, unless the net revenues of CORPOSANA for the
fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for
a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.4 times
the estimated maximum debt service requirements of CORPOSANA for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt of CORPOSANA, including the debt
to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   The  term  "debt" means   any  indebtedness  of
CORPOSANA maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into.


﻿- 14 -
(iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A)   the sum  of revenues from all     sources
related to operations adjusted to take
account of CORPOSANA's water tariffs in
effect at the time of the incurrence of
debt even though they were not in effect
during the twelve-month period to which
such revenues relate and net non-operating
income; and
(B)   the  sum  of  all   expenses  related  to
operations    including   administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on
debt.
(iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above.
(v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 15 -
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA not to carry out any major expansion
project other than those projects listed in the Implementation
Letter.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to, not later
than December 31, 1996, initiate collection procedures with respect
to all its account receivables related to water and sewerage
services which are more than 90 days overdue.
Section 4.06. The Bprrower shall not later than September 30,
1995 enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with
CORPOSANA with respect to the procedures to be followed by the
Borrower in connection with the payment of water and sewerage
services provided by CORPOSANA to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank, for insurance
against such risks and such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, public
utility, technical and environmental practices under the supervisioI
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers; and
(c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from to time, promptly
as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering, financial, public utility,
technical and environmental practices.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   CORPOSANA shall have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or shall have
assigned, amended, abrogated or waived such agreement or any
provision thereof;
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that CORPOSANA will be able to
perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   Law No. 244 or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability
of CORPOSANA to carry out the Project;
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CORPOSANA or for the suspension of its operations;
(e)   The EIB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower or CORPOSANA from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with   the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement; and
(f)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the EIB Loan or the right of
the Borrower or CORPOSANA as the case may
be, to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or
grant made to the Borrower or CORPOSANA for
the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in


﻿- 17 -
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
thereof; or
(B)   the EIB Loan or any such loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower or CORPOSANA, as the case
may be, establish to the satisfaction of the Bank
that:
(A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower or CORPOSANA, as the case
may be, to perform any of its obligations
under the EIB Loan Agreement or any such
loan or grant agreement; and
(B)   adequate  funds  for   the  Project   are
available to the Borrower or CORPOSANA from
other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   the events specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CORPOSANA;
(b)   CORPOSANA has initiated the selection process to hire
the consultants required to assist CORPOSANA in the carrying out of
Part A of the Project;
(c)   CORPOSANA has initiated the selection process to hire
the management firm referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(d)   CORPOSANA has increased its water tariffs by at least 5%
over the official inflation rate of 1994, as published by BCP at the
end of such year;
(e)   the Borrower shall have: (i) converted an amount of
approximately $8,000,000 equivalent of CORPOSANA's outstanding debt
with the Borrower into a long-term loan from the Borrower to
CORPOSANA under terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) set-off any remaining debt balance of CORPOSANA's outstanding
debt to the Borrower against an equal amount of the Borrower' s
outstanding debt to CORPOSANA; and
(f)   the Borrower and CORPOSANA have agreed to a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Bank, which will result in the
settlement of the arrears incurred by CORPOSANA in connection with
its external debt.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CORPOSANA
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CORPOSANA in accordance
with its terms.


﻿- 19 -
Section 7.03. The date   M16          1           is hereby
specified  for the purposes of SWction      12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of *this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Chile 128
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Cable address:                      Telex:
Ministerio de                   44329
Hacienda
Asunci6n, Paraguay
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA)
Washington,.D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Ab"7 Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocatid          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works              39,900,000        45%
(2) Equipment and             1,800,000        100% of foreign
Materials                                  expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and
45% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants'              3,200,000        100%
services
(4) Training                    850,000        100%
(5) Refunding of                750,000        Amounts due
Project                                    pursuant to
Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
TOTAL                46,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;


﻿- 22 -
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "Training" means expenditures incurred by
CORPOSANA in connection with the training of its personnel under
Parts A and B of the Project, acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures
under contracts for: (a) goods and works estimated to cost less than
$200,000 and $2,000,000 equivalent respectively; and (b) training,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower
to improve the provision of urban water and sewerage services within
the Borrower's territory, through: (i) the decentralization of
CORPOSANA's functions as a provider of water and sewerage services;
(ii) the participation of the municipalities within the Borrower's
territory in the provision of water and sewerage services; (iii) the
participation of the private sector in the provision of water and
sewerage services; and (iv) the reform of CORPOSANA's institutional
structure; (b) to improve the health conditions and the quality of
life of about 250,000 inhabitants in the city of Asunci6n, through:
(i) the expansion of the sewerage system; and (ii) the mitigation of
the environmental impact of the sewage disposal in the Paraguay
river; and (c) to improve the living conditions of about 3,000
inhabitants in the city of Encarnaci6n through the construction of
infrastructure works.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upcn
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Development
Carry out an institutional development program which consists,
inter alia, of: (a) the development of proposals to decentralize the
functions of CORPOSANA, including, inter alia, a proposal to
transfer the responsibility of providing water and sewerage services
to the municipalities; (b) the design of modalities for the
participation of the private sector in the provision of water and
sewerage services; (c) the restructuring and strengthening of
CORPOSANA's institutional capacity; and (d) training to CORPOSANA's
personnel in order to implement the program referred to herein.
Part B:     Expansion of the Sewerage System in Asunci6n
1.    Installation of about 50,000 house connections in the areas
of Fernando de la Mora Sur y Norte, Cuenca Avai, Madame Lynch,
Primer Presidente and Luque.
2.    Construction of about 550 kilometers of secondary sewage
collectors, including the installation of the equipment required


﻿- 24 -
therefor, in the areas of Santa Teresa, Laguna Grande and the areas
referred to in Part B.1 above.
3.    Construction of about 24 kilometers of sewage interceptors of
about 2 meters diameter, including the installation of the equipment
required theref or, in the areas referred to in Part B.1 above.
4.    Construction of a tunnel of about 3.2 kilometers of about 2
meters diameter in the area of Asunci6n.
5.    Construction of a preliminary treatment facility, including:
(a) the installation of an automatic screening device to such
facility in order to remove floating coarse materials; and (b) the
construction of an outfall to the center of the Paraguay river.
6.    Rehabilitation and expansion of the sewage outfalls of
Tacumbu', Sajonia and Lagerenza.
7.    Design: (a) a program to control and monitor the sewage
disposal into the Paraguay river (including the acquisition and
utilization of the equipment required therefor); and (b) a
monitoring system to control hazardous and toxic chemicals from
potential industrial wastes.
8.    Provision of technical assistance to CORPOSANA in order to
carry out the supervision of the works referred to in Parts B.1
through B.6 above (including the training of CORPOSANA's personnel
required therefor) and Part C below.
Part C:     Civil Works in Encarnaci6n
Construction of infrastructure works, including, inter alia:
(a) a water supply and sewage disposal; (b) roads; (c) storm water
drainage and solid wastes disposal facilities; and (d) a power
distribution system, for the benefit of about 3,000 people to be
resettled under the Second Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in Dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 2000              1,940,000
through   June 15, 2011
and On December 15, 2011                   1,880,000
*     The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
(a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete the
evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the
contract. The bid validity period may be extended a second time only
if the bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide
for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in
the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension.
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in
the bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to
the Bank's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part
D.2(a) of this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required
for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to use the relevant
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall cause
CORPOSANA to use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Bidders for works under this Part A estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more shall be prequalified as provided
in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 28 -
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more and $2,000,000 or more, respectively.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Paraguay may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $400,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded. on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
2.    Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$2,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive  bidding,   advertised  locally   in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three foreign suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿- 29 -
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works to be
awarded under Parts A, C.1 and C.2 of this Section, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:     Standard bidding documents for Competitive Bidding
Advertised Locally
All procurement of goods and works to be awarded under the
procedure set forth in Parts C.1 and C.2 of this Section shall be
carried out using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist CORPOSANA in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory


﻿- 30 -
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall cause CORPOSANA to employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall cause
CORPOSANA to use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of
goods and works referred to in Parts A, C.1 and C.2 of Section I of
this Schedule, except that the principle and rule of procurement
referred to in paragraph 3 below shall not apply to the procurement
of goods and works referred to in Part A of Section I of this
Schedule:
1.    Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids,
be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local
bidders.
2.    The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.
3.    Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in competitive
bidding advertised locally.
4.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with
local authorities as a prerequisite for bidding, except that, under
the procurement procedures set forth in Parts C.1 and C.2 of Section
I of this Schedule, foreign bidders may be required as a
prerequisite for bidding, to be registered with local authorities,
provided, however, that the information to be requested by the
Borrower or CORPOSANA, as the case may be, to such bidders is of
such nature that it will not discourage their participation.
5.    Contract prices for goods and works may be adjusted even if
such prices have increased by less than 15% of the bid price.
6.    There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be
submitted in order for a contract to be subsequently awarded.


﻿- 31 -
7.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their
bidding documents with Paraguayan authorities as a prerequisite of
bidding.
8.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire local personnel,
except for unskilled personnel.
B.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following
principles and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of
this Schedule:
1.    Foreign   consultants  shall   not,  as   a  condition   for
participating in the selection process, be required to enter into
a joint venture agreement with local consultants.
2.    Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in
a short list on the basis of evaluation criteria and terms of
reference, both satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their
proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with
Paraguayan authorities as a prerequisite for participating in the
selection procedure.
4.    The prices of contracts over one year duration may be
adjusted.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents


﻿- 33 -
and   other   evidence  required   pursuant   to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
BEnk, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account; or
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or


﻿-34-
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTI6N AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
/ tR SECRETAWY


