CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1147 KE
Project Agreement
(Gitaru Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE EAST AFRICAN POWER AND LIGHTING
COMPANY LIMITED
DATED JULY 25, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1147 KE
Project Agreement
(Gitaru Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE EAST AFRICAN POWER AND LIGHTING
COMPANY LIMITED
DATED JULY 25, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and THE EAST AFRICAN POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED
(hereinafter called EAP&L).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Tana River Development Company Limited (hereinafter called the Borrower),
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty-three million dollars ($63,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that EAP&L
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS EAP&L, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
.         set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part D of the Project
Section 2.01 The proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part D of the Project
shall be made available to EAP&L by the Borrower.
Section 2.02. (a) EAP&L shall within six months of the date of this
Agreement (or such other date as may be agreed between the Bank and EAP&L)
employ management consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in order to carry out
a review of the management structure of EAP&L under Part D of the Project.


﻿4
(b)   EAP&L shall, in consultation with the Bank, carry out a review of
the tariff structure of EAP&L under Part D of the Project.
(c)   The recommendations arising from the studies referred to in paragraphs
(a) and (b) of this Section 2.02 shall be jointly examined by the Bank and EAP&L,
and all such recommendations as are mutually acceptable shall be implemented
by EAP&L, subject in the case of the tariff study to the provisions of the Electric
Power Act.
Section 2.03 (a) EAP&L shall maintain records, and shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request, concerning Part D of
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan allocated thereto and
the services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)   EAP&L shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation,
all reports and other material documents pertaining to Part D of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(c)   EAP&L shall promptly inform    the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part D of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by EAP&L
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.04. EAP&L shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of EAP&L
and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE IlII
Management and Operation
of EAP&L
Section 3.01. EAP&L shall at all times: (a) manage its affairs, plan the
development of its properties and facilities, and maintain its financial position,
and (b) cause its plant, equipment, properties and facilities to be maintained and
all necessary renewals and repairs thereto to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate public utility, engineering, financial and business principles and practices
and under the supervision of competent management.
Section 3.02. EAP&L shall notify the Bank of any proposed appointment
to the positions of chief coordinating engineer and chief accountant in EAP&L


﻿5
sufficiently in advance of any such appointment for the Bank to have an adequate
opportunity to comment on the suitability of the person EAP&L is considering
for such appointment, and shall make any such appointment only after
consideration of the views expressed by the Bank.
Section 3.03. EAP&L shall continue to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate public
utility practices.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EAP&L shall not
sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be required
for the efficient carrying on of its business and undertakings or for the Project.
Section 3.05. The Management Agreement shall be modified in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank so as to oblige EAP&L to make available to the Borrower
comprehensive management services pertaining to the facilities to be constructed
under the Project.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, (a) EAP&L shall
not amend its Memorandum     or Articles of Association in any material respect;
and (b) EAP&L shall at all times maintain its corporate existence and right to
conduct its operations and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges, licences, concessions and franchises which are
necessary in the conduct of such operations.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EAP&L shall
take all necessary steps within its power (including but not limited to adjustments
to its tariffs for electrical energy) as shall be required to provide EAP&L with
net operating income to yield a rate of return on the value of its net fixed assets
of not less than 8-1/2% per annum.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section 4.01:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
net operating income of EAP&L for the year in question to
the average of the value of the net fixed assets of EAP&L at
the beginning and at the end of that year.


﻿6
(ii)        The term   "value of the net fixed assets" shall mean the gross
book value of fixed assets used for electric utility operations,
including any buildings primarily used as offices for electric
utility operations and also including work in progress, less the
amount of accumulated deprecia2; on thereon computed under
Section 47(l)(d)(ii) of the Electri' ,  -r Act and any amounts
contributed by customers for assets in operation, such gross book
value of fixed assets used for electric utility operations and
accumulated depreciation applicable thereto to be revalued
annually after EAP&L's financial year 1975 on the basis of a
price index system satisfactory to the Bank and EAP&L, which
shall take into account the fluctuations in the replacement values
of these assets as well as the fluctuations in the value of Kenya
currency.
(iii)       The term   "net operating income" shall mean the difference
between:
(A)   gross revenues from  electric utility operations including
rents from buildings primarily used as offices for electric
utility operations and excluding interest on investments
and other income applicable to operations or activities
which are not electric utility in character; and
(B)   the  expenses   related  to  electric  utility  operations
including:
(1)   operation, maintenance, purchased      power and
administration expenses;
(2)   the costs of experimental and general research work
for the electric utility industry and of preliminary
surveys, plans and investigations of utility projects
which do not prove to be feasible and are
abandoned;
(3)   taxes, including   income   taxes related  to  net
operating income; and
(4)   the allowance for depreciation, at rates prescribed
or approved under Section 47(1)(d)(ii) of the


﻿7
Electric Power Act, applied to the gross book value
of fixed assets as revalued pursuant to paragraph
(b)(ii) of this Section 4.01.
(iv)        Interest and other charges on debt are not to be deducted as
expenses under paragraph (b)(iii)(B) of this Section 4.01, but
the amount of such charges related to electric utility operations
shall be taken into account in calculating the amount of "income
taxes related to net operating income" under such paragraph.
(v)         if the   Guarantor makes payment to        EAP&L    for rural
electrification projects, then any such payments to:
(A)   cover all or part of the capital cost of such projects shall
be considered "amounts contributed by customers" under
paragraph (b)(ii) of this Section 4.01; and
(B)   indemnify operating losses shall be considered part of
gross revenues" tinder paragraph (b)(iii)(A) of this
Section 4.01 . For the purposes of this subparagraph the
term "operating losses" means amounts by which the
expenses of operating such projects, including the allocable
costs of generation, transmission and administration as
well  as direct   costs  of operation, and    excluding
depreciation which is not charged on amounts contributed
by customers, exceed the revenues collected from
customers served by such projects.
Section 4.02. (a) EAP&L shall pay to the Borrower as part of the cost at
which EAP&L purchases electrical energy from the Borrower a surcharge, which
shall be payable in amounts to be determined each year, so that the net operating
income of the Borrower (taken together with the net operating income of KPC
for the purpose of calculating the annual rate of return of the Borrower and KPC
under paragraph (b) hereof) shall yield each year an annual rate of return on the
net fixed assets of the Borrower and KPC taken together which shall be
approximately equal to that earned in such year by EAP&L.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section 4.02, the annual rate of return of
the Borrower and KPC shall be calculated by relating the combined net operating
income of the Borrower and KPC for the year in question to the average of the
value of the combined net fixed assets of the Borrower and KPC at the beginning


﻿8
and the end of that year. Subparagraphs (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of Section 4.01(b)
of this Agreement shall be applicable for the purposes hereof.
Section 4.03 (a) EAP&L shall continue to maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction of its obligations under paragraph (a)
of this Section, EAP&L shall continue to prepare and maintain its accounts on
a depreciation accounting basis.
(c)   EAP&L    shall prepare pro forma statements combining EAP&L's
financial statements with those of the Borrower and KPC which pro forna
statements shall: (i) exclude intercompany payments or items not affecting the
consolidated net income or equity capital of EAP&L, the Borrower and KPC; but
(ii) identify the portion of said net income and equity capital allocable to EAP&L,
the Borrower and KPC.
(d)   EAP&L shall: (i) have its individual accounts and its individual and
combined financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses,
statements of sources and application of funds and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than five months after the
end of each such year (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank such other information concerning the said accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EAP&L shall not
incur any debt unless the consolidated net revenue of the Power Companies for
the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence, or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall not be less than 1.5 times the maximum consolidated debt service
requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all the debt of the Power Companies
including the debt to be incurred; provided, however, that if this requirement is
not met for a debt proposed to be incurred for a project which has a construction
period of four years or longer from the incurrence of the debt to the expected
completion date, then EAP&L will consult the Bank before incurring any such


﻿9
debt and if a reasonable forecast shows that when the project is completed and
in operation the consolidated net revenue of the Power Companies would be
sufficient to meet this requirement, then the Bank will agree to the incurrence
of such debt. For the purpose of this Section:
(a)   the term "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed or guaranteed
by the Power Companies, except intercompany debt and debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less than
one year after the incurrence thereof;
(b)   the term "incur" with reference to any debt includes any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on
the date on which a contract or loan agreement or guarantee agreement is executed;
(c)   the term  "consolidated net revenue" means the consolidated gross
revenue adjusted to take account of tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence
of debt even though they were not in effect during the entire fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenue relates, less consolidated operating,
maintenance and administration expenses and taxes, if any, but before provision
for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt and excluding for the
purposes of this paragraph intercompany revenues and expenses: and
(d)   the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
Section 4.05. To assist in the financing of the Project, EAP&L shall make
a loan to the Borrower upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank in
an aggregate principal amount of not less than forty million Kenya Shillings
(KSh40,000,000).
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02 (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
EAP&L thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿10
(i)        the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with it terms; or
(ii)       a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before
the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly
notify EAP&L of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For EAP&L:
The Secretary
The East African Power and
Lighting Company limited
P.O. Box 30099
Nairobi
Kenya


﻿11
Cable address:
ELECTRIC
Nairobi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and -ny
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of EAP&L may be taken or executed by the Chief Executive or such other person
or persons as EAP&L shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. EAP&L shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person Ur persons who
will, on behalf of EAP&L, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by EAP&L pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
THE EAST AFRICAN POWER AND
LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ Bernard Adundo
Authorized Representative


