CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1147 KE
Loan Agreement
(Gitaru Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
TANA RIVER DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED
DATED JULY 25, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1147 KE
Loan Agreement
(Gitaru Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
TANA RIVER DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED
DATED JULY 25, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and TANA RIVER DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Bdrrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided,
(B)   The Borrower intends to contract from The East African Power and
Lighting Company Limited (hereinafter called EAP&L) a loan (hereinafter called
the EAP&L Loan) in an amount of ftrty million Kenya Shillings (KSh40,000,00)
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (hereinafter called ihe EAP&L Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and EAP&L;
(C)   The Borrower has received assurances that credit financing will be made
available to the Borrower by sdppliers or export credit institutions to pay for
*       turbines, generators, gates, screens, transmission lines, substations and transformers
for the Project, in an amount of about twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000)
equivalent;
(D)   Part D of the Project will be carried out by EAP&L;
(E)   The Republic of Kenya (hereinafter called the Guarantor) has agreed
to subscribe for additional share capital of the Borrower, for the purposes of the
Project, in an amount of not less than one hundred twenty million Kenya Shillings
(KShl 20,000,000), and provide an additional amount to the Borrower as a
long-term loan, in an amount of not less than seventy million Kenya Shillings
(KSh7O,000,000), or to make other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the
provision to the Borrower of the amounts aforesaid (said amounts aforesaid are
hereinafter referred to as the Government Commitment);
(F)   The Guarantor has agreed, inter alia, to guarantee all of the obligations
of the Borrower under this Loan Agreement, and of EAP&L inder a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and EAP&L, in accordance
with the terms and conditions of a guarantee agreement of even date herewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
hereinafter and in the said project agreement;


﻿4
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "EAP&L" means The East African Power and Lighting Company
Limited, a limited liability company established and operating under the laws of
the Guarantor;
(b)   "KPC" means The Kenya Power Company Limited, a limited liability
company established and operating under the laws of the Guarantor;
(c)   "Principal Trust Deed" means the trust deed dated May 26, 1966
between the Borrower and Phoenix Assurance Company Limited, as Trustee, as
modified by a First Supplemental Trust Deed dated December 5, 1968, securing
at the date of this Agreement Debenture Stock in a principal amount of (i) three
million four hundred ninety one thousand seven hundred fifty eight pounds in
the currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and
(ii) eighteen million four hundred thirty four thousand three hundred thirty seven
Kenya Shillings;
(d)   "Second Supplemental Trust Deed" means the trust deed dated
December 16, 1971 between the Borrower, Phoenix Assurance Company Limited,
as Trustee, EAP&L, the Bank and the beneficiaries of the Principal Trust Deed,
securing at the date of this Agreement (i) a loan by the Bank to the Borrower
in a principal amount of twenty-three million dollars ($23,000,000), and any bonds
issued to secure such loan and (ii) a loan by EAP&L to the Borrower in a principal
amount of eighty-one million three hundred thousand Kenya Shillings, and any
9% E (Additional) Debenture Stock 1975/1996 of the Borrower issued to secure
such loan;
(e)   "Third Supplemental Trust Deed" means the deed or deeds and other
instruments which shall be executed by the Borrower in accordance with the


﻿5
provisions of Section 7.01 of this Agreement in order to modify and extend the
security constituted by the Principal Trust Deed and the Second Supplemental
Trust Deed;
(f)   "Trust Deed" means the Principal Trust Deed as modified and extended
by the First, Second and Third Supplemental Trust Deeds and shall, unless the
context otherwise requires, include each deed and other instrument included in
the First, Second and Third Supplemental Trust Deeds and any deed or deeds
supplemental to the Principal Trust Deed as so modified and extended which shall
be executed and delivered in accordance with the provisions thereof;
(g)   "Bulk Supply Licence" means the licence granted to the Borrower
under the Electric Power Act (Cap. 314) of Kenya, namely, Bulk Supply Licence
(No. 3) dated July 7, 1965, as amended or varied from time to time;
(h)   "Bulk Supply Agreement" means the Seven Forks Bulk Supply
Agreement between the Borrower and EAP&L dated July 8, 1965 providing for
the supply by the Borrower to EAP&L of electrical energy in bulk, as amended,
supplemented or varied from time to time;
(i)   "Management Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower
and EAP&L dated August 12, 1971, providing for the management by EAP&L
of the Borrower's operations, as amended, supplemented or varied from time to
time:
(j)   "Water Permit" means any permit as defined in the Water Act (Cap.
372 of the laws of Kenya) issued to the Borrower for the purposes of the Project;
(k)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
EAP&L of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(1)   "subsidiary" means a subsidiary as defined in the Companies Act (Cap.
486) of Kenya;
(n)   "Power Companies" means EAP&L, the Borrower, KPC and any other
entity (whether incorporated or unincorporated) engaged in the generation,
importation, supply, transmission or distribution of electrical energy for sale to
the general public in Kenya excluding any such entity whose engagement as
aforesaid is only incidental to its principal activities; and
(n)   "Electric Power Act" means the Electric Power Act (Cap. 314 of the
laws of Kenya), as the same may be amended from time to time.


﻿6
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to sixty-three million dollars ($63,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b)  On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment dates specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay,
on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on
or before the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule I to
this Agreement, as such schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate public
utility, engineering and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   The proceeds of the Loan allocatt,d to Part D of the Project shall
be made available by the Borrower to EAP&I..
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall continue to employ engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank in order to assist the Borrower in the preparation
of plans, specifications and bidding documents for, and in the supervision of the
construction of, Parts A, B and C of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for Parts A, B and C of the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Parts A, B and C of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall. without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to


﻿8
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The, Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included
in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect (f land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times: (a) manage its affairs, plan
the development of its properties and facilities, and maintain its financial position,
and (b) cause its plant, equipment, properties and f Jlities to be maintained and
all necessary renewals and repairs thereto to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate public utility, engineering, financial and business principles and practices
and under the supervision of competent management.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall continue to take out and maintain with
responsible insurers or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate public
utility practices.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be required
for the efficient carrying on of its business and undertakings or for the Project.
Section 4.04. The Management Agreement shall be modified in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank so as to oblige EAP&L to make available to the Borrower
comprehensive management services for the facilities to be constructed under the
Project.


﻿9
Section 4.05. After completion of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
inspection of the dams, waterways, earthworks and reservoir banks included in
the Project to be carried out from time to time in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies or potential
deficiencies in the condition of such structures and earthworks, or in the quality
and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of such structures and
earthworks which may endanger public safety.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, (a) the Borrower
shall not without the prior agreement of the Bank amend its Memorandum          or
Articles of Association in any material respect; and (b) the Borrower shall at all
times maintain its corporate existence and right to conduct its operations and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges,
licences, concessions and franchises which are necessary or desirable in the conduct
of such operations.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall continue to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Without limitation or restriction of its obligations under the foregoing
provisions of this Section, the Borrower shall continue to prepare and maintain
a set of accounts on a depreciation accounting basis which shall provide for the
allowance for depreciation prescribed or approved under Section 47(l)(d)(ii) of
the Electric Power Act.
(c)   The Borrower shall prepare financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses, statements of sources and application of funds
and related statements) for each fiscal year on a depreciation accounting basis,
as aforesaid, and the Borrower shall prepare pro form1a statements combining
financial statements of the Borrower and KPC as so prepared and make such pro
forma statements available to EAP&L for the purposes set forth in Section 4.03(c)
of the Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall: (i) have its individual accounts and its individual
and combined financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses, statements of sources and application of funds and related statements)


﻿10
as prepared and maintained    under the foregoing provisions of this Section for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than five months
after the end of each such year (A) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (iii)
furnish to th*e Bank such other information concerning the said accounts and
financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not incur any debt unless the consolidated net revenue of the Power Companies
for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall not be less than 1.5 times the maximum consolidated debt service
requirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all the debt of the Power Companies
including the debt to be incurred; provided, however, that if this requirement is
not met for a debt proposed to be incurred for a project which has a construction
period of four years or longer from the date of incurrence of the debt to the
expected completion date, then the Borrower will consult the Bank before incurring
any such debt and if a reasonable forecast shows that when the project is completed
and in operation the consolidated net revenue of the Power Companies would be
sufficient to meet this requirement, then the Bank will agree to the incurrence
of such debt. For the purpose of this Section:
(a)   the term "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed or guaranteed
by the Power Companies, except intercompany debt and debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less than
one year after the incurrence thereof;
(b)   the term "incur" with reference to any debt includes any modification
of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on
the date on which a contract or loan agreement or guarantec agreement is executed;
(c)   the term  "consolidated net revenue" means the consolidated gross
revenue adjusted to take account of tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence
of debt even though they were not in effect during the entire fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenue relates, less consolidated operating,
maintenance and administration expenses and taxes, if any, but before provision
for depreciation and interest and other charges on debt and excluding for the
purposes of this paragraph intercompany revenue and exlpenses; and


﻿11
(d)   the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
Section 5.03. The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt except as provided
in the Trust Deed.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any lien upon any of its properties
or assets, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, unless such lien shall rank
after the lien constituted by the Trust Deed; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this Section shall not apply to:
(i)         the mortgage and charge of the Trust Deed in respect of
debenture stock or bonds issued or to be issued in accordance
with the provisions thereof, and
(ii)        any lien permitted by Clause 12 of the Principal Trust Deed
as that Deed stands on the date of this Agreement.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall not consent to any action taken at any
meeting of bondholders or by written instrument pursuant to the provisions of
the Trust Deed which would change the terms of any bonds issued to secure Bank
financing or adversely affect the holders thereof or the Bank unless the Bank shall
have expressed in writing its prior approval of such action or such consent.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall duly perform all obligations to be performed
by it under the Trust Deed, as the same may be varied by agreement of the parties
thereto.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The security constituted by the Trust Deed shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   The Electric Power Act, the Bulk Supply License, any Water Permit,
the Bulk Supply Agreement or the Management Agreement shall, as the case may


﻿12
be, have been repealed, amended, suspended, varied, waived or assigned so as to
affect adversely the carrying out of the Project or the obligations of the parties
under this Agreement or the Project Agreement;
(c)   EAP&L shall have failed to perform   any covenant, agreement or
obligation of EAP&L under the Project Agreement;
(d)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that EAP&L will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(e)   The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EAP&L or for the
suspension of its operations;
(f)   The right of the Borrower to receive all or any part of the EAP&L
Loan or the credit financing referred to in paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this
Agreement or the Government Commitment shall have been suspended or
terminated and the Borrower shall not have made arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank for the provision of financing for the Project in substitution for the financing
so terminated or suspended; and
(g)   Any part of the EAP&L Loan or the credit financing referred to in
paragraph (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement shall have been declared due
and payable prior to its agreed date of maturity.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower, EAP&L and the Guarantor; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (e) or (g) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:


﻿13
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
EAP&L have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the EAP&L Loan Agreement on behalf
of EAP&L and the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(c)   That a generation station licence has been issued under the Electric
Power Act in respect of the Project;
(d)   All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the credit financing
referred to in Recital (C) to this Agreement, other than (if applicable) the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been satisfied, or other arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, have been made for the provision of financing for the
equipment covered thereby;
(e)   Arrangements satisfactory to the Bank have been entered into between
the Guarantor and the Borrower to evidence the Government Commitment;
be(f)         That a modified Management Agreement satisfactory to the Bank has
been conClUded;
(g)   That the Borrower has executed and delivered a Third Supplemental
Trust Deed, in such form as the Bank shall reasonably require, and has registered
all the necessary particulars thereof in the Companies Registry of Nairobi, to cause
the sec,irity constituted by the Trust Deed to be modified and extended so that
as so modified and extended it will constitute by way of security for the principal
of, interest and premium  on prepayment (if any) on, the Loan and, pari passl
with the Debenture Stock issued under the Trust Deed and the loan by the Bank
to the Borrower so secured and the additional stock to be issued to EAP&L under
the EAP&L Loan Agreement:
(i)        a first mortgage upon all the properties of the Borrower
expressed in the Trust Deed to be the specifically mortgaged
premises thereunder or intended so to be; and
(ii)        a first floating charge upon all the property and assets expressed
in the Trust Deed to be charged or intended so to be by the
first floating charge created thereby.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:


﻿14
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized and delivered
on behalf of EAP&L, that all acts, consents and approvals necessary therefor have
been duly and validly performed or given, and that the Project Agreement
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of EAP&L in accordance with its terms;
(b)   That the EAP&L Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of EAP&L and the Borrower, that all
acts, consents and approvals necessary therefor have been duly and validly
performed or given, and that the EAP&L Loan Agreement constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the parties thereto in accordance with its terms;
(c)   That the Third Supplemental Trust Deed to be executed and delivered
and registered by the Borrower pursuant to Section 7.01(g) of this Agreement
has been validly and effectively executed and delivered and that the necessary
particulars thereof have been validly and effectively registered and that the Third
Supplemental Trust Deed has created a valid and effective charge and is capable
of creating valid and effective mortgages in accordance with its terms; and
(d)   That all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or
given by the Borrower or EAP&L or any of its agencies, or by the Guarantor,
the Guarantor's political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any political
subdivision, or otherwise to be performed or given, in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower, EAP&L and the Guarantor
to perform all of the covenants, obligations and agreements in the Loan Agreement,
the Project Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement contained, together with all
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly
performed, given or authorized.
Section 7.03. The date November 24, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿15
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
The Secretary
Tana River Development Company Limited
P.O. Box 7936
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:
ELECTRIC
Nairobi
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
TANA RIVER DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED
By /s / Bernard Adundo
Authorized Representative


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
Category.
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                   37,000,000          60%
(2)  Electrical Equip-              2,000,000          100% of foreign
ment and installa-                                expenditures
tion
(3)  Mechanical Equip-                800,000          100% of foreign
ment and installa-                                expenditures
tion
(4)   Engineering and               8,200,000          100% of foreign
Consultants' Services                             expenditures
(5)  Interest and other             8,000,000          Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
April 14, 1978
(6)   Unallocated                   7,000,000
TOTAL        63,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Guarantor.


﻿17
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category 4 on account of expenditures
incurred after April 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,500,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice
to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet such
estimated shortfall proceedo of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:    The construction of the Gitaru Hydroelectric Power Station on the
Tana River, an underground power station designed for three 67 MW
generating sets (rated at 72 MW for individual operation) driven by
vertical shaft Francis turbines, two of which will be installed under
the Project, and the provision of associated electrical and mechanical
equipment;
Part B:    The construction of a rock and earth-fill low diversion dam with an
integral spillway, vertical intake shafts with short headrace tunnels to
the underground power station and a partially lined tailrace tunnel
about 4,700 m long emptying into the Kindaruma reservoir, and the
provision of associated equipment;
Part C:    The construction of a 132 kV double circuit transmission line from
Gitaru to Kamburu (about 8 km) and a single circuit 275 kV
transmission line from Kamburu to just outside Nairobi (about
I l l km);
Part D:    The carrying out of a review of the management structure of EAP&L
and a study of its tariff structure.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
1Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
October 15, 1979                                      565,000
April 15, 1980                                        590,000
October 15, 1980                                      615,000
April 15, 1981                                        640,000
October 15, 1981                                      665,000
April 15, 1982                                        695,000
October 15, 1982                                      725,000
April 15, 1983                                        755,000
October 15, 1983                                      785,000
April 15, 1984                                        820,000
October 15, 1984                                      855,000
April 15, 1985                                        890,000
October 15, 1985                                      930,000
April 15, 1986                                        970,000
October 15, 1986                                     1,010,000
April 15, 1987                                       1,055,000
October 15, 1987                                     1,100,000
April 15, 1988                                       1,145,000
October 15, 1988                                     1,195,000
April 15, 1989                                       1,245,000
October 15, 1989                                     1,300,000
April 15, 1990                                       1,355,000
October 15, 1990                                     1,410,000
April 15, 1991                                       1,470,000
October 15, 1991                                     1,535,000
April 15, 1992                                       1,600,000
October 15, 1992                                     1,665,000
April 15, 1993                                       1,735,000
October 15, 1993                                     1,810,000
April 15, 1994                                       1,885,000
October 15, 1994                                     1,965,000
April 15, 1995                                      2,050,000
October 15, 1995                                     2,140,000
April 15, 1996                                      2,230,000
October 15, 1996                                     2,325,000
April 15, 1997                                      2,420,000
October 15, 1997                                     2,525,000
April 15, 1998                                      2,635,000
October 15, 1998                                    2,745,000
April 15, 1999                                       2,860,000
October 15, 1999                                     2,985,000
April 15, 2000                                      3,105,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿20
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                2-1/4%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                              4%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                          5-1/2%
More than sixteen years
but not more than
twenty-one years
before maturity                                7-1/4%
More than twenty-one years
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                                    8%
More than twenty-three years
before maturity                                8-1/2%


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinaftei called the Guidelines), on the basis of internatiorial
competitive bidding.
2.    Equipment contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
may be let on the basis of local procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
*       goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.


﻿22
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Kenya.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and finai contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder


﻿23
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report,
by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendation for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


