CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1250 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Shipping Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 20? 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE-
CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower is carrying out a program of recon-
struction and expansion of its inter-island shipping facilities,
including, inter alia: (i) the modernization of its inter-island
fleet by rehabilitation of about 54,500 dvt of operational ships
under Indonesian flag, acquisition from outside Indonesia of about
59,500 dwt of used, and about 53,750 dwt of new, ships and scrap-
ping of about 70,000 dwt of that fleet; (ii) a technical assistance
and training program designed to support and improve its inter-
island fleet operations and planning; and (iii) studies to deter-
mine the further rehabilitation and development of such facilities;
(B) The Borrower has created P.T. Pembangunan Armada Niaga
Nasional (hereinafter called PANN) for the purpose of purchasing
new and used foreign ships and organizing and supervising the re-
habilitation of operational ships under said program in coopera-
tion with Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (hereinafter called BAPINDO);
(C) The Borrower has requested the Bank and various other
agencies and several countries to assist in the financing of the
cost of the Project; and


﻿-2-
(D) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available, for the
purpose of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
(hereinafter called the Project), upon the terms and conditions
set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank, PANN and BAPINDO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank,
PANN and BAPINDO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
(b) "Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower, BANN and BAPINDO pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and suc.h term includes all schedules to the Financing
Agreement.


﻿-4-
(c) "Shipping Enterprise" means any enterprise which is owned
and controlled by Indonesian nationals and/or the Borrower, which
is licensed by the Borrower to operate in commerce ships, measuring
at least 175 gross registered tons or having a gross capacity of
at least 500 m 3, between islands of the Borrower, and which oper-
ates or may be expected to operate as owner, or as lessec under a
lease agreement with PANN, one or more ships purchased or reha-
bilitated under the Project.
(d) "BKI's classification standards" means the classifica-
tion standards enforced from time to time by BKI and conforming
to the classification standards of any internationally recognized
ship classification society acceptable to the Bank.
(e) "BKI" means Biro Klasifikasi Indonesia.
(f) "SEACOM" means the Directorate General of Sea Communi-
cations of the Borrower's Department of Communications.
(g) "PELNI" means P.T. Pelayaran Nasional Indonesia, a lim-
ited liability company owned by the Borrower, and any successor
thereto.
(h) "PANN Charter" means the articles of incorporation of
PANN authenticated by notarial deed of May 16, 1974, as amended
from time to time.
(i) "PANN Policy Statement" means PANN's Policy Statement
Memorandum approved by PANN's Dewan Komisaris on April 12, 1976,
as amended from time to time.


﻿- 5 -
(j) "BAPINDO Act" means the Urdang-Undang No. 21 PRP of 1960,
as amended by Undang-Undang No. 17 PRP of 1962 and Presidential
Decree No. 2 of 1966 and as further amended from time to time.
(k) "Development Agreement" means the development agreement
concluded or to be concluded between PANN and each Shipping Enter-
prise pursuant to the provisions of Part C of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, for the purpose of improving the management,
operations and financial condition of such Enterprise, including
the purchase, leasing, rehabilitation or scrapping of ships, and
technical assistance.
(1) "acquisition cost" means the sum of all expenses incurred
by PANN on account of the acquisition, subsequent repair and re-
modelling, and delivery to the Shipping Enterprise concerned, of
a ship, including without limitation the cost of any licenses,
duties, fees or charges imposed in connection with the registration,
mortgage or delivery of a ship.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrover, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
four million dollars ($54,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
equipment required for Part B (3) of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annun on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause PANN and BAPINDO to carry out Part A of the Project
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and to
perform all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause
SEACOM and BKI promptly as required to take all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services, licenses and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PANN and BAPINDO to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
provided, however, that the ships included in Part A.3 of the Proj-
ect need be acquired only to the extent that loans or financing
other than the Loan are available to the Borrower on reasonable
terms from sources outside Indonesia to finance the acquisition
cost in foreign exchange of such ships.
(b) The Borrower shall use its best efforts to obtain loans
or financing other than the Loan on reasonable terms from sources
outside Indonesia and shall make the proceeds of such other loans
or financing available to PANN, in order to meet as large a por-
tion of the foreign exchange requirements of the Project as
possible.
(c) The Borrower shall make available or cause to be made
available to PANN the funds required to carry out Part A of the
Project, including the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time


﻿- 9 -
to time to Part A of the Project, under a financing agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower, PANN and BAPINDO, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financ-
ing Agreemen1.0 in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Financing Agreement
or any provision thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall apply any proceeds of the Loan that
have been repaid to it by PANN and that have not yet been repaid
by it to the Bank, to finance the further development of its inter-
island shipping facilities.
Section 3.02, (a) The Borrower shall cause Part B of the
Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and ship-
ping standards and practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) In causing Part B of the Project to be carried out, the
Borrower shall be assisted by consultants and experts whose quali-
fications, experience and terms of reference, and, in respect of
consultants or experts whose services are to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, other terms and conditions of employment,
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3 .03. (a) In order to avoid an over-capacity of inter-
island ships, the Borrower shall cause the scrapping of ships under
the Project to be carefully phased with the commissioning of new
or used ships, or the recommissioning of rehabilitated ships, in
its inter-island service, so as to ensure that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree:
(i) about 70,000 dvt of ships measuring at least 175
gross registered tons or having a gross capacity
of at least 500 m 3, and previously licensed for
inter-island service shall be scrapped by Decem-
ber 31, 1979; and
(ii) the combined tonnage of the ships scrapped during
each of the calendar years 1976 through 1979 shall
be approximately equal to three-sevenths of the
combined tonnage of the ships commissioned or re-
commissioned in the Borrower's inter-island service
during the same year after their acquisition or
rehabilitation under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank during the first
quarter of each of the calendar years 1977 through 1980 a certifi-
cate of SEACOM specifying the ships and the aggregate ship tonnage
sold to shipbreakers or otherwise definitively withdrawn from ser-
vice during the immediately preceding calendar year.
(c) Before August 31, 1976 or such other date as the Bor-
rower and the Bank may agree, the Borrower sh&ll inform the Bank
about the total tonnage of ships specified in paragraph (a) (i)


﻿- 11 -
of this Section which have been scrapped between January 1, 1975
and July 31, 1976, and shall furnish to the Bank for its comm-ents
the criteria to be applied by the Borrower in the implementation
of its annual scrapping programs under the Project and the aggre-
gate tonnages it plans to scrap under the Project each calendar
year through 1979.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all action necessary to increase the productivity and improve the
financial position of the Shipping Enterprises by inter alia:
(a) undertaking an annual review of the inter-island ship-
ping tariffs and adjusting such tariffs as required to enable
the Shipping Enterprises to earn a reasonable return on their
modern efficiently operated ships, the first such review to be
made by December 31, 1976, or such later date as the Bank shall
agree;
(b) enforcing the Borrower's maritime safety regulations
and BKI's classification standards and maintaining such standards
in conformity with the classification standards of any interna-
tionally recognized ship classification society acceptable to the
Bank;
(c) the issue of route licenses on the basis of realistic
freight demand forecasts for such routes;
(d) causing the Shipping Enterprises to manage their affairs
and carry on their operations in accordance with appropriate fi-
nancial and shipping practices;


﻿- 12 -
(e) taking such legislative and administrative actions as
shall be required to permit the registration of effective mortgages
on ships that at the time of registration are located outside the
territory of the Borrower; and
(f) reviewing ways and means to reduce the time spent in
port by ships of Shipping Enterprises, including inter alia intro-
duction of cargo unitization.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for
Part B of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services for Part B of the Project fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for
Part B of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Part B of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 13 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of Part B of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods, works and services for Part B
of the Project financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to
disclose the use thereof in Part B of the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in Part B of the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Proj-
ect, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods,
works and services for Part B of the Project financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.07. In the event that the combined capacity of ships
that were acquired since January 1, 1976 from outside Indonesia
(other than under the Project), by PANN or by enterprises licensed
by the Borrower to operate in commerce general cargo ships measur-
ing at least 175 gross registered tons or having a gross capacity
of at least 500 m 3, between islands of the Borrower, exceeds 12,000
dwt (or such other aggregate tonnage as the Borrower and the Bank
may agree), the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank of such
event and shall agree to such reduction in the scope of the Proj-
ect as the Bank shall reasonably determine in order to compensate
for such acquisitions and similar acquisitions that may then be
expected to be made thereafter.


﻿-14 -                                       1
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any ex-
ternal debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make ex-
press provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 15 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause PANN and each of the
Shipping Enterprises to have each of their respective ships whose
acquisition or rehabilitation was financed in whole or in part
out of the proceeds of the Loan pass its first quadrennial survey
after such acquisition or rehabilitation meeting BKI's classifi-
cation standards and the classification standards of another ship
classification society acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) PANN or BAPINDO shall have failed to perform any of its
covenants, agreements or obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that PANN or BAPINDO will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) The PANN Charter or the PANN Policy Statement or the
BAPINDO Act shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the financial
condition or the operations of PANN or BAPINDO, respectively.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of PANN or BAPINDO or for the suspension of their respective
operations.
(e) PANN or BAPINDO shall have become unable to pay its
debts as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been
taken by PANN or by BAPINDO or by others whereby any of the prop-
erty of PANN or BAPINDO shall or may be distributed among its
creditors.


﻿- 17 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and PANN or BAPINDO as the case shall
require; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 18 -                                      I
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of PANN and BAPINDO have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) The execution and delivery of the Financing Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and PANN and BAPINDO, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, PAMN and
BAPINDO, and is legally binding upon PANN and BAPINDO in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) That the Financing Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Bor-
rover and PANN and BAPINDO, respectively, and is legally binding


﻿-19-
upon the Borrower and PANN and BAPINDO in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date August 19, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
.Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Jakarta
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Zahar Arifin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Repair and re-             6,000,000         100% of foreign
equipment of Indo-                          expenditures and
nesian ships under                          60% of local ex-
Part A (1) of the                           penditures (rep-
Project                                     resenting the
estimated for-
eign expenditure
component)
(2) Acquisition of used       35,000,000         100% of foreign
ships outside Indo-                         expenditures
nesia under Part A
(2) of the Project
(3) Modification of            2,000,000         100% of foreign
used ships purchased                        expenditures and
outside Indonesia                           60% of local ex-
under Part A (2) of                         penditures (rep-
the Project                                 resenting the
estimated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)


﻿- 23 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Delivery costs of          4,000,000         100% of foreign
ships under Part                             expenditures
A (2) of the Proj-
ect
(5) Services of consul-         2,800,000        100% of foreign
tants and experts                            expenditures on
account of non-
Indonesian con-
sultants and ex-
perts and 80%
of local expen-
ditures on ac-
count of Indone-
sian consultants
and experts
(6) Equipment for mari-        1,000,000         100% of foreign
time officers'                               expenditures
training facilities
(7) Unallocated                 3,200,000
TOTAL      54,000,000


﻿-24 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that-withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (5) on account


﻿-25-
of expenditures incurred after January 31, 1976, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000; or
(b) a ship under Category (1), t2), (3) or (4) unless the
Bank shall have first authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account
for the purchase or rehabilitation of such ship.
5.   When requesting the Bank's authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account for the purchase or rehabilitation of a
ship, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in
form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) an appraisal by
BAPINDO and PANN of the technical, operational and financial con-
ditions of the ShippLig Enterprise concerned and its ships; (ii)
a statement from SEACOM indicating which ships, if any, of the
Shipping Enterprise concerned are to be rehabilitated or scrapped;
(iii) a certified copy of the Development Agreement between PANN
and the Shipping Enterprise concerned executed pursuant to the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and (iv) (a)
in respect of the purchase of a used ship, a description of the
ship, certified copies of the purchase contract and the bill of
sale, a certificate issued by SEAf'OM that the ship meets the Bor-
rower's licensing requirements and will be registered, a deletion
certificate, confirmation by PANN that the ship is acceptable, and
a certificate issued by an internationally recognized ship classi-
fication society acceptable to the Bank that the ship is in class;
or (b) in respect of the rehabilitation of a ship, a description
of the rehabilitation works to be carried out, a certified copy of
that contract between PANN and the shipyard that shall carry out
such works, and certificates issued by SEACOM and BKI showing that
the rehabilitation works are designed to meet at least the Bor-
rower's shipping regulations and BKI's classification standards.


﻿- 26 -
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an arunt of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement per-
centage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
T.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement or in the
Project Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or rem-
edy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Loan.


﻿I
- 27 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's ongoing inter-island
shipping reconstruction and expansion program providing about
53,750 dwt of new ships, about 59,500 dwt of used ships acquired
from outside Indonesia and rehabilitation of about 54,500 dwt of
operational ships. The Project consists of the following:
Part A.
1.   Repair and re-equipment to BKI's classification stan-
dards and the Borrower's licensing requirements of
inter-island cargo ships (with an aggregate capacity
of about 54,500 dwt), owned and operated by Shipping
Enterprises, where such rehabilitation is economically
justified.
2.   Purchase by PANN, and subsequent sale or lease to
Shipping Enterprises, of about 41 used cargo ships
in the 1,000 dwt class, 4 used cargo ships in the
1,500 dwt class and 2 used cargo ships in the
2,500 dwt class, registered and licensed outside
Indonesia and meeting the Borrower's licensing re-
quirements and BKI's classification standards.
3.   Purchase by PANN or construction for the account of
PANN, and subsequent sale or lease to Shipping En-
terprises, subject to the proviso in Section 3.01
(a) of this Agreement, of 13 new ships in the 750


﻿- 28 -
dwt class, 21 new ships in the 1,000 dvt class
and 13 new ships in the 1,500 dwt class, meeting
the Borrower's licensing requirements and BKI's
classification standards and the safety require-
ments of the country where they are constructed.
4.   Strengthening of the financial, administrative and
operational capabilities of PANN and of each of the
Shipping Enterprises.
Part B.
1.   Scrapping of about 70,000 dwt of inter-island ships
that do not meet the Borrower's licensing require-
ments or BKI's classification standards and whose
rehabilitation would be uneconomical.
2.   Enactment of appropriate maritime safety regulations
based on the recommendations of the expert to be em-
ployed for the purpose of drafting such regulations,
and establishment of the administrative machinery
necessary for their enforcement.
3.   Expansion, equipment and staffing of facilities for
the training of ship engineers and navigators, ade-
quate to graduate about 400 students per academic
year.
4.   Review of the financial position, organizational
structure, management, technical capabilities and


﻿operations of PELNI, the formulation of an action
program acceptable to the Bank based on such review
and the implementation of such program.
5.   Programs for the further development of:
(a) SEACOM's ability to plan and to define inter-island
shipping routes and to administer the Borrower's
maritime safety regulations;
(b) the Borrower's systems of. navigational aids and
communications; and
(c) BKI, by inter alia the provision of training fellow-
ships abroad to ship inspectors.
6.   A study of the further development of the Borrower's
inter-island regular liner service to determine addi-
tional shipping tonnage requirements through 1990, if
any, and to estimate their economic costs and benefits
taking into account not only the efficiency of existing
inter-island shipping facilities but also the possible
effects of investments in such facilities on the economic
development of Indonesia.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 1979                                  1,340,000
June 15, 1980                                      1,395,000
December 15, 1980                                  1,4559000
June 15, 1981                                      1,515,000
December 15, 1981                                  1,580,000
June 15, 1982                                      1,645,000
December 15, 1982                                  1,715,000
June 15, 1983                                      1,790,000
December 15, 1983                                  1,865,000
June 15, 1984                                      1,945,000
December 15, 1984                                  2,030,000
June 15, 1985                                      2,115,000
December 15, 1985                                  2,205,000
June 15, 1986                                      2,300,000
December 15, 1986                                  2,395,000
June 15, 1987                                      2,500,000
December 15, 1987                                  2,605,000
June 15, 1988                                      2,715,000
December 15, 1988                                  2,830,000
June 15, 1989                                      2,950,000
December 15, 1989                                  3,075,000
June 15, 1990                                      3,205,000
December 15, 1990                                  3,345,000
June 15, 1991                                      3,485,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/2%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-3/4%
Mbre than six year3 but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5-3/4%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                        7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement of Equipment for
Part B (3) of the Project
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, equipment required
for Part B (3) of the Project and included in equipment lists
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank shall be procured
under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures con-
sistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" Published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Subject to the Bank's prior agreement, the Borrower may pro-
cure certain types of equipmenit for which bidding pursuant to
international advertising is unsuitable through international
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods; (ii) cus-
toms duties and other import taxes on imported goods shall be ex-
cluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 33 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the in-
tended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 34-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


