CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1250 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Second Shipping Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
P.T. PEMBANGUNAN ARMADA NIAGA NASIONAL
and
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
Dated May 20, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and P.T. PEMBANGUNAN ARMADA NIAGA NASIONAL (hereinafter called
PANN) and BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (hereinafter called BAPINDO).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-four million
dollars ($54,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PANN and BAPINDO
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS by a financing agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PANN and BAPINDO, the proceeds of the loan pro-
vided for under the Loan Agreement for Part A of the Project will
be made available to PANN on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS PANN and BAPINDO, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Rupiah"
means Rupiah in currency of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PANN and BAPINDO shall carry out Part A of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial and shipping practices and in accordance with
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time; provided, however, that the ships
included in Part A.3 of the Project need be acquired only to the
extent that financing shall be available to PANN to meet the
acquisition cost in foreign exchange of such ships.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PANN in the acquisition of
ships, in the supervision of ship construction and rehabilitation,
and in the appraisal of, and the administration of its arrangements
with, Shipping Enterprises, PANN shall employ consultant naval
architects, shipbrokers and surveyors, legal counsel, and resident
financial and technical advisors whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 2.03. The repairs and re-equipment of(he used ships
to be acquired or rehabilitated under the Project shall be carried
out by qualified and experienced shipyards.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PANN
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effert


﻿of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any Development
Agreement which has been submitted to the Bank for its approval
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement,
or any provision of such Development Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) PANN undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part A of the Project
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by PANN to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PANN shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated to Part A of the Project to be used exclusively for Part
A of the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) PANYN shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, tIhe plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for Part A of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PANN: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Part A of the Project, and to
disclose the use thereof in Part A of the Project; (ii) shall,


﻿*                                  -5 -
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in Part A of the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part
A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so
allocated, the goods, works and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds and any Shipping Enterprise; provided, however, that PANN
shall only be required to use its best efforts in enabling the
Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in Part A (3) of the Project and situated outside
the territory of the Borrower.
(c) PANN shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of PANN and each of the Shipping Enterprises and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. PANN and BAPINDO shall duly perform all their
respective obligations under the Financing Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, neither PANN nor BAPINDO shall
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amend-
ing, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Financing Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) PANN and BAPINDO shall, at the request of
the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress
of Part A of the Project, the performance of their respective
01


﻿-6-
obligations under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement,
the operations and financial condition of any Shipping Enterprise
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) PANN shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part A
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the
performance by PANN of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Financing Agreement, or the performance by any Shipping
Enterprise of its obligations under any of its agreements with PANN.
01


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PANN
Section 3.01. PANN shall at all times manage its affairs and
carry on its operations in accordance with the provisions of the
PANN Charter and the PANN Policy Statement and in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and shipping
practices, under the supervision of competent and experienced
management assisted by qualified and competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. PANN shall:
(a) ensure that its facilities, ships, equipment and other
property will be operated and maintained, and that promptly as
required all necessary repairs and renewals thereof will be made,
in accordance with appropriate engineering and shipping practices;
and
(b) take out and maintain with responsible insurers insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice, and, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, cause any ship owned by PANN or securing the performance
of any obligation towards PANN to be insured with responsible
insurers against all risks for the full replacement value of such
ship.
Section 3.03. PANN shall duly enforce the provisions of any
contract between PANN and a Shipping Enterprise for the sale, lease
01


﻿-8-
or financing of any ship acquired or rehabilitated under the
Project, and shall inform the Bank on a regular basis of the
performance by the Shipping Enterprises of their respective
obligations under such contracts.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants of PANN
Section 4.01. PANN shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PANN shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PANN and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PANN
undertakes that its depreciable fixed assets shall be fully
depreciated within a period reflecting the reasonably estimated
economic life of such assets starting at the close of the fiscal
year during which such assets were placed into service, and in
conformity with appropriate financial principles and accounting
practices.


﻿- 10-
Section 4.04. For the purposes of this Section and Sections
4.05, 4.06 and 4.07 of this Agreement:
(a) the term "debt" means all indebtedness incurred by PANN,
including indebtedness assumed or guaranteed by PANN;
(b) the term "long-term debt" means any debt maturing by
its terms more than twelve months after the date on which it is
originally incurred, and the term "short-term debt" means any debt
other than long-term debt;
(c) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date and to the extent that it is
drawn down pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and (B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee is entered into but only to the extent that the
guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(d) the term "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources less operating and administrative expenses (including taxes,
surcharges and other levies) and interest and other charges on
short-term debt, if any, but before provision for depreciation and
interest and other charges on long-term debt;
(e) the term "net earnings" means net revenues less adequate
provision for depreciation and interest and other charges on long-
term debt;
(f) the term "long-term debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization, interest and other charges
payable in respect of long-term debt during any fiscal year;


﻿*                          -11 -
(g) whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms of
Rupiah debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
which such other currency is obtainable by PANN, at the time of
such valuation, for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if
such other currency is not so obtainable, at such reasonable rate
of exchange as shall be acceptable to the Bank;
(h) the term "current assets" means cash, marketable secu-
rities, accounts receivable and inventories, provided, however,
that, if any amount receivable by PANN from a Shipping Enterprise
is overdue by more than six months, such overdue amount shall not
be included in PANN's current assets;
(i) the term "current liabilities" means liabilities due
and payable and all other liabilities which would be due and pay-
able, or could be called for payment, within twelve months,
including the portion, if any, of long-term debt maturing by its
terms within twelve months; and
(j) the term "equity" shall mean PANN's unimpaired paid in
share capital, retained earnings, surplus and reserves (including
any revaluation reserve but excluding any reserve allocated to
cover specific liabilities).
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PANN
shall not incur any long-term debt if, at any time after the
incurrence of such new debt, the aggregate principal amount of
long-term debt of PANN then incurred and outstanding would be more
than 1.8 times the amount of PANN's equity at such time.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PANN shall after its fiscal year 1980:
(i) at all times maintain a ratio of current assets
to current liabilities of at least sixty to
forty;
(ii) at all times maintain a ratio of net revenues
earned during any fiscal year to long-term debt
service requirements of the next following fiscal
year of at least sixty to forty;
(iii) meet out of its revenues accountable to each
fiscal year its full operating and administrative
expenses (including adequate provisions for
maintenance, depreciation, taxes, surcharges and
other levies, and interest and other charges on
debt) accountable to the same fiscal year; and
(iv) earn in respect of each fiscal year a reasonable
return, after taxes, on its equity.
(b) For the purposes of making the calculation under subsec-
tion (a) (iv) of this Section, the assets of PANN shall be deemed
to be revalued from time to time in accordance with appropriate
valuation principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:


﻿-13 -
(a) PANN shall not declare any dividend or make any other
distribution with respect to its capital shares except out of its
accumulated net earnings; and
(b) Without limiting the generality of Section 4.06 (a) (i)
of this Agreement, PANN shall not pay any dividend or make any
other distribution with respect to its capital shares (other than
dividends or distributions payable solely in such capital shares)
or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly
for any consideration, any of such capital shares if, after giving
effect to such action, the current assets of PANN would be less
than 1.5 times the current liabilities of PANN.
(1


﻿- 14 -                                 S
ARTICLE V
Management, Operations and
Ainancial Covenants of BAPINDO
Section 5.01. BAPINDO shall conduct its operations and affairs
in accordance with appropriate financial standards and practices,
under the supervision of qualified management and personnel, and
in accordance with the BAPINDO Act and the Policy Statement of
BAPINDO.
Section 5.02. The Bank and BAPINDO agree that all the provi-
sions of Sections 2.07, 2.08, 2.10 and 2.11 and Article III of
the project agreement executed and delivered on November 20, 1974,
between the Bank and BAPINDO will have the same force and effect
as if they were fully set forth herein (provided, however, that
the words "Financing Agreement" shall be substituted for the words
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" wherever they appear in said project
agreement), and that, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
force and effect of such provisions under this Agreement will not
be affected by the termination of said project agreement in accor-
dance with its terms.
*


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PANN and BAPINDO thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date fifteen years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify PANN and BAPINDO of this
event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or per-
mitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For PANN:                          For BAPINDO:
P.T. Pembangunan                   Bank Pembangunan
Armada Niaga Nasional              Indonesia
P.O. Box 3377                      P.O. Box 140
Jakarta                            Jakarta
Indonesia                          Indonesia
01


﻿-17 -
Cable address:                     Cable address:
NATFLEET                           BAPINDO
Jakarta                            Jakarta
Section 7.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be
taken 0o4 any documents required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of PANN may be taken or executed
by its President or such other person or persons as its President
shall designate in writing.
(b) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agree-
ment on behalf of BAPINDO may be taken or executed by its President
or such other person or persons as its President shall designate
in writing.
Section 7.03. PANN and BAPINDO shall each furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on their respective
behalf, take any action or execute any documents required or per-
mitted to be taken or executed by it pursuant to any of the pro-
visions of this Agree7xent.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 18- -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
P.T. PEMBANGUNAN ARMADA NIAGA NASIONAL
By Is/ Zahar Arifin
Authorized Representative
BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
By /s/ Zahar Arifin
Authorized Representative


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE
Procedures for the Execution of
Part A of the Project
A.   General Provisions
1.   PANN shall invite Shipping Enterprises to apply to PANN for
the purchase or lease of a new or used ship or the rehabilitation
of one or more of the ships then owned and operated by such Enter-
prises.
2.   Upon receipt of such application and upon the request of PANN,
BAPINDO shall, pursuant to a consultancy agreement between PAN
and BAPINDO, carry out an appraisal of the technical, operational
and financial conditions of the applicant Shipping Enterprise and
of its ships.
3.   On the basis of the application, the appraisal and the advice
of its consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement,.
PANN shall decide whether the applicant Shipping Enterprise is
eligible for assistance under Part A of the Project and, if so,
the form such assistance shall take, and the terms and conditions
upon which it shall be made available.
4.   Subsequently, PANN shall inform SEACOM of its decision and
furnish to SEACOM such information as SEACOM may require, and shall
obtain from SEACOM a statement indicating what ships, if any, of
the applicant Shipping Enterprise shall be rehabilitated or scrapped.


﻿-20-
5.   Thereafter, if the Shipping Enterprise is eligible for assis-
tance under Part A of the Project, PANN shall enter into a Develop-
ment Agreement with the Shipping Enterprise specifying the terms
and conditions under which ships will be made available to the
Enterprise by PANN or be rehabilitated.
6.   Ships constructed to the order of, or purchased by, PANN shall
be sold or leased to Shipping Enterprises. PANN may sell ships to
creditworthy Shipping Enterprises on terms pursuant to which the
sales price will be paid to PANN in installments subject to in-
terest on the balance of the sales price outstanding from time to
time.
7.   Ship rehabilitation under the Project shall be carried out
by PANN under arrangements whereby PANN will lease the ship to
be rehabilitated from the Enterprise and lease it back to the
Enterprise upon completion of the rehabilitation.
B.   Appraisal of Shipping Enterprises
1.   The appraisal of Shipping Enterprises referred to in para-
graph A.2 of this Schedule shall be carried out, at least during
the first two years of the effectiveness of this Agreement, by
BAPINDO's Maritime Credit Department pursuant to a consultancy
agreement with PANN. During this period of two years, staff of
PANN will assist BAPINDO's staff in making the appraisals with
the intention that at the end of this period further appraisals
will be done solely by PANN's staff.
2.   The appraisal shall to the extent possible include inter alia
the following:


﻿-21 -
(a) An inspection of the ships owned by the Shipping Enter-
prise and operated in inter-island carriage. The inspections shall
be carried out with due regard to the regulations of SEACOM and
in consultation with BKI. The inspection report shall: provide the
technical specifications and age of the ships; state their value
as estimated on the basis of appropriate valuation principles and
procedures; specify what ships, if any, meet the Borrower's
licensing requirements and BKI's classification standards or may
be rehabilitated or are recommended for scrapping; and state for
each ship that may be rehabilitated what repairs or modifications
must be made to the ship or its equipment to meet such requirements
and standards or to improve its productivity, as well as the esti-
mated cost of rehabilitation. In those cases where lack of time
or physical difficulty of access make it impractical to inspect
all ships of an Enterprise before completion of the appraisal,
suitably qualified reports will be made on ships not inspected and
every reasonable endeavor will be made to inspect such ships at
a later date and to report on the results of the inspection.
(b) An evaluation of the staff of the Shipping Enterprise,
with special emphasis on: management, organization and administra-
tion of the Enterprise; salary and wage structure; accounting;
planning and budgeting; navigational qualifications; routine main-
tenance; internal and external communications; and passenger and
cargo handling. The evaluation report shall make detailed recom-
mendations on the actions to be taken to correct any deficiencies
found, including without limitation training required and the
employment of consultants.


﻿-22-
(c) An evaluation of the operations of the Shipping Enter-
prise, producing,on the basis of reliable data on past operations
and realistic forecasts of future operations (including the effect
of the Enterprise's participation in Part A of the Project), and
on an annual basis, detailed information covering the two fiscal
years immediately preceding and the two fiscal years immediately
following the year in which the evaluation is made as well as the
current fiscJLl year, and in outline forecasts for the third, fourth
and fifth fiscal years immediately following the year in which the
evaluation is made, on: routes covered; revenues earned per ton or
per ton-mile or, if possible, the ratio between weight ton and rev-
enue ton; number of passengers carried; load factor; repair days;
seadays-portdays ratio; seadays; average distance traveled each
year per ship; average speed per ship; productivity ratio (i.e.,
tons carried or ton-miles sold each year per dead weight ton);
crew-ton ratio or crew per ton-mile sold ratio for each ship; and
total tonnage required each year to meet demand on the routes con-
cerned. The evaluation report shall make detailed recommendations
on the actions considered to be required to improve the Enterprise's
operations and financial condition.
(d) A financial appraisal of the Shipping Enterprise, based
on its financial statements and records for the immediately pre-
ceeding fiscal year, audited by qualified independent auditors
(or, if such audit was not made and cannot be completed in time,
reviewed by BAPINDO), and on realistic forecasts of revenues and
costs, and covering the periods referred to in the preceding para-
graph (c). The financial appraisal report shall include a detailed
analysis of past and future balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements and shall specify inter alia


﻿-23 -
the debt-equity ratios and current ratios for said periods. The
appraisal report shall make detailed recommendations on the ac-
tions to be taken to improve the financial condition of the En-
terprise, and shall recommend financial targets to be met by the
Enterprise.
C. Terms and Conditions on which PANN vill make Assistance
Available to Shipping Enterprises
1.   PANN shall on the basis of the appraisal report and SEACOM's
statement referred to in paragraph A hereof conclude a Develop-
ment Agreement in form and substance acceptable to the Bank with
each eligible Shipping Enterprise stating the terms and conditions
on which assistance will be made available.
2.   Only Shipping Enterprises that are considered to be able to
meet all their foreseeable financial obligations t; PANN shall be
eligible.
3.   Each Development Agreement shall be entered into on terms
and conditions adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and
PANN, and shall inter alia:
(a) Specify the main particulars of the new or used ships
to be acquired by PANN for sale or lease to the Shipping Enterprise
and the ships of the Enterprise to be rehabilitated with the
assistance of PANN or to be scrapped.
(b) Require the Shipping Enterprise to enter into agreements
with PANN for the sale (on cash or credit terms as appropriate)


﻿or lease to the Enterprise of any new or used ship acquired by PANN
pursuant to the Development Agreement, and such sale or lease
agreements shall be substantially in accordance with the form of
sale or lease agreement attached to the Development Agreement.
(c) Require the Shipping Enterprise to rehabilitate any
ship that is to be rehabilitated under the Development Agreement
from resources otherwise available to the Enterprise; or, alter-
natively, if the rehabilitation of the ship is to be financed by
PANN, to lease and deliver the ship to PANN and, upon completion
of its rehabilitation, to lease the ship back from PANN under a
lease agreement substantially in accordance with the form of lease
agreement attached to the Development Agreement.
(d) Require the Shipping Enterprise to deliver to PANN, by
the date specified in the Development Agreement, the registration
certificate and sailing permit of any of its ships to be scrapped,
or evidence that these certificates have been cancelled or that
the ship has been struck off the Indonesian ship register.
(e) Require PANN: (i) to purchase or to rehabilitate the
ships to be purchased or rehabilitated by PANN pursuant to the
Development Agreement with due diligence and efficiency, in con-
formity with appropriate financial, administrative, engineering
and shipping practices, and at reasonable costs which shall not
exceed the maximum cost figures specified in the Development Agree-
ment, as such maximum cost figures may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the parties to that Agreement, with the
consent of the Bank if such costs are to be financed out of the


﻿- 25 -
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) to arrange for the training of staff
of the Shipping Enterprise in the operation and maintenance of the
ships so purchased or rehabilitated.
(f) Require the Shipping Enterprise:
(i) to manage its affairs, carry on its operations
(including without limitation the adequate and
timely maintenance of its ships) and plan its
future expansion in accordance with appropriate
financial, administrative and shipping practices
under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers;
(ii) to maintain adequate records and to have its
accounts and financial statements for each of
its fiscal years audited by a qualified
independent auditor;
(iii) to take out and to maintain, or to authorize PANN
to take out and to maintain for the account and
benefit of the Enterprise, with responsible
insurers insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice, providing without limitation for all-risk
insurance in respect of each of the ships of the
Enterprise for the full replacement value of such
ships and for the assignment to PANN of the


﻿- 26-
insurance proceeds if and to the extent required
to cover the Enterprise's obligations towards
PANN in respect oi such ship;
(iv) to furnish to PANIN such information as PANN shall
request concerning the operations and financial
condition of the Shipping Enterprise, to permit
representatives of PANN and the Bank to inspect
the ships of the Shipping Enterprise and any
relevant records and documents; and
(v) to perform such other obligations as shall be
designed to improve the operations and finan-
cial condition of the Shipping Enterprise and
be specified in the Development Agreement.
(g) Permit PANN to exercise appropriate remedies in the
event that the Shipping Enterprise will have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Rehabilitation Agreement.
D.   Procurement of Used Ships
PANN shall procure the used ships specified in the Develop-
ment Agreements in accordance with the following procedures.
1.   PANN shall, through its shipbrokers, secure offers for the
sale of used ships that will be less than ten years old at the
date of their purchase by PANN and that meet the requirements of
the Shipping Enterprises as specified in their respective Devel-
opment Agreements. If an offer is made, PANN shall, prior to its
acceptance, make an inspection of the ship.


﻿-27 -
2.   PANN shall send a copy of the inspection report to SEACOM and
BKI and obtain statements:
(a) from SEACOM that the ship qualifies for licensing in
inter-island shipping, or, if not, a statement of the alterations
to be made so to qualify the ship; and
(b) from BKI that the ship meets BKI's classification stan-
dards, or, if not, a statement of the alterations to be made to
permit the ship to meet such standards.
3.   On the basis of the inspection report and BKI's statement,
PANN shall prepare a final report and recommendation on the purchase
of the ship. PANN shall furnish copies of the inspection report and
its final report and recommendations to the Enterprise and consult
the Enterprise thereon.
4.   If PANN and the Enterprise decide that the ship is suitable,
PANN shall negotiate with the shipowner the sale of the ship to
PANN and arrange for the repairs and alterations required, if any.
If PANN accepts the ship and if during the predelivery drydock
inspection PANN considers it necessary or desirable to carry out
any repairs or modifications to the ship, PANN shall obtain an
estimate of the cost thereof and arrange for such repairs or
modifications.
E.   Rehabilitation of Ships of Shipping Enterprises
The rehabilitation of ships pursuant to the Development Agree-
ments shall be carried out in accordance with the following pro-
cedures.


﻿-28 -
1.   If the Shipping Enterprise shall decide that the rehabilitation
of a ship will not be financed by PANN, the Shipping Enterprise
shall enter into a contract acceptable to PANN for rehabilitation
of the ship with a qualified and experienced shipyard which con-
tract shall provide inter alia that the rehabilitation works shall
include at least the modifications to be made to the ship pursuant
to the inspection report referred to in paragraph B.2 (a) of this
Schedule. PANN shall promptly notify SEACOM of such decision.
2.   If the ship's rehabilitation is to be financed by PANN, the
Enterprise shall lease and deliver the ship to PANN under a lease
agreement which shall run for not more than five years. PANN shall
enter into a contract for rehabilitation of the ship with a ship-
yard selected by PANN in consultation with the Enterprise and
after prudent shopping. The ship rehabilitation works contract
shall provide inter alia for a rehabilitation cost which, unless
otherwise agreed between PANN and the Shipping Enterprise with the
consent of the Bank, shall not exceed the maximum cost figure
specified in the Development Agreement with the Enterprise, and
for the execution of a. 1 modifications to be made to the ship
pursuant to the inspection report referred to in paragraph B.2 (a)
of this Schedule. Upon completion of the rehabilitation works,
PANN shall lease the ship back to the Enterprise.
F.   Terms and Conditions of Sales and Leases by PANN
1.   Sales of Ships by PANN
(a) Sales of ships by PANN shall be made under arrangements
whereby the purchase price of the ship shall be paid either in
cash upon delivery of the ship to the Shipping Enterprise or in
installments.


﻿-29 -
(b) At the request of the Shipping Enterprise PANN shall
sell to the Enterprise the ships constructed or purchased under
Part A of the Project, under a purchase agreemerit substantially
in accordance with the form of purchase agreement attached to
the Development Agreement with the Enterprise.
(c) If the Enterprise is creditworthy, PANN shall at the
request of the Enterprise finance a portion of the purchase price
of the ship by permitting the Enterprise to pay such portion of
the purchase price in installments. The portion of the purchase
price to be paid in installments shall not exceed 90% of the pur-
chase price. The Enterprise shall pay interest at the rate of 10%
per annum on the portion of the purchase price outstanding from
time to time. In addition, the Enterprise shall upon signing of
the purchase agreement pay to PANN a one-time commitment fee equal
to 1% of the portion of the purchase price to be paid in install-
ments. For newly constructed ships, the installment period shall
not exceed fifteen years including a grace period of not more than
six months after delivery of the ship to the Enterprise; for used
ships, the installment period shall not exceed ten years including
a grace period of not more than six months after delivery of the
ship to the Enterprise. All debt service obligations of the Enter-
prise to PANN shall be secured by a first mortgage on the ship.
2.   Leases of Ships by PANN
(a) If the newly constructed ar used ship cannot be sold to
the Shipping Enterprise, PANN shall lease the ship to the Enter-
prise at a lease price that shall be calculated on the basis of
amortization of the acquisition cost of the ship to PANN and in-
terest at the rate of 10% per annum on the unamortized portion


﻿- 30 -
of such cost outstanding from time to time. New ships shall be
amortized over not more than 15 years; used ships shall be amr-
tized over not more than 10 years. Upon signing of the lease,
the lessee shall pay to PANN a one-time commitment fee of 1% of
the value of the ship on the basis of which the lease price is
calculated. The lease price may be revised on termination or re-
newal of the lease to reflect the ship's depreciated replacement
cost. The lease agreement shall be substantially in accordance
with the form of lease agreement attached to the Development
Agreement with the Enterprise.
(b) If the ship is rehabilitated by PANN, the ship shall,
upon completion of its rehabilitation, be leased back to the
Shipping Enterprise under a lease agreement substantially in ac-
cordance with the form of lease agreement attached to the Develop-
ment Agreement with the Enterprise. The total lease price shall be
determined on the basis of the following:
(i) amortization of the cost of rehabilitation of
the ship; and
(ii) 10% per annum of the unamortized cost of
rehabilitation.
Upon signing of the lease, the lessee shall pay to PANN a one-
time commitment fee of 1% of the cost of rehabilitation of the ship.
The lease period shall not exceed 5 years after the date on which
the rehabilitated ship is recommissioned to service. All financial
obligations of the Shipping Enterprise towards PANN pursuant to the
lease agreement shall be secured by a first mortgage on the ship.
40


