Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2541 
Project Name 
AR- Essential Public Health Functions 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Health (100%) 
Project ID 
P090993 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Argentine Republic 
 
Ministerio de Salud y Ambiente 
Av. 9 de Julio 1925, 11avo piso 
Buenos Aires 
Argentina 
Tel: (5411)-43799179  
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
Updated: September 29, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 3 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
November 21, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Economic context and background
:
Argentina continues its rapid recovery from the deep 
economic crisis of 2001
–02. During the crisis, gross domestic product (GDP) fell by 20 percent, with a 
decline of 11 percent in 2002 alone.  The social impact of the crisis was enormous, and poverty increased 
dramatically. According to official statistics,
1
the share of the population defined as poor increased to 
nearly 60 percent of the population, almost doubling from 12 million to 22 million in the two years 
between 2000 and 2002. In the same period, the number of extremely poor people nearly doubled to 10.4 
million, about 30 percent of the population. Although the poverty rate fell to 31.4 percent in the first half 
of 2006, it is still somewhat above the pre-crisis level of 30 percent. During the upturn, the 
unemployment rate also decreased consistently from 22 percent in 2002 to 11.4 percent in 2005. 
 
Since the peak of the crisis in 2002, the economic recovery has been robust; GDP growth averaged 9 
percent between 2003 and 2005. In 2005, GDP reached its 1998 pre-crisis peak. The recovery was led by 
strong export earnings and increasing investment and was further aided by renewed consumer confidence. 
Prudent macroeconomic policies were key in the recovery, especially fiscal policies that generated 
primary surpluses in excess of 4.5 percent of GDP in 2004–05. In 2005, the government restructured 75 
percent of its debt in default and, in January 2006, prepaid its outstanding debt with the International 
Monetary Fund (IMF).  Official forecasts for 2006 suggest a continuation of growth in the order of [5 to 6 
percent], with private sector growth forecast
2
at close to 8 percent. The current principal macroeconomic 
1
In 2005, the official extreme poverty line was roughly equivalent to US$1.30/day and the poverty line to 
US$2.90/day. 
2
The latest Market Expectation Survey (REM) conducted by the Central Bank of Argentina projects growth of 
7.8percent for 2006.  
Page  2
2
challenge is to contain inflation, which has been running at an inter-annual rate of about 11 to 12 percent.  
 
Health Outcomes
:
Argentina is in an advanced demographic and epidemiologic transition with 
significant positive trends in key health status indicators. Infant mortality has returned to a steady decline 
after a brief increase due to the economic crisis of 2001/2002 and today stands at 14.4 per 1,000 live 
births. Maternal mortality is around 44 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births.  Life expectancy 
continues to increase (from 71.9 to 74.6 between 1990 and 2004).  Today, the country’s burden of disease 
(Table 1) is dominated by non-communicable diseases and injuries (88%), primarily cardiovascular 
diseases, cancers and chronic respiratory diseases. 
 
Table 1. Argentina, Lives Lost to Various Causes, 2002 
 
Cause Mortality 
Rate* 
Percent 
Infectious, maternal, perinatal, nutritional 
36.2 
12.9 
NCD 225.1 
80.0 
Injuries 20.1 
7.1 
*
per 100,000 population. 
 
Source: WHO, PAHO and MSN. 
 
Despite these advances, Argentina’s health outcomes lag behind countries with similar incomes 
despite high spending on health and a high coverage of health providers and hospital beds.  In 2004, life 
expectancy in Argentina at birth was greater than the Latin American average but lower than Costa Rica, 
Chile, Uruguay, and Panama, countries with similar or lower incomes than Argentina.
3
Likewise, infant 
and maternal mortality is higher compared to comparator countries.  Maternal mortality has plateau with 
unsafe abortion as the single most important contributor (27% in 2003) to maternal deaths.  In addition, 
teenage pregnancies, although slowly decreasing, remain common (accounting for 14% of all 
pregnancies). 
 
A
number of unfinished health agendas remain.  First, Argentina is characterized by high regional 
inequity of health outcomes.  For instance, the infant mortality rate is three times higher in some 
provinces than in Buenos Aires, and the gap for maternal mortality is even more pronounced with 
provinces such as La Rioja, and Jujuy, showing almost twelve times the level of Buenos Aires City (See 
Annex 1, Table 10). 
 
Second, the preventable burden of disease from non-communicable diseases is exceedingly high. It is 
estimated that around 59,000 lives could be saved in Argentina with adequate health promotion, illness 
prevention or early detection of the most common non-communicable diseases.  This includes decreases 
in tobacco use, which would reduce the rates of cardiovascular diseases and hospitalizations from 
myocardial infarction; improvements in diet and physical activity that can prevent type 2 diabetes among 
those at high risk in a short space of time, producing improved levels of blood pressure, blood glucose, 
cholesterol and triglycerides (lowering a person’s serum cholesterol concentration results in quick and 
substantial protection from heart disease)
4
.
The major risk factors for chronic diseases are an unhealthy 
diet, physical inactivity, and tobacco use.   
 
Third, there is also an unfinished agenda for communicable diseases. While immunization rates in the 
last two years have exceeded 90 percent, this is only a recent achievement that needs to be sustained. 
3
LAC basic health indicators WHO/PAHO 2004 
4
Benefits are related to age: a 10% reduction in serum cholesterol in men aged 40 can result in a 50% reduction in 
heart disease, while at age 70 there is on average a 20% reduction. Benefits can be realized quickly 
–
after two years 
–
with full benefits coming after five years (Source: WHO report of Chronic diseases 2005). 
Page  3
3
Tuberculosis incidence is higher than in comparable Latin American countries, and DOTS program
5
coverage is still relatively low at 64%. Treatment for HIV/AIDS patients is universal, but it is estimated 
that there are still many undiagnosed cases. Vertical transmission of HIV and Chagas disease has not yet 
been eliminated. And STDs are not being diagnosed and treated systematically, resulting in excessive 
morbidity as shown by a high congenital syphilis rate. The hemolytic-uremic syndrome caused by 
contaminated meat products is an important cause of preventable morbidity and mortality among children. 
Argentina also has had cases of emerging infectious diseases such as Hantavirus as well as other vector-
borne pathologies. Almost three million people are affected by Chagas disease, most of them from the 
poorest provinces of the North-Eastern (NOA) and North-Western (NEA) provinces
6
.
Health Sector Organization:
 Historically, the health sector in Argentina has been highly fragmented. 
More than half of the population (52 percent) is served through the formal social security system (for the 
formal sector workforce and their families), with the public and private sector providing services for 39 
percent and 9 percent of the population, respectively
7
.
The social health insurance system is further 
fragmented into hundreds of insurers, not all of them regulated by the Health Superintendence which, by 
law, has no regulatory power over private health insurers. 
 
In addition to this horizontal fragmentation, Argentina’s federal structure assigns most health 
responsibilities (operational and policy) to the provinces.  While this allows for greater efficiency and 
local adaptation in the delivery of individual health services, it has posed a complex challenge for national 
health policy formulation and implementation.  The National Ministry of Health (MSN) is responsible for 
sector coordination (through the Federal Health Council, COFESA
8
), setting and enforcing quality 
standards and regulations, as well as the traditional areas of national public health (e.g. disease 
monitoring). But, before the crisis of 2002, it had limited legal and administrative influence over 
provincial health sector policy as it lacked the tools to influence provincial policy from the national level. 
 
Crisis and Response
:
The economic and social crisis of 2002 required an immediate response from 
the national Government, given that the share of the population without formal health insurance coverage 
increased as formal employment declined.  Such increased demand, coupled with sharply higher poverty 
and the inability of large parts of the population to afford basic medicines, put provincial health systems 
under great pressure at a time in which most Provinces were in a financial crisis. The national 
Government responded, with international financial support, with an Emergency Health Program which 
consisted of national provision of essential drugs (
Remediar
 program) as well as basic inputs (e.g. 
vaccines, fortified milk, anti-retroviral drugs) to the strapped public provincial health systems.  The rapid 
and effective emergency response of the national Government ensured a continued provision of health 
services to the poor during the crisis and resulted in a quick reversal of the worsening of health indicators 
(see Annex 1, Annex 12, Annex 17).   
 
The National Government also introduced important health policy reforms in the direct aftermath of 
the crisis.  For example, the MSN substantially revised the drugs policy to increase the availability of 
generic drugs in the country.  Similarly, it passed the Sexual and Reproductive Rights Law which 
5
DOTS (Directly Observed Treatment, Short course) is a new treatment strategy for TB that aims to address five 
components: i) political commitment to sustain TB control, ii) detection of infectious cases using sputum smear 
microscopy, iii) a standardized, short-course chemotherapy regimen of six months, with direct observation of 
treatment, iv) a reliable supply of high quality drugs, and v) information systems for monitoring and reporting of 
treatment outcomes. It has proven both effective and economical.   
6
NOA: North West Provinces, and NEA: North East Provinces. 
7
Information from the SSS, MSN and CEDI (2002) for coverage of OSN/OSP and PAMI by province, from “The 
Health Sector in Argentina”, WB report No. 26144-AR, July 21, 2003. 
8
National Health Council is abbreviated as COFESA by its acronyms in Spanish 
Page  4
4
provided the basis for a much needed policy and regulatory framework as Argentina had one of the lowest 
levels of family planning among middle-income countries in the region. 
 
The Bank supported the
 Government’s crisis response through a restructuring of Bank operations (in 
the health sector and beyond) to purchase and distributes vital health inputs to the Provinces (total of US$ 
140 Million over the period 2002 to 2005; see Annex 17).  
 
Government’s Health Sector Reform Program
:
The Government’s health policy response to the 
crisis resulted in a much broader Health Sector Reform Program (HSRP) as formulated in the Federal 
Health Plan (approved in March 2004). Development of this plan was made possible by the leadership 
provided by the national Government during the crisis and its immediate aftermath, which revitalized the 
COFESA as an effective coordinating mechanism between the federal and provincial levels.  Broadly 
speaking, the Federal Health Plan has two main pillars: 
 
Plan Nacer.
 
The national Government – with support from COFESA – launched a maternal-child 
health insurance program (
Plan Nacer
).  This program was designed to respond to the immediate health 
care needs of the poor but at the same time introduced major incentives for structural reform in the 
provider-consumer relationship at the provincial level.  Such structural change was spurred by the 
introduction of results-based funding provided by the national Government to provinces. Under this 
program, the MSN provides transfers to the provincial Governments based on service-delivery results in 
mother-and-child health care services for the uninsured poor.  The introduction of such conditional 
transfers between the Nation and the Provinces was a first in the sector and has proven to be substantially 
altering governance within the sector.  The Bank supported 
Plan Nacer
’s structural reforms in the 
national-provincial incentive relationship through a Provincial-Maternal-Child-Health Adjustment Loan 
(PMCHSAL; Ln71990-AR-2003) and the introduction of the program for the poor and uninsured through 
an Adaptable Program Loan (APL1) with the first phase having been rolled-out in the poorest nine 
Provinces.  The second, and final, phase of the Bank’s support to 
Plan Nacer
 would support roll-out in 
the fifteen remaining provinces. Implementation of 
Plan Nacer
 has been very successful to date (see the 
PAD of APL2; AR-P095515). 
 
Essential Public Health Functions and Programs:
 
The second pillar of the Health Sector Reform 
Program, closely linked to the introduction of 
Plan Nacer
,
rests on the 
Nation reassuming its stewardship 
and regulatory functions with respect to Essential Public Health Functions and Programs
 (see Box 1 for 
explanations).  The HSRP recognizes the strategic importance of public health 
functions
 (such as 
monitoring, surveillance, and health promotion) to reducing the burden of communicable diseases and 
preventing the non-communicable cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases, diabetes 
and hypertension. Well-functioning stewardship—including robust public health surveillance—forms the 
foundation of a public health system by providing information on disease outbreaks and patterns that 
Argentine policy-makers at National and Provincial level need to make better decisions about the efficient 
and effective allocation of limited resources. Communicable disease surveillance leads to timely 
responses to disease outbreaks, which in turn save lives, reduce morbidity and disability, and in some 
cases protect against economic shocks.  Both the national and the provincial level have stewardship roles 
in the health system and in thus carrying out public health programs. One of the issues in Argentina is that 
these roles have not been clearly defined. In the past the national level has not played an important role in 
the health system but has recently become much more dynamic.  The HSRP defines these roles more 
clearly, including competencies for each function, and development of an accreditation system to assure 
that the functions are being carried out. 
 
Page  5
5
2. Objectives 
 
The project development objectives are to increase the coverage of ten prioritized Public Health 
Programs; reduce population’s exposure to principal risk factors associated with collective illness; and 
improve the stewardship role and appropriate regulatory environment of Nation’s public health system. 
The Project aims to support Argentina’s Federal Health Plan and its objectives to reduce mortality and 
morbidity associated with collective illness. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank’s involvement in supporting the Essential Public Health Functions and Programs Project is 
justified on three grounds.  First, the Project is a natural continuation of the Bank’s support to Argentina 
over the past several years.  The Bank has played an important role in supporting Argentina during the 
economic crisis (through the Emergency Health Program), transitioning out of the crisis and 
implementing key policy actions for improving health system performance (Maternal-Child Health 
Insurance Sector Adjustment Loan).  The proposed Project would also naturally build on the work begun 
by the VIGIA project (which focused on public health surveillance and health promotion at the central 
level) while introducing performance-based incentive systems closely aligned with the Maternal Child 
Health Insurance APL1 and 2 that support 
Plan Nacer
.
The proposed project draws substantially on the 
recommendations of the 2003 sector analysis
9
which included the recommendation to protect and 
strengthen priority public health programs within a solid framework of stewardship, regulation and sector 
dialogue. 
 
Second, the Bank brings technical know-how on a variety of organizational arrangements and 
financial instruments in the design of effective essential public health functions and programs.  This 
includes instruments to: (i) improve the quality, efficiency of allocation and effectiveness of public health 
programs; (ii) establish community-driven development initiatives; (iii) introduce performance-based 
financing schemes for supporting incentives to improve priority public health programs in the Provinces; 
(iv) target and tailor plans for vulnerable sectors of the population, such as indigenous peoples; and (v) 
design health surveillance and disease control practices and institutional capacity building for health 
surveillance at sub national levels.  Such technical know-how is more important than the, rather limited, 
financial contribution to the overall financing of EPHFP. 
 
Lastly, the proposed Project is closely aligned with corporate priorities related to the achievement of 
the MDGs in Argentina as well as to preventing the major causes of the burden of disease in Argentina.  It 
would directly contribute to the achievement of goals to reduce mortality from communicable diseases 
and AIDS, improve maternal health and empower women. These priorities have been endorsed by other 
multilateral and bilateral agencies active in Argentina (IADB, PAHO, and UNFPA).  Additionally, the 
project is in line with Bank’s policies and actions to strengthen preparation for a potential influenza 
pandemic.  The project includes financing for public health surveillance and the laboratory network. 
These are included in the Bank’s Global Program for Avian Influenza (GPAI).
10
 
9
Report No. 226144-AR- The Health Sector in Argentina: Current situation and options for improvement, Argentina, 
July21, 2003. 
10
 From: Global Program for Avian Influenza control and human pandemic preparedness and response (GPAI). Report No. 
34386 
Page  6
6
4. Description 
The proposed Essential Public Health Functions and Programs (EPHFP) Project
 
would support the 
second pillar of Argentina’s Health Sector Reform Program outlined above: specifically, ten prioritized 
functions
 and ten prioritized 
programs
 (see Table 2. below).  The Project’s objective would be to increase 
the coverage of ten prioritized Public Health Programs, reduce the population’s exposure to principal risk 
factors associated with collective illness, and improve the stewardship and appropriate regulatory 
environment of Nation’s public health system.  This would contribute to reducing mortality and morbidity 
in Argentina. 
 
Table 2.  Essential Public Health Functions and Programs 
 
Essential Public Health Functions 
Key Public Health Programs 
Monitoring and evaluation 
 
Immunizations 
Surveillance / disease control 
 
Tuberculosis 
Health promotion 
 
AIDS/STDs 
Social participation 
 
Vector-borne diseases 
Regulation  
Reproductive 
health 
Policy-making 
 
Life-style related diseases 
Equity promotion 
 
Safe blood supply 
Human resource development 
 
Emerging infections 
Quality assurance 
 
Emergencies and disasters 
Public health research 
 
Border Public Health Programs 
Emergencies and disasters 
 
 
The proposed Project would aim to support the identified essential functions and essential programs 
through an integrated approach required by Argentina’s federal structure. Component 1 would aim to 
support the essential public health 
functions
 both at the national and provincial level.  National and 
provincial activities would span the full range of providing technical assistance and equipment to improve 
monitoring, surveillance, policy formulation etc. 
 
Components 2 and 3 would, jointly, support the delivery of essential public health 
programs
.
Component 2 would, at the national level, support the management and purchasing of inputs
(which are 
then distributed to the provinces) for the essential programs, while component 3 would support the actual 
delivery
of
programs by financing operating costs at the provincial level.  Under the system supported by 
this Project, core inputs for provincial essential program delivery  (such as vaccines) would be purchased 
at the national level for scale economy reasons under component 2.  Bank disbursement would be 
performance-linked with the pace (and, potentially, amount) of input financing depending on the Nation 
effectively monitoring provincial health supply information systems. 
 
The design of component 3 emulates the results-based financing mechanism and incentive system that 
has been introduced through 
Plan Nacer
,
which is supported through the Bank’s Maternal-Child-Health 
Investment Adaptable Program Loans (and highlighted in the pending new HNP strategy of the Bank
11
).  
Under this component the Nation would offer provinces the financing of the operating costs of a specified 
number of activities that are necessary for essential program delivery.  Provinces would provide lists of 
executed activities (e.g. the number of immunizations, number of fumigation campaigns) to the Nation for 
reimbursement, with such lists being regularly checked by an external concurrent auditor.  The Nation 
11
 World Bank Strategy for Health, Nutrition and Population Results: Background Note for a Briefing to the Committee on 
Development Effectiveness on the Preparation of the New Bank HNP Strategy. May 2006. 
Page  7
7
would then reimburse Provinces according to pre-established and cost-efficient prices for such activities.  
Annually, ceilings for the total amount of such reimbursements would be established, depending on the 
level of program coverage in each province.  From the provincial perspective, such financing would be 
very attractive since such activities are currently financed entirely from the provincial budgets. 
 
To avoid creating perverse incentives for the provinces, the Nation and the Provinces would agree in 
annual performance agreements on threshold values for four indicators (e.g. immunization coverage, key 
diseases picked up by surveillance coverage) that would act as triggers for continued national financing of 
provincial activities.  Such indicator values would be set to guarantee that provinces are indeed 
expanding
 
program coverage 
–
and not merely substituting national for provincial financing.  If a specific indicator 
of program expansion is not met after two years of program implementation, that would trigger a 25 
percent reduction in the annual total amount of financing available from the Nation for that province’s 
activities.  Hence, a province that failed to meet all of the four indicator targets would not be eligible for 
further financing under this component. 
 
From the national perspective, the financing mechanism of component 3 would support several 
strategic goals.  First, monitoring of provincial activities (and not only inputs sent to the province 
financed by component 2) would significantly improve.  Second, given that provinces would send lists of 
executed activities for reimbursement which would be continuously monitored by an external auditor, 
accountability of provincial program delivery would be fostered.  Third, given that provinces would 
establish specific results targets in the annual performance agreements and that financing will be linked to 
such targets, all provinces will have a strong incentive to increase overall essential program coverage in 
Argentina.   
 
5. Financing- 
to be finalized during appraisal
:
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 730 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
220 
 Total 
950 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The proposed project supports public health functions and 10 priority cost-effective public health 
programs (10PHP) which would improve stewardship through component 1 (investments); required 
supplies for the 10PHP through component 2 (supplies), and a small percentage of the implementation 
expenditures for 10 PHP at provincial level, through financing PHAs to Provinces (component 3). 
 
Institutional arrangements
:
The proposed project would be implemented by the MSN, through the 
Secretary of Sanitary Programs and National Directors and Chiefs of Programs involved with the selected 
Programs and Functions. The MSN is legally responsible for coordinating health policy and programs 
related to this project. Coordination will be carried out through a small coordination unit (CU) with not 
more than 15 staff consultants, created in the MSN under the Secretary of Sanitary Programs. The CU 
would be supported by a Purchasing Unit of PHAs (PU) which will be responsible for conducting the 
implementation of performance agreements with Provinces and making the decisions regarding financial 
flows for component 3, including the certification of PHA payments. The CU would also be supported by 
Page  8
8
the UFI-S, a MSN unit specialized in financial management and procurement procedures for all 
multilateral projects being implemented by the Ministry (see details in Annex 6 and 7).  
 
The CU would be responsible for assuring that all technical, financial and administrative aspects 
of the project are adequately implemented by Provinces. The CU will be the point of daily contact with 
the Bank for project implementation. It will be staffed by a Manager appointed by the Minister of Health, 
and about 10 technical experts recruited for technical aspects related to the ten selected Programs and 
public health functions of the project. Additional occasional staffing needs would be met through short-
term consulting contracts. CU staff will be engaged to assure the Provincial monitoring, evaluation, 
programming, and relationships functions. The project would finance consultant costs for the Purchasing 
Unit of PHAs up to 15 people; such services would become progressively mainstreamed into MSN’s and 
participating Provinces’ own procedures as Bank financing ceased. Procurement of purchases and 
investments would be executed by UFI-S following Bank procedures.   
 
In parallel, the Ministries of Health of each participating province (MSP) will have legal 
responsibility for implementing the PHAs, for use of inputs under Component 2, and for adequate 
management at the Provincial level of both functions and programs of public health.  Each Province will 
carry out this work through a Provincial Coordination Unit (PCU). Each PCU would be staffed with two 
persons from whom the MSP, as the head of the Project, would obtain project technical, financial and 
administrative support. The PCU would be responsible for project execution as agreed with the national 
MSN.  
 
Implementation Arrangements
:
The MSN/CU would have overall responsibility for assuring that all 
components were implemented as planned. It would have direct full implementation responsibility for 
Components 1, 2, 3, and 4.  
 
Agreements
:
Implementation of project Components 2, 3 and 4 would be governed by:  
 
·
A
letter of intent to participate in the project. All letters would be signed by the participating 
Provinces by Negotiations. The purpose of this letter is to ensure full ownership by participant 
Provinces, as well as a budget signal for the Project. [
A
draft model of the letter was  included for the 
QER
.]
·
Umbrella Agreements between the MSN and participating MSPs, covering all technical, financial, 
administrative, social (including indigenous people), environmental, and fiduciary aspects of 
provincial participation in the program.  This would include, inter alia, the provincial program goals, 
commitments from the MSP, establishment of agencies and their responsibilities, operational 
guidelines, and financial and auditing relationships among the MSN, MSP, and the Bank. The 
Umbrella Agreement would also include, as an annex, operational guidelines (“
reglamento 
operativo
”) containing a detailed description of the Activities defined by the Nomenclador, as well as 
standard details of all implementation contents and procedures contained in the Operations Manual 
that are of specific relevance for implementation at the provincial level.  
·
Annual Performance Agreements between the MSN and participating Provinces.  These would 
include the annual commitments between the MSN and the MSP pertaining to nationally procured 
inputs, technical assistance, and investment, the defined ceiling for activities, and the goals of specific 
indicators related to priority health programs in line with Triggers to be measured every two years, 
and the validated Public Health Activities Nomenclador. 
 
Operations Manual (OM)
 - The OM would detail procedures for monitoring of compliance with 
performance benchmarks, reporting, procurement, financial management, disbursement, and auditing 
procedures for each component. More information is found in Annex 6. An operational manual has been 
Page  9
9
prepared by the (MSN), and a draft 
version was presented for QER
..
A
final version would be submitted 
to the Bank at Appraisal, and is expected to be cleared by the Bank by Negotiations, including the final 
list of PHA with prices (the Nomenclador).  
 
Implementation Capacity:
 The MSN is well staffed to oversee the program in terms of experience 
and technical qualifications, developed through its implementation of other Bank-financed projects 
(particularly VIGIA), and the preparation and implementation of policy actions under the “
Plan Nacer
”
project. The MSN has been evaluated by Financial Management and Procurement Assessments and found 
to have an adequate level of experience, staff and systems in financial management and procurement to 
meet Bank requirements (Annexes 6 and 7). The loan would finance some incremental specialized 
contractual staff, small equipment and operating costs to allow the performance of some additional 
functions associated with implementation of the program. 
 
Provincial ministries of health
 have varying degrees of technical experience with most of the priority 
public health programs, which is generally sufficient to form core technical staffs for their respective 
CUs, and respective project areas of action. They also have administrative staff who, with training and 
supervision, could undertake the administration and functions required to participate in this program, 
particularly in purchasing public health outputs and sanitary objectives. They would, however, need 
strong technical and administrative advice from the CU for the implementation of the project, particularly 
during the first year, which would be provided under the program. Provinces would be required to form 
PCUs with a minimum staff (two persons) as part of their Umbrella Agreement. The loan would provide 
financing for further in-service training in subjects related to the program and consultations on specifics. 
The MSN/UFI-S would also conduct briefings and mentoring of PCU staff in financial management and 
procurement procedures, and continue to supervise provincial performance during implementation. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Commitment of Government to the proposed Project is high.  All current WB health projects are 
included in the  Health Sector Reform Program (Federal Health Plan), which was launched with 
unanimous support of COFESA, and enjoys an unprecedented level of ownership and political support 
from the National and provincial governments. The good implementation record of APL I (
Plan Nacer
), 
and recent preparation of its merged phases II and III with Bank financing, show the strong level of 
commitment of the National Government, MSN and Provincial Governments with the HSRP, as well as 
the high level of support to the Plan by COFESA. As a complement to 
Plan Nacer
,
this project supports 
and completes the Federal Health Plan. The Project has been presented to COFESA and received strong 
support from Provinces. 
 
Financial sustainability of project activities is likely given that Bank financial participation 
represents a relatively modest amount of the required funds for strengthening the stewardship functions 
and expanding the coverage of the ten selected essential public health programs.  Under component 1, a 
substantial part of Bank’s participation represents investments required only once in project’s life and 
would require current expenditures after the ending of the project which represent a small proportion of 
national health expenditures today.  Sustainability of the supplies financing under component 2 would be 
achieved by a declining Bank contribution to overall input costs with the purpose of ensuring a smooth 
transition of national financing.  The amount allocated for component 3 represents 0.4 % of provincial 
health expenditures (on average) which, through the results-based financing mechanisms, are nevertheless 
expected to significantly improve the essential public health program coverage rates. 
 
Page  10
10
As explained above, the Purchasing Unit at the national levels would be financed on a declining 
basis with the Government assuming at least 50 percent of the sustaining cost after the Mid term 
evaluation.   
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Three main 
lessons of experience were drawn from the Bank’s support for Argentina’s health 
sector over the past years, which were essential in the design of the EPHFP project:  
 
First, focusing reform on the social insurance system proved insufficient to address the health 
problems of the poor. While structural reforms were moderately successful before the crisis, coverage of 
the uninsured did not expand significantly, and after, reaching the uninsured became even a higher 
priority given the effect of the economic crisis, which caused 12 % of the insured to loose their health 
coverage. This loan, has the following mechanisms to target poorest population: i) “public good” 
condition of the PHA – universal provision, ii) important externalities of public health programs 
(vaccines, tobacco, etc), even if the poorest don’t receive services, iii) selected programs are cost-
effective and highly oriented to reduce most important Argentina’s BOD affecting the poorest, iv) self 
target of the key PHP, such as TB or Chagas disease, which majority affect the poorest.   
 
Second, previous projects and reforms did not reach the poorest Provinces where most of the 
uninsured live. The Government strategy for introducing the EPHP is universal (all Provinces).  
Finally, the Bank’s experience in supporting Argentina’s health sector, indicate the need to more 
closely link Bank financing to actual results, output (actual delivery of services to the population) and 
outcomes (improvement of final or intermediary health indicators). APL I introduced significant 
innovations in output based lending, which are showing excellent effects in their almost two years of 
implementation since project effectiveness. The EPHFP has take advantage of that experience on its 
design.  
Lessons Learned from other projects not financed by the World Bank (
under elaboration
): 
 
On August 2003 the MSN created a National Coordination Unit for the “healthy network 
municipalities” for supporting municipalities in developing and implementing its health promotion 
strategies and activities. Ending 2005, the healthy municipalities’ networks is integrated by 124 
municipalities, and have developed relevant activities in health promotion and prevention, vector control 
and waste disposal. Important lesson from those activities, regarding outputs and monitoring systems are 
being reflected in the design of Component three. PAHO is one of the most important supporters of this 
initiative.  
 
A
decentralized Agency called SEDRONAR has developed a very well known and feasible 
system to monitor results, and impact of promotional and preventive activities, based on biannual health 
surveys, which solves administrative data fragilities from annual measures. This experience has been 
utilized in the design of monitoring indicators, and will be a milestone for impact evaluation protocol, as 
well as for Mid term evaluation. 
 
The REMEDIAR project, financed by the IADB has the purpose of improve the delivery and utilization 
of generic drugs (medicines) for primary health care facilities. This project has developed a remarkable 
system to supervise its correct storage, delivery and utilization on medical facilities. This experience will 
Page  11
11
be used for the development of supervision and monitoring system for Component two by the MSN on 
Public Health and medicines purchased for the public health programs.     
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X 
] 
[] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[X] 
[ ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
In order to address social issues in an appropriate form, the project is using the results of a broad 
social assessment carried out at the national level, as well as those of special surveys on the health 
conditions of indigenous peoples in participating Provinces.  
 
In compliance with OP 4.10, an indigenous people screening has been carried out. The government 
prepared an Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (IPPF) prior to appraisal   A draft IPPF has been 
presented to the Indigenous Participation Council (IPC) of INAI. The feedback provided by the IPC has 
been taken into account for a revised IPPF which will be submitted for review and no objection by the 
Bank.  Finally, specific social assessments and free, prior and informed consultations will be carried out 
in the relevant screened Provinces leading to obtain community support, as well as the preparation and 
implementation of the corresponding IPPs. 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
1. 
“Best Buys” and Priorities for action in Developing Countries, Disease Control Priorities Project, 
April 2006. 
2. 
“Acta 5” Consejo Federal de la Salud, Junio de 2006. 
3. 
Plan Federal de Salud. 
4. 
Documento Conceptual del Proyecto (Preliminary Version). Ministry of Health May 2006. 
5. 
“Resolución Ministerial 632/2006” (Ministerio de Salud de la Nación) that refers to the creation 
of the “Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto” to manage and deal with the Project operations. 
Ministry of Health. May, 2006. 
6. 
Plan Operativo Anual de: Vigilancia Epidemiológica, Laboratorios, Promoción/No transmisibles, 
Investigación, Regulación y Fiscalización, Municipios Saludables,;PAI;Vectores (Chagas, 
Dengue, Rabia, Leishmaniosis),TBC,,Sangre;Sida,SSyPR, Emergencias y Desastres 
7. 
Table of consolidated costing by component. Ministry of Health. May, 2006.  
8. 
Matrix of indicators to select. List of Eligible Actions (component 3).Ministry of Health.  
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on 
the disputed areas 
Page  12
12
9.  List of supplies to be financed by the component 2 of the program. Ministry of Health. May, 
2006. 
10. Safeguards (Indigenous Community, Social Development and Environmental Assessment). 
11. Model of a province-
federal government convenant for the EPHFP “Convenio de Adhesión”. 
Ministry of Health. February 2006. 
12. Modelo de “Convenio Marco”. Ministry of Health. February, 2006. 
13. Propossal of a formula to distribute the supplies to the provinces. Ministry of Health.  
14. Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Argentine Republic. The World 
Bank, Washington DC 
15. Project Appraisal Document Provincial Maternal Child Health Investment Project. The World 
Bank, June 2006. 
16. Project Appraisal Document Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control Project. The World 
Bank, July 1999. 
17. Preventing chronical diseases: a vital investment. World Health Organization. 2005. 
18. Dying too young: Addressing Premature Mortality and III Health Due to Non-Communicable 
Diseases and Injuries in the Russian Federation. Europe and Central Asia Region. Human 
Development Deparment. Russia Country Management Unit. World Bank.  
19. Health needs assessment at a glance: Practical Guide. Written and compiled by Sue Cavanagh 
and Keith Chadwick. Health Development Agency.  
20. Glossary on the World Trade Organisation and public health: part 2. Ronald Labonte and 
Matthew Sanger. September 26, 2005. 
21. Trade and public health: facing the challenges of globalization. J. Epidemiol. Community Health, 
August 1, 2006 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Fernando Lavadenz 
Title:   
Tel: (202) 473-1463 
Fax:  
Email: flavadenz@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
