Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7412-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Essential Public Health Functions and Programs Project) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 12, 2007  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7412-AR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 12, 2007, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred and twenty million 
Dollars ($220,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 
of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 
IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
determined by the Bank from time to time.   
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
Page  3
-
2
-
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.07.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in  Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) 
a
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts 
required to pay any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) 
of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for 
the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III
—PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project through MSN with the assistance of 
the Participating Provinces in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
Page  4
-
3
-
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
Any Participating Province shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under its Umbrella Agreement and/or any of its Annual 
Performance Agreements, and the Borrower shall have failed to exercise 
its remedies under such Agreements, in which case the Bank may only 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account for expenditures incurred for Part III of the Project 
as payments to the relevant Participating Province(s). 
 
(b) 
Any of the Emergency Decrees have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in 
the opinion of the Bank, the implementation of the respective Action Plan, 
in which case the Bank may only suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for 
expenditures incurred with respect to the affected Action Plan. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement occurs, with 
respect to both Actions Plans, after notice of the event relating to the 
second affected Action Plan has been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in Section 4.01 (a) occurs for all Participating 
Provinces and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the 
event for the last of the affected Participating Provinces has been given by 
the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no 
case later than the eighteen (18) m
onths after the Bank’s approval of the Loan 
which expire on May 21, 2008.  
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Production. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
C1109ADA, Buenos Aires 
Argentina 
 
Cable: 
    Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA 
121942-AR 
 
(5411) 43498815 
Baires 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Felisa Miceli 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Felipe S
áez 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase the coverage of the Priority 
Public Health Programs; (b) to reduce the relevant population’s exposure to principal risk 
factors associated with collective illness; and (c) to improve the stewardship role and 
appropriate regulatory environment of the Borrower’s public health system. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part I
:
Strengthening of Public Health Functions
Strengthening the Borrower’s stewardship and capacity to carry out the Priority 
Public Health Functions necessary for improving the Priority Public Health Programs, 
including: 
 
(a) 
at the national level: 
 
(i) 
improvement of health intelligence by strengthening: (A) 
epidemiological surveillance and response; (B) vital statistics; (C) 
surveillance of NCD risk factors through continual surveillance 
and a second national risk factor health survey; (D) information 
systems for selected public health programs (immunizations, 
tuberculosis, AIDS); and (E) the public health laboratory network; 
 
(ii) 
strengthening MSN’s policy-making and planning capacity;  
 
(iii) 
strengthening the regulatory framework for epidemiologic 
surveillance and for the Priority Public Health Programs;  
 
(iv) 
development and implementation of a strategic plan for social 
communication in health, which includes the cultural adequacy of 
the Priority Public Health Programs for indigenous peoples; 
 
(v) 
strengthening health promotion and primary prevention of 
prevalent diseases through social communication strategies, 
education and citizen participation, including studies of habits, and 
behavioral changes for specific populations; 
 
(vi) 
promotion of traditional experiences of health promotion of 
indigenous peoples, especially from those communities with 
traditional health knowledge, attitudes, and practices for the 
prevention of chronic diseases; and 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(vii) 
provision of technical assistance to local institutions, health 
facilities, and community groups to strengthen their capacity to set 
up and carry out disease prevention, health promotion and health 
research; and 
 
(b)
 
at the provincial level: 
 
(i) 
strengthening the Participating Provinces
’
capacity: (A) to carry 
out the Project and the Priority Public Health Programs; (B) to 
negotiate and carry out the Annual Performance Agreements; and 
(C) to carry out the Healthy Municipalities Strategy; 
 
(ii) 
the development and implementation of accreditation mechanisms 
for provincial public health programs and functions 
complementary to the Project, based on annual evaluation of the 
performance of such programs; and 
 
(iii) 
formulation and implementation of IPPs. 
 
Part II: Medical Supplies Management, Priority Public Health Programs Improvements 
and Readiness for Health Emergencies, Natural Disasters, and Avian Influenza Control 
and Human Pandemic
(a) 
Strengthening medical supplies management and performance monitoring 
of the Priority Public Health Programs through: 
 
(i) 
the development of a monitoring system to track storage, 
provision, utilization, and loss of supplies in the Provinces; 
 
(ii) 
the improvement in supervision and accountability of resource 
allocation; and 
 
(iii) 
the provision of Eligible Medical Supplies of Priority Public 
Health Programs. 
 
(b)
 
Improvement of the Borrower’s preparedness and response to a potential 
avian influenza epidemic, other health emergencies and natural disasters, through: 
 
(i) 
implementation, if necessary, of the Avian Influenza Pandemic 
Action Plan; and 
 
(ii) 
implementation, if necessary, of the Health Emergency and/or 
National Disasters Preparedness Action Plan. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Part III
:
Priority Public Health Programs Expansion
(a) 
Implementation of PHAs consisting of, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
public health surveillance activities, and other health intelligence 
functions; 
 
(ii) 
disease control activities; 
 
(iii) 
monitoring of compliance with national and provincial norms and 
standards including training and supervisory activities to improve 
public health quality; 
 
(iv)  health promotion, communication, education and social 
participation activities with an emphasis on healthy lifestyles; 
 
(v) 
local distribution of key medical supplies for public health 
programs; and 
 
(vi) 
regulation activities carried out by the MSPs. 
 
Part IV
:
Management and Governance of the Project
(a) 
Strengthening the MSN and MSP staff through the provision of technical 
assistance, information technology design services, and equipment. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out in depth Project evaluations, including an impact evaluation 
of the Project. 
 
(c) 
Developing and monitoring of minimum performance standards of the 
Priority Public Health Programs, including training to selected MSN and MSP staff in 
collecting, monitoring and reporting information, including outcomes. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN: 
 
(a) 
maintain during the execution of the Project, within MSN, a national 
health services coordination unit (CU) to manage Project implementation on behalf of 
MSN with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and staffed with a 
coordinator, technical experts (including management-for-results specialized staff) and 
other personnel in number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
(b) 
cause the Participating Provinces, through the Umbrella Agreements, to 
maintain during the execution of the Project, within the respective MSPs, technical staff 
in a number and with qualifications and experience acceptable to both the Borrower and 
the Bank.  
 
2. 
For the purposes of implementing Part III. (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
through MSN, monitor the implementation of the PHAs and compliance with the PHA 
Performance Indicators, on a periodic basis, all under terms acceptable to the Bank.  
 
3. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, jointly with the Bank and not later than 
thirty months after the Effective Date, review the PHAs, the PHA Eligible Operational 
Costs and the Unit Costs, and adjust them as necessary, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.  
 
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of subparagraph (a) the Borrower 
may, through MSN, propose the Bank additional reviews of the PHAs, the Eligible 
Operational Costs and the Unit Costs earlier or later than as set forth in such 
subparagraph, and after such reviews adjust them as necessary, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
4. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall, through MSN, carry out the Project in accordance with an operational 
manual, satisfactory to the Bank, containing, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the terms of reference, functions and responsibilities for the personnel of 
the CU and the MSPs responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project; 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
the criteria, detailed rules and procedures for PHA implementation, the 
PHA Eligible Operational Costs, the Unit Costs, and the system to monitor compliance of 
the PHA Performance Indicators; 
 
(c) 
procedures for procurement of goods, works and services, as well as for 
financial management and audits of the Project; 
 
(d) 
the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
(including the PHA Performance Indicators); 
 
(e) 
draft models for the Umbrella Agreements and Annual Performance 
Agreements; 
 
(f) 
flow and disbursement arrangements of Project funds, including the 
reimbursement mechanisms of the PHA Eligible Operational Costs based on Unit Costs; 
 
(g) 
the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework, including criteria to ensure 
adequate and culturally appropriate access by indigenous peoples to the Project; and 
 
(h) 
the Environmental Action Plan. 
 
5. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, establish and thereafter maintain 
operative guidelines (the Provincial Operative Guidelines), satisfactory to the Bank, 
which shall contain those chapters of the Operational Manual of direct concern to the 
Participating Provinces and their role in the implementation of the Project. Said operative 
guidelines shall be an annex to the Umbrella Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower, through MSN, and each of the Participating Provinces.  
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through 
MSN or otherwise, not amend, waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or the 
Provincial Operative Guidelines, or any provision thereof.  In case of any conflict 
between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual or the 
Provincial Operative Guidelines, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
6. 
For the purposes of  implementing  the Project the Borrower shall, through MSN: 
 
(a) 
enter into an agreement (the Umbrella Agreement) with each Participating 
Province, setting forth the technical, financial, administrative, safeguard and fiduciary 
aspects of the national and provincial participation in the implementation of the Project; 
 
(b) 
every year, starting immediately after the Effective Date for the first year 
of the Project, and on January 1 thereafter, enter into a performance agreement (the 
Annual Performance Agreement) with each Participating Province, setting forth inter 
alia: (i) PHAs; (ii) the maximum amount to be made available to the Participating 
Province; (iii) Unit Costs; (iv) work programs and resource requirements for the 
Page  12
-
11
-
implementation of the PHAs and IPPs when applicable; and (v) activities of the IPPs 
when applicable; all on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;  
 
(c) 
cause each Participating Province, when applicable in accordance with the 
provisions of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework (through the respective 
Umbrella Agreement) to carry out the applicable Indigenous Peoples Plan in accordance 
with its terms; 
 
(d) 
cause each Participating Province to take all necessary actions to enable 
the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Sections I, II, and IV of this Schedule, 
including those set forth or referred to in the General Conditions, in respect of the 
carrying out of the Project as it may apply to the assistance provided by the respective 
Participating Province; and 
 
(e) 
(i) exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each Umbrella 
Agreement and each Annual Performance Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and 
(ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Umbrella Agreement and/or Annual Performance 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
7. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, make available the PHA Eligible 
Operational Costs to a Participating Province, only after said Participating Province has 
fulfilled the requirements set forth in the Loan Agreement and the Operational Manual in 
order to become a Participating Province. Such PHA Eligible Operational Costs shall be 
made, inter alia, under the following terms and conditions: (i) the maximum amount to be 
made available annually to each Participating Province shall be set forth in the respective 
Annual Performance Agreement and will be calculated in accordance with the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual; (ii) the Participating Province shall comply with the 
PHA Performance Indicators set forth in the respective Umbrella Agreement and  Annual 
Performance Agreement, and inform MSN of the compliance thereof; (iii) no amounts of 
PHA Eligible Operating Costs shall be made available by MSN after thirty months from 
the Effective Date to a Participating Province unless the MSN has verified, based on the 
report provided by the Concurrent Auditor, that the PHA Performance Indicators set forth 
for the first 24 months of Project implementation have been met by such Province.  In the 
event of non-compliance with any of the PHA Performance Indicators, the amounts 
allocated shall thereafter be reduced on the basis of a 25% reduction for each 
Performance Indicator not complied by the respective Participating Province; and (iv) in 
the event that by 36 months after the Effective Date, any of the Participating Provinces 
which had not met the PHA Performance Indicators as required in paragraph (iii) above, 
shall then have met the respective non-performing PHA Performance Indicators, the 
payment of PHA Eligible Operating Costs will be accordingly increased. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of the verification procedure referred to in (iii) above and 
of Part II (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall, through MSN, appoint under terms of 
Page  13
-
12
-
reference satisfactory to the Bank and thereafter maintain during the execution of Part II 
(a) and Part III of the Project, an independent auditing firm with qualifications and terms 
of contracting satisfactory to the Bank (the Concurrent Auditor) responsible for 
performing inter alia verifications on: (i) the PHA Performance Indicators, and (ii) the 
establishment of the monitoring systems under Part II (a) of the Project, all in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN: 
 
(a) 
not later than November 15 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting November 15, 2007, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual 
implementation plan, each said plan to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the Project activities to be 
carried out by the Borrower, through MSN, during the calendar year following the 
presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the procurement plan for each said calendar year; 
and 
 
(b) 
thereafter implement each said annual implementation plan, approved by 
the Bank, in accordance with its terms. 
 
9. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, not later than January 31, 2008, create and 
thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, specific national budget line 
entries in its annual budget in order to record all expenditures of the Project. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational 
Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than two months after the end of the period covered by 
such report. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall, 
through MSN, prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MSN, have its Financial Statements audited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit 
of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
1. Goods, 
Non-
Consultants’ Services and Works.  
 All goods and works required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
3.
 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-
Consultants’ Services
and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods, non-
consultants’ services and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding which may, at the Borrower’s 
option be subject to Domestic Preference, as per paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods
,
Non consultants’ services and 
Works
.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-
consultants’ 
services and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which 
such methods may be used. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Procurement Method
(a) Limited International Bidding 
(b) National Competitive Bidding 
(c) Shopping 
(d) Direct Contracting 
3.
 
The following provisions shall apply to the procurement of goods, works and 
services (including consulting services): 
 
(a) 
Foreign and local service providers, consultants and suppliers shall not be 
required: (i) to register; or (ii) to establish residence in Argentina or in a Province; or (iii) 
enter into association with other national or international bidders as a condition for 
submitting bids or proposals. 
 
(b) 
In works, the price adjustment mechanism agreed upon between the Bank 
and the Borrower for National Competitive Bidding will apply.  
 
(c) 
Invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid opening, requests for 
expressions of interest, and contract award reports of all goods, works and services, 
including consultants, shall be published in the web page of ONC, in a manner acceptable 
to the Bank. The bidding period shall be counted from the date of publication of the 
invitation to bid or the bidding documents, whichever is later, to the date of bid opening. 
 
(d) 
Witness prices shall not be used as a parameter for a bid evaluation or 
contract award.  
 
(e) 
Bidders and consultants shall not be allowed to review or make copies of 
other
s
bidders’ bids or consultants’ proposals, as the case may be. 
 
(f) 
The Borrower shall: (i) supply the Bank’s publicly accessible Procurement 
Plans Execution System with the information contained in the initial Procurement Plan 
within 30 days after such plan has been approved by the Bank; and (ii) update the 
Procurement Plan at least biannually or as required to reflect the actual Project 
implementation needs and progress and supply the Bank’s Procurement Plans Execution 
System with the information contained in the updated Procurement Plan immediately 
thereafter. 
 
(g) 
A two-envelope system for procurement will not be used for procurement 
of goods, works and services (other than consultant services). 
 
(h) 
For contracts for goods, works and services, other than consulting 
services, “the most convenient” bid shall be the one that has been determined to be 
Page  16
-
15
-
substantially responsive and has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, provided 
that further the bidder is determined to be qualified to perform the contract satisfactorily. 
 
(i) 
The lowest evaluated bidder shall not be required to reduce its bid as a 
condition of contract award. 
 
(j) 
National Competitive Bidding procedures would be modified in order to 
make them identical to International Competitive Bidding procedures, exception made of 
the following features: (i) advertisement may be limited to the national press or official 
gazette, and the ONC website; (ii
)
the Borrower’s currency may be used for the purposes 
of bidding and payment; (iii) the bidding period (from the date of publication of the 
invitation to bid or the date that the documents are available, whichever is later, to the 
date of bid opening) may be reduced to 30 days; and (iv) the INCOTERM clause 
Delivery Duty Paid (DDP) may be used for the procurement of goods.
 
(k) 
Consultants shall not be required to submit bid or performance securities. 
 
(l) 
In information technology procurement, the Borrower’s criterion for 
determining the eligibility of computer manufacturers established in ETAP will not 
apply.  
 
(m) 
In medical supplies procurement, the Borrower will promote the signing 
of integrity pacts with suppliers as part of the procurement arrangements.  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Consultant’s Qualifications 
(b) Least-Cost Selection 
(c) Single Source 
(d) Comparison of qualifications of at 
least three individuals 
Page  17
-
16
-
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject 
to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of (a) Article II of the General Conditions, (b) this Section, and (c) such 
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from 
time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(1) Consultants services, Training, 
goods, non-consultants’ services and 
works (excluding those covered by 
Categories (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
below) 
 
67,300,000 100% 
 
(2) Eligible Medical Supplies: 
 
(a)  First Allocation 
 
(b) Second Allocation 
 
(c) Third Allocation 
 
(d) Fourth Allocation 
 
35,000,000 
 
27,000,000) 
 ) 
 24,000,000) 
 ) 
 4,000,000) 
 
100% 
 
100% of the applicable 
amount as per paragraph 
B.1. (b) (i) below 
 
(3) Project Operating Costs  
 
1,100,000 
 
85% 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Percentage of 
Page  18
-
17
-
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(4) Public Health Activities 
 
40,000,000 
100%  of the Unit Costs 
of the PHA Eligible 
Operational Costs paid 
by MSN to a 
Participating Province as 
per the terms of the 
respective Umbrella 
Agreement 
 
(5) Avian Influenza Pandemic 
Action Plan and Health Emergency 
and/or Natural Disasters 
Preparedness Action Plan 
 
20,000,000 
100% of costs of goods 
and services required for 
the respective Action 
Plan 
 
(6) Refund of Project Preparation 
Advance 
 
1,600,000 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 (a) of the 
General Conditions 
 
(7) Front-end Fee 
 
0 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions  
 
(8) Premia for Interest Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate Collars 
 
0
Amount due under 
Section 2.08 (c) of this 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
220,000,000 
 
(a) 
the term “Project Operating Costs” means the reasonable cost of recurrent 
expenditures of MSN and MSPs (including the CU)  in Project implementation 
(excluding PHAs) such as consumable items, utilities and supplies, travel costs for 
supervision in the field, which would not have been incurred absent the Project;  
 
(b) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services and for PHAs) incurred by MSN  to finance reasonable transportation costs and 
per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of training facilities, materials 
and equipment under the Project; and 
 
(c) 
the terms “First Allocation”, “Second Allocation”, “Third Allocation”, and 
“Fourth Allocation” mean the amounts allocated for expenditures for Eligible Medical 
Page  19
-
18
-
Supplies incurred until: (i) December 31, 2007 for the First Allocation, (ii) December 31, 
2008, and December 31, 2009 for the Second and Third Allocations, respectively, and 
(iii) the Closing Date for the Fourth Allocation. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 44,000,000  may be made for 
payments made prior to this date but after October 9, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures in 
respect of Categories (2) and (4);  
 
(b) 
(i) 
for expenditures made under Category (2) (b), (c) and (d) (Eligible 
Medical Supplies Second, Third and Fourth Allocations) as 
follows:  
 
(A) 
for the Second Allocation and Third Allocation unless the 
Concurrent Auditor has certified the number of Monitoring 
Systems installed during the preceding calendar year.  The 
maximum amounts to be disbursed in respect for each 
allocation shall be: 
 
(I) 
for the Second Allocation: $25,000,000 if 
Monitoring Systems have been installed and are 
operational in 6 Participating Provinces; 
$27,000,000 and any unwitdrawn amount of the 
First Allocation if Monitoring Systems have been 
installed and are operational in more than 6 
Participating Provinces; or $23,000,000 if 
Monitoring Systems have been installed and are 
operational in less than 6 Participating Provinces; 
and 
 
(II) 
for the Third Allocation: $21,000,000 if Monitoring 
Systems have been installed and are operational in 
12 Participating Provinces; $24,000,000 and any 
unwithdrawn amount of the First Allocation or 
Second Allocation if Monitoring Systems have been 
installed and are operational in more than 12 
Participating Provinces; or $18,000,000 if 
Monitoring Systems have been installed and are 
operational in more than 6 and less than 12 
Participating Provinces; and  
Page  20
-
19
-
(B) 
for the Fourth Allocation the Loan proceeds available in 
Category (2) and through reallocations from other 
Categories or other means approved by the Bank. 
 
(ii) 
For purposes of this subparagraph (b), Monitoring Systems means 
the systems to be installed by the Participating Provinces following 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank to monitor the use of 
medical supplies for three of the Priority Public Health Programs; 
 
(c) 
under Category (5) unless the respective Action Plan has been approved 
by the Bank; and 
 
(d)  
under Category (2), excluding the First Allocation, and (4) unless the 
Concurrent Auditor has been employed in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2.
 
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that, in the event that any of the Action 
Plans referred to in Parts II (b) (i) and (ii) of the Project are not carried out in whole or in 
part and any Loan proceeds allocated to Category (5) remain unwithdrawn by a date 30 
months after the Effective Date, the Bank may, at the request of the Borrower reallocate 
such amounts to Category (2) for the financing of Eligible Medical Supplies under the 
Fourth Allocation provided that Monitoring Systems have been installed in more than 20 
Participating Provinces. 
 
3. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning March 15, 2012  
 
through September 15, 2021 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
Page  22
-
21
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals 
made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, 
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated 
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each 
such amount. 
Page  23
-
22
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Action Plan” means any of the Avian Influenza Pandemic Action Plan or the 
Health Emergency and/or Natural Disasters Preparedness Action Plan. 
 
2. 
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. 
 
3. 
“Annual Performance Agreement” means each agreement referred to in Section I. 
6. (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Avian Influenza Pandemic Action Plan” means a plan for avian influenza control 
and human pandemic preparedness and response designed to assist in the 
prevention, containment, treatment, control and eradication of avian influenza. 
 
5. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Concurrent Auditor” means the independent auditing firm mentioned in Section 
I. 7. (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
8. 
“CU” means the unit referred to in Section I. 1. (a) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
9. 
“DOT” means directly observed treatment of tuberculosis. 
 
10. 
“Eligible Medical Supply” means any medical supply listed in the Operational 
Manual, which excludes pesticides and antiretrovirals. 
 
11. 
“Emergency Decree” means the decree or MSN’s resolution issued for the 
declaration of either an avian influenza health epidemic, emergency or a natural 
disasters emergency. 
 
12. 
“Environmental Action Plan” means the plan for health care waste management, 
and screening and carrying out of laboratory works set forth in the Operational 
Manual. 
 
13. 
“ETAP” means the set of technical standards applicable to public sector 
procurement of information technology, which is updated  from time to time by 
the Borrower’s Information Technology Office. 
Page  24
-
23
-
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
15. 
“Health Emergency and/or Natural Disasters Preparedness Action Plan” means a 
plan to address: (i) epidemic disease outbreaks other than avian flu; (ii) mass 
emergencies; and (iii) public health emergencies, caused by floods, earthquakes, 
twisters or other natural disasters, including measures for preparedness for 
subsequent emergencies. 
 
16. 
“Healthy Municipalities Strategy” means the strategy set forth in the MSN’s 
document entitled “
Municipios y Comunidades Saludables
”, dated November 
2004. 
 
17. 
“INCOTERMS” means the universally recognized set of definitions of 
international commercial terms developed by the International Chamber of 
Commerce (ICC) in Paris, France. 
 
18. 
“Indigenous Peoples Plan” or “IPP” means any of the plans prepared and carried 
out following the requirements of the Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework. 
 
19. 
“Indigenous Peoples Planning Framework” means the framework for preparation 
of Indigenous Peoples Plans by the relevant Participating Provinces set forth in 
the Operational Manual. 
 
20. “MSN” 
means 
Ministerio de Salud de la Nación
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Health. 
 
21. “MSP” 
means 
Ministerio de Salud Provincial 
(or its equivalent in each Province), 
each of the Borrower’s Participating Provinces’ Ministries of Health. 
 
22. 
“NCD” means Non-Communicable Diseases. 
 
23. “ONC” 
means 
Oficina Nacional de Contrataciones
,
the Borrower’s National 
 
Contracting Board operating under the 
Jefatura de Gabinete, 
the
 
Borrower’s 
 
Chief of Cabinet of Ministers Office. 
 
24. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section I. 4. of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and approved by the Bank on October 13, 2006. 
 
25. 
“Participating Province” means any Province or the Autonomus City of Buenos 
Aires (
Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires
)
that has fulfilled the requirements of 
the Loan Agreement and the Operational Manual to be eligible to participate and 
receive funds from the Project. 
 
Page  25
-
24
-
26. 
“PHA” or “Public Health Activity” means any public health activity aimed at 
improving and expanding the delivery of the Priority Public Health Programs and 
Priority Public Health Functions, which is eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Operational 
Manual. 
 
27.
 
“
PHA Eligible Operational Cost” means an operating cost of a PHA eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan on a Unit Cost basis in accordance with 
the provisions of the Operational Manual. 
 
28. 
“PHA Performance Indicator” means any of the following four indicators set forth 
in an Umbrella Agreement: immunization coverage, disease control as per 
established norms, tuberculosis cases receiving DOTs, and incremental 
membership as per the Healthy Municipalities Strategy. 
 
29. 
“Priority Public Health Function” means any of the following 10 functions to be 
carried out under the Project: monitoring and evaluation, surveillance and disease 
control, health promotion, social participation, regulation, policy-making, equity 
promotion, human resource development, quality assurance and public health 
research. 
 
30. 
“Priority Public Health Program” means any of the following 10 public health 
programs to be carried out under the Project: Immunizations, tuberculosis, AIDS 
and STD, vector-borne diseases, emerging diseases, safe blood supply, 
emergencies and disasters, non-communicable diseases and risk factors, border 
health, and reproductive health, and any other program as the Bank may agree. 
 
31. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
32. 
“Procurement Plan” means the  MSN procurement plan for the Project, dated 
October 9, 2006  and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines 
and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
33. 
“Procurement Plans Execution System” means the Bank’s information system for 
monitoring the procurement processes of Bank-financed projects in Argentina 
(http: // wbqa.latinvia.com). 
 
34. 
“Province” means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two of the 
Borrower’s Constitution, and the term “Provinces” means all of said political 
subdivisions. 
 
35. 
“Provincial Operative Guidelines” means the operative guidelines referred to in 
Section I. 5. (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  26
-
25
-
36. 
“STI” means Sexually Transmitted Infections. 
 
37. 
“Umbrella Agreement” means each agreement referred to in Section I. 6. (a) of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
38. 
“Unit Cost” means the unit cost of a PHA Eligible Operating Cost set forth in the 
Operational Manual, as such Unit Cost may be modified in agreement with the 
Bank. 
 
