Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4624 
Project Name 
Scaling up SLM Practice, Knowledge, and Coordination  
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Crops (60%);Irrigation and drainage (15%); Animal production 
(10%); Agricultural extension and research (10%); Forestry (5%) 
Project ID 
P096572 
GEF Focal Area 
L-Land degradation 
Global Incremental ID 
P109737 
Borrower(s) 
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA 
Implementing Agency 
National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA)  
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
10 March 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
5
March 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
28 May 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
Seventy-six million rural Nigerians, mostly poor, are reliant upon natural wealth, while 
incomes and productivity in the rural areas are low and stagnant. 
The economic and 
ecological services provided by Nigeria’s renewable natural resource base constitute the rural 
poor’s only safety net, while also serving as the foundation of the country’s non-oil economic 
growth and food security. As such, sustainable agricultural development depends on land 
management practices that conserve soil and water, improve soil fertility and the biological 
potential for productivity, and that allow communities to adapt to on-going climate change and 
variability. Not only do such practices help deliver important local benefits, they also help secure 
global environmental benefits such as carbon accumulation in biomass and soil, improved 
nitrogen cycling, higher water tables, in-situ biodiversity, and general ecosystem function. 
 
Land is the key asset of the rural poor. How productive land is managed therefore has 
implications for poverty alleviation and economic growth.
 Unsustainable land-use practices 
in Nigeria’s floodplains and other areas prone to land degradation, over-exploitation of natural 
resources, and on-going climate variability all pose threats to maintaining the productivity of 
agricultural lands, as well as ecosystem functions. Deforestation, large-scale land clearing, bush 
burning and floodplain encroachment have taken place mainly for agricultural production. This 
has resulted in severe gulley erosion in the south, desert encroachment in the north, reduced 
vegetation cover, loss of valuable topsoil, siltation of water bodies and flooding. These and other 
forms of land degradation are directly impacting the sustainability of key systems and 
livelihoods. 
 
Page  2
2
An estimated 5% reduction of agricultural GDP from on-farm soil erosion alone
 
is being 
felt
.
\0c?
•‘?‡\03ƒ”‡ƒ•\03‘ˆ\03•‘—–Š‡”?\03\11‹‰‡”‹ƒ
–Š‹•\03Šƒ•\03…ƒ—•‡†\03›‹‡Ž†\03”‡†—…–‹‘?•\03‘ˆ\03ƒ„‘—–\03
–‘\03
\10„ƒ‰™—\03‡–\03ƒŽ\03‹?\03\0c\09flffl\0c\03
Including other forms of land degradation as well as off-
site costs would add to the overall economic cost. Land degradation trends resist easy 
quantification at the national level (CEA 2006) given data constraints, but the 1990 Global 
Assessment of Soil Degradation estimated that 27 percent of Nige
ria’s land had degraded 
sufficiently to affect productivity. This assessment estimates that approximately three quarters of 
the Nigerian population live in areas with “severe or very severe” land degradation. More recent 
analysis estimates about 90% of t
he total land area to be under some form of soil erosion, 
which
 is severe in the northern states where overgrazing, strong winds and poor vegetation cover 
lead to both water and wind erosion 
(Thiombiano and Tourino-Soto, 2007)
.
The southern 
states also experience severe soil erosion due to the high rainfall and continuing deforestation. 
 
The Government recognizes that land productivity is a key to achieving poverty alleviation, 
food security, and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and that further effort is 
urgently needed. 
The President’s 7 Point Agenda specifically includes land degradation, and the 
Bank/DfID Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) notes that from mid-70s to mid-90s there was a 
nine-fold increase in degraded lands. It emphasizes that Nigeria’s agricultural growth has 
resulted in expansion of area cropped and recommends that the sector must shift to 
intensification. To do that sustainably, improved land management practices such as establishing 
grazing reserves, integrated nutrient management, soil conservation structures, and agro-forestry 
need to be scaled up as part of an integrated approach to smallholder development.
 
Many sustainable land management (SLM) practices have positive cost-benefit ratios in 
agro-ecologies throughout Sub-Saharan Africa, yet adoption is low in Nigeria.  
Nigeria does 
benefit from some best-bet practices; for example, alley cropping using the trees 
Gliricidia
 and 
Leucaena
 reduced soil erosion by 73% and 83% respectively, while providing additional fodder, 
fuel, and nitrogen fixation. Erosion is also managed in Nigeria using mechanical methods or 
structures which serve as barriers using stones or vegetation along contour lines (Morgan 1995). 
These structures operate as filters, encouraging sedimentation, increased infiltration, and 
formation of natural terraces (Lal, 1990). The perennial Vetiver grass has served this purpose in 
many places in northern Nigeria (Malgwi, 1995) and is recommended as an appropriate soil 
conservation technology for semi-arid zones as it also withstands climate and land degradation 
risks such as denudation, fire, drought, and flood. These and other specific SLM practices can 
deliver improved yield while sequestering carbon in soil and biomass. In western Nigeria, no-
tillage combined with mulch application had a dramatic effect, increasing soil carbon from 15 to 
over 32 tonnes per hectare in 4 years (Ringius, 2002). Not only is carbon sequestration critical 
for long-term climate stability, changes in carbon present in soil and biomass are considered 
proxy indicators for overall ecosystem function and land productivity and therefore the services 
that ecosystems deliver such as water filtering, biodiversity, soil formation and fertility, and so 
on.
 
Improving smallholder yield is also critical fo
r
slowing Nigeria’s rapid land conversions.
 
Forest and savannah have provided much of the new cropland for Nigeria’s agricultural growth. 
The country now has the world’s highest deforestation rate of 
primary
 forests. From 2000 to 
2005 the country lost 56% of its primary forests (FAO 2005). Nigeria also has Africa's highest 
Page  3
3
rate of total forest loss: 2.8% comparsed to a Sub-Saharan average of 0.8%. The forest cover is 
now less than a third of what it was in the 1960s. From 1990-1995, cropping expanded at an 
annual rate of 1.5% of the country’s total land area, with roughly 70% of this expansion at the 
expense of relatively carbon-rich areas such as woody biomass in the savannah zones and forests 
in the east (World Bank 2005).  Cropland and rangeland productivity growth is needed to help 
reduce deforestation and vegetation loss. 
 
2. Objectives 
The development and global environment objective of the GEF incremental grant is to improve 
the enabling environment for scaling up sustainable land management (SLM) in participating 
communities.
1
SLM practices allow communities participating in the Project to reduce the threat 
of land degradation and climate risks facing their production lands.  
The Project is GEF incremental support to the on-going Fadama III operation supported by IDA. 
As such, the implementation arrangements are integrated. The GEF support focuses on activities 
to strengthen Nigeria’s enabling environment necessary for implementing SLM. The key 
elements of the enabling environment are found at community, local, state, and federal levels and 
include knowledge, awareness, monitoring, planning, advisory services, and capacity. 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Bank Assistance Strategy.
 
The Project is in line with the Nigeria Country Partnership Strategy 
(Report No. 32412-NG), which is designed to support the implementation of Nigeria’s economic 
growth and poverty alleviation strategy as outlined in the NEEDS. The Government requested 
the Bank’s continued financial and technical partnership for the Fadama III project, including the 
GEF increment. 
The GEF Project fills a strategic gap in the portfolio. 
The GEF support will enable the Bank 
and the FGN to begin to integrate climate smart activities that extend the efficiency of land and 
water resources in rural communities by promoting SLM, and in the process, deliver local and 
global environmental benefits from reduced or avoided land degradation. 
Consistency with GEF programming. 
The Project will directly contribute to the 
implementation of the GEF-4 Land Degradation Focal Area Strategy’s Strategic Objectives 1 
(enabling environment for SLM) and 2 (upscaling SLM among communities), as well as 
Strategic Program 1 (support to sustainable agriculture and rangeland management). The GEF 
financing will be drawn from the envelope secured for Sub-Saharan Africa by the World Bank-
led multi-agency GEF Strategic Investment Program for SLM in Sub-Saharan Africa (SIP). The 
SIP is a key activity of the AU-NEPAD TerrAfrica partnership. As such, the Project
 
conforms to 
the SIP principles and delivers on the SIP objectives and intermediate results 2, 3, and 4.
 
1
The project development objective of the existing approved loan (with which the GEF incremental support will 
integrate) is to increase the incomes of users of rural land and water resources.  
 
Page  4
4
4. Description 
Scaling Up SLM Practice, Knowledge and Coordination
 will be an incremental GEF grant to the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria focused on mainstreaming sustainable land management (SLM) in 
Nigeria’s agricultural sector. The GEF grant will be fully integrated into the on-going Fadama III 
operation. The two projects share the same structure, institutional set-up, and implementation 
mechanisms. Fadama III is a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) designed to assist the FGN in 
increasing rural income and reducing poverty in rural areas nationwide focused on community-
driven smallholder agricultural development and alternative livelihoods. Being fully integrated, 
the GEF incremental grant will close at the same time.  
The GEF support is fully integrated into Fadama III Project and reinforces its existing 
components 1 and 6
.
Each GEF component is incremental to and/or complements the respective 
Fadama III component. The text below describes the GEF incremental support only.  
 
GEF Component A: Capacity Building, Communications and Information Support 
(US$6.00m GEF, integrated into Fadama III Component 1)
 
Background:
 Component 1 of the existing Fadama III project is building the underlying capacity 
at federal, state, and local government levels to support innovations in local development 
planning and provide the support structures for delivery of community demand-driven 
investments in rural development. Communities are mobilized to form viable Economic Interest 
Groups (EIGs) that are organized into a network of registered Community Associations 
nationwide. Communications and training programs will empower communities to prepare Local 
Development Plans (LDPs). 
 
Incremental GEF funding will support the following activities: 
 
(1) Capacity Building Support for Community Organizations for Local Development Planning 
(US$1.29m GEF) 
 
The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to strengthen local development 
processes towards a more holistic view of rural development that incorporate land degradation 
threats and climate risks. The aim is to increasingly mainstream SLM practice in Local 
Development Plans, specifically in prioritized investments in agricultural production systems. To 
achieve this, capacity and awareness on SLM technologies will be built at all levels of the 
facilitation structure that supports delivery of community driven rural development. Capacity 
building activities will target a wide spectrum of stakeholders, including policy makers at 
national level, technical staff at State level, development planners and project facilitators at local 
government level, national extension services (ADPs), and land users organized in EIGs and 
Community Associations. 
 
More specifically, incremental support will be provided to develop a detailed SLM training 
program and production of training material, customized for the specific awareness and capacity 
building needs of the different stakeholder groups described above.  
Page  5
5
(2) Capacity Building for Local Governments for Rural Land Use Planning (US$1.51m GEF) 
 
The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to build capacity of local 
governments (LGs) to carry out rural land use planning that balances the need for maximization 
of productivity and long-term sustainability of land, water and forest resources. Few, if any, LGs 
are currently engaged in rural land use planning or natural asset mapping. Due to the limited 
GEF funding envelope, 60 LGs (2 per State for all eligible 30 States) among the existing 
participating LGs will be selected based on agreed criteria (i.e. readiness, level of land 
degradation threats, etc.). Incremental funding will provide for the underlying capacity building 
support to LGs, for carrying out consultative spatial planning, and for a small package of 
Geographic Information System equipment. Existing local knowledge on land capability and 
ecosystem resilience to climate variability will inform the development of rural land use plans. 
 
(3) Communications and outreach (US$0.81m GEF) 
 
The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to heighten awareness of 
stakeholders at all levels on SLM as a pragmatic way to increase land quality and productivity, 
control land degradation, and reduce climate change risks. These stakeholders include those 
active in Fadama III implementation including extension and advisory service providers, 
community facilitators and groups, Local Governments, etc. Communication activities, in 
tandem with capacity building activities described above will play an important role to mobilize 
and incentivize land users to invest in sub-projects for sustainable land and water management 
under the existing demand-driven matching grant facility.  
 
(4) National and State Coordination on Land and Water Management (US$0.48m GEF) 
 
The objective of this fully GEF funded subcomponent is to increase the effectiveness, capability, 
transparency, accountability, and responsiveness of government and other stakeholders to 
improve investment programming on rural land management, as well as the ability to convene 
evidence and knowledge to do so. More specifically, this sub-component will strengthen and 
equip the National SLM Committee to continue developing and begin monitoring its SLM 
Investment Framework. This activity will form part of the country’s CAADP investment 
program, and is in line with the President’s 7 Point Agenda, NEEDS, SEEDS, sector strategies, 
and the TerrAfrica partnership under which support has already been provided.  
 
The SLM Investment Framework is a suite of prioritized on-going, pipeline, and future 
investments, and is accompanied by other institutional support provided by this sub-component 
such as a knowledge and information system
2
,
M&E tools, and associated institutional 
development at State and Federal levels (see component B which funds some of these). The SLM 
Investment Framework allows the country to articulate a more focused investment agenda on 
cross-cutting land issues including agricultural productivity, climate change, watershed 
management, and forest.  
 
(5) Community SLM Award (US$1.91m GEF)  
2
See more details for this activity funded under Component B.
 
Page  6
6
The Community SLM Award is a grant facility, funded entirely by the GEF, to reward existing 
participating communities that successfully implement community SLM sub-projects that have 
been financed under component 2 of the Fadama III operation, and which have community 
involvement and visible public goods. These sub-projects include grazing reserves, soil and 
water conservation, etc. Each award comes in the form of an additional complementary SLM 
sub-project that a community then becomes eligible to implement, up to a value of $10,000 (with 
no counterpart funding required). A total of 185 communities will receive the award, five from 
each State and the FCT. The efforts of communities successfully implementing SLM sub-
projects will be visibly recognized through this additional award by linking to the 
communications and outreach efforts. 
 
GEF Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation, and Knowledge 
(US$0.80m financed by GEF, 
integrated into baseline Component 6
)
Background:
 Component 6 of the existing Fadama III project will finance the cost of project 
management and coordination, monitoring and impact evaluation, as well as the cost of 
screening and ensuring EMP compliance.  
 
Incremental GEF funding will support the following activities (none include project 
administration, which is already fully covered by the baseline project): 
 
The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to enhance the SLM dimensions 
of the M&E system and Management Information System (MIS) established under the baseline 
project. Incremental funding will cover development and application of indicators, tracking tools, 
an SLM information system and capacity building for implementing them. 
 
(1) Monitoring tools  
 
These monitoring tools will allow stakeholders within the project and also beyond the project to 
help the government measure overall land productivity trends as well as changes in the enabling 
environment important for scaling up climate-smart sustainable agriculture and integrated land 
and water management. This will strengthen and help sustain post-project impact. 
 
One monitoring tool is the composite index for tracking changes in the enabling environment for 
SLM
.
This is the indicator used to track progress toward this project’s global environment 
objective, and was developed and applied during project preparation. This tool is a simple and 
low-cost perception based survey among experts of the extent to which the enabling conditions 
for SLM (institutions, financing, knowledge, etc) are improving or deteriorating. Because 
Fadama III has nationwide reach and is itself mainstreamed into Federal, State, and Local 
governments, this tool is applicable as an indicator for this project, as well as more generally to 
track Nigeria’s capacities implement SLM over time.  
 
A
second monitoring tool helps project officers and the government at large track adoption rates 
of specific SLM practices
.
Adoption rates and hectares affected can be estimated from the on-
going comprehensive baseline household survey. GEF incremental support will be provided to 
Page  7
7
pull together the data from the baseline survey (and follow-on surveys at mid-term and project 
close) to estimate adoption rates of SLM practices in the project area nationwide. This indicator 
will be reported as a national aggregate of local and state level figures, broken down by: agro-
ecological zone, structural/vegetative activity, enterprise activity, community level and 
household level. 
 
A
third monitoring tool will be developed to estimate the global and local environmental benefits 
from the SLM practices tracked above.
 The patterns in the adoption rates tracked using the tool 
described above will be used to quantify estimated global and local environmental benefits 
accruing from the improved land management practices. These estimates will be derived from 
co-efficient factors to be developed for each type of land management activity in each major 
agro-ecology. Co-efficients will be identified for environmental benefits such as carbon and 
nitrogen balances, biodiversity, and others as data and assumptions allow, based on existing best 
available science including from on-going quantitative analytical work by the Government and 
the World Bank.  
 
A
fourth monitoring tool to be refined and applied will track changes in land productivity, land 
degradation, and overall ecosystem function nationwide.
 This tool will use freely available 
satellite data to track net primary productivity to estimate overall land degradation trends in rain-
fed environments. Net primary productivity, reported in amount of carbon, is based on the 
commonly known NDVI, which tracks changes in vegetation cover. Net primary productivity is 
more applicable for monitoring land degradation and basic land productivity trends because 
carbon is considered a proxy for overall ecosystem performance.  
 
(2) 
SLM information system and knowledge base 
 
The objective of incremental co-funding to this sub-component is to finance the development of 
a
comprehensive national technical knowledge base and dynamic information system on climate-
smart soil and water conservation specific to Nigeria’s agro-ecological zones. The aim is to 
overcome the highly fragmented nature of knowledge available in the country and serve as a 
“one-stop shop” for knowledge and information on rural land and water management practices. 
As part of the knowledge base, a simple geospatial tool for a general audience will be developed 
and applied. This will provide timely information on climate and land risk factors (erosion, 
temperature, rainfall, etc), land use, land use change, and other parameters. As the Federal 
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (FMAWR) continues to digitize its soil erosion 
maps, and climate assessments get underway, this work becomes increasingly important and 
useful to inform Project management and also future investment programming.  
 
5. Financing 
Source: (US$m)
Global Environment Facility (GEF) 
6.80
Total 6.80
6. Implementation 
Page  8
8
Implementation of the GEF supplement is fully integrated into the existing implementation 
structures of the Fadama III baseline project and no additional institutional structure or lines of 
accountability will be created.  
The Project
 utilizes the existing institutional structure of the FMAWR, its federal and state level 
coordination offices as well as state ministries of agriculture, without creating an add-on project 
implementation unit. FMAWR will have overall responsibility for execution of the Project 
through its existing National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA). 
At the Federal level
,
NFRA will 
coordinate Project activities on behalf of FMAWR via the existing National Fadama 
Coordination Office (NFCO), which is responsible for day-to-day Project management. At the 
highest level in FMAWR, a new small advisory committee serves as a sub-committee of the 
Federal Agricultural Development Program Executive Committee (FADPEC), and will be 
responsible for Project oversight, overall policy guidance, coordination with other projects, 
strategic direction, and review and approval of the annual work program and budget of National 
Fadama Coordination Office. 
At the Zonal level
,
six Zonal Fadama Coordination Offices will 
support implementation coordination of the SFCOs within each of the six geopolitical zones and 
ensure reporting and accountability to the NFCO. 
At the State level
,
the Ministry of Agriculture 
will delegate responsibility for day-to- day implementation coordination to the State Fadama 
Coordination Office (SFCO), while the oversight, policy, and strategic orientation functions will 
be performed by the State Fadama Technical Committee (SFTC), which is a sub-committee of 
the Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee (ADPEC). 
At the Local 
Government level
,
a
Local Development Committee will be established. 
At the Community 
level
,
critical decisions will take place within the Community Associations and the various 
economic interest groups, which constitute them. These Community Associations will identify, 
prepare, execute, supervise, operate, and maintain their subprojects. The team of facilitators and 
other specialists will be deployed to provide related and necessary technical assistance and 
training support.  
 
7. 
Sustainability and Replicability 
 
The sustainability of Project depends on the sustainability of Fadama III, because the two 
projects are fully integrated with one another
.
The sustainability of Fadama III depends on 
ownership and commitment of recipients, financial and technical soundness of subprojects, 
financial sustainability of the income-generating investments, capacity of communities, and the 
stability of the social, economic, and political environment.  
 
Financial sustainability of the Fadama III subprojects
.
The sustainability of Fadama III, and 
therefore the incremental GEF support, hinges upon the ability of Fadama III to deliver benefits 
at the grassroots level. This in turn depends first and foremost on the financial soundness of the 
subprojects during the early design stage. 
 
Ownership and recipient commitment.  
The establishment of Local Development Plans is 
participatory and increases the likelihood that community needs, perspectives, and ownership are 
internalized.   
 
Page  9
9
Capacity of communities and beneficiary associations
.
The GEF support will make 
significant investments in capacity building through training and technical assistance on SLM.  
In addition, the investments in capacities of extension and service providers, local governments, 
and community facilitators will contribute enhance the supply side of advisory services. 
 
Enabling institutional environment.  
The emphasis on knowledge, communication, and 
capacity development by the GEF Project, combined with investment dialogue and planning, 
enhances the visibility of 
the Project’s results and thereby increases government commitment to 
the Project and its approach. In addition, project support will be used to strengthen the capacity 
of government at community, local, state, and federal levels to manage SLM implementation and 
investment decisions. The state, local, and community entities involved will participate in 
training on participatory approaches, conflict management, M&E, and environmental and social 
assessments.  
 
Sustained demand and adoption of SLM approaches and technologies
.
The strategic 
approach of the GEF project is based on the assumption that engagement and mobilization of 
communities, complemented by technical support services, is fundamental to creating 
community awareness on the short- and long-term economic benefits and ecosystem services 
from improved land and water management. This in turn depends on a very strong enabling 
environment that can convene and channel knowledge, advisory services, monitoring and 
stakeholders to reinforce the community level. In this way, this approach is meant to help 
stimulate demand for public and private investments in ensuring that production systems sustain 
ecosystem functions.  
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
GEF stand-alone investments 
in SLM and other focal areas have had limited success. This calls 
for mainstreaming SLM objectives into broader rural development investment programs that 
address and support the core functions of national and local development planning.  
Community demand-driven approaches
 have proven to be a robust and successful delivery 
mechanism in Nigeria to reduce rural poverty, increase food security and rural economic 
diversification.  
Scope of response
.
Prior and ongoing responses to land degradation in Nigeria have not matched 
the scale of the problem. This is even truer when climate vulnerabilities and risks to productive 
land assets are taken into account. 
Knowledge gap
.
While there is high awareness throughout the country on the detrimental impact 
and threats posed by land degradation to agricultural productivity and rural livelihoods, and 
emerging evidence of accurate community perception of climate impacts on land productivity,
 
there is very low awareness and knowledge on successful SLM approaches and technologies that 
respond to land degradation and climate change risks, while providing livelihood benefits.  
Page  10
10
SLM has a weak position in an under capacitated advisory services system
.
IFPRI’s impact 
study of CDD programs in Nigeria
3
finds that while CDD programs have significantly increased 
incomes of beneficiaries and successfully targeted the poor and vulnerable with productive asset 
acquisition, they have also reduced the demand for soil fertility management technologies, and 
instead increased demand for post-harvest handling technologies. This likely reflects the earlier 
projects’ focus on promoting post-production advisory services. This calls for strengthening 
capacities in SLM technologies and approaches among public and private advisory service 
providers to reduce risks to production from natural resource degradation and climate variability 
and change. 
 
Cross-sectoral coordination
.
Efforts to address land degradation and climate risk could have 
greater impact by improving operational coordination across sectors on policy and investment 
design and implementation, better linking research and extension with one another and with 
investment and policy communities, strengthening local awareness and ownership, and involving 
communities in technology selection and monitoring.  
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.01)
[
X
]
[
]
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ X ] 
[ ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
X
]
[
]
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[
X
]
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ X ] 
[ ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
 4.10)
[
]
[
X
]
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ X ] 
[ ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
[
]
[
X
]
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
 7.60)
[
]
[
X
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
 7.50) 
[ X ] 
[ ] 
The Project has been classified as a B Category, implying that potential adverse environmental 
and social impacts will be limited, easily remediable and site-specific. Limited adverse 
environmental and social impacts may occur due to new community infrastructure development, 
small-scale irrigation, ground water extraction and horticultural and livestock production. The 
six safeguards policies indicated in the table above were triggered and in response three 
safeguards instruments, the Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), the 
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), and the Pest Management Plan (PMP) have been 
prepared in the context of the baseline project. All three safeguards instruments have been 
updated for the purposes of the GEF supplementary project and disclosed in-country on 
November 2, 2009 as well as at the Bank’s Info Shop.  
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
3
World Bank, 2008, From the Ground up: Impacts of a Pro-Poor Community-Driven Development Project in Nigeria, 
Agriculture and Rural Development Discussion Paper 40;
 
Page  11
11
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) 
Project Implementation Manual (PIM) 
 
11. Contact point 
Abimbola Adubi,  
Senior Agricultural Specialist, Nigeria Country Office 
World Bank, Abuja, Nigeria (IBRD) 
Tel: +234-9-314-5269, Email: aadubi@worldbank.org 
 
Dr. Tijani Bukar 
National Program Coordinator, National Fadama Coordination Office (NFCO), 
National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA), Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water 
Development , Abuja, Nigeria 
Bukartijani@yahoo.com
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: 
pic@worldbank.org
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
