Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  03/17/2010 
Report No.:  AC4285
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Nigeria 
Project ID:  P109737 
Project Name:  Nigeria Scaling Up Sustainable Land Management Practice, Knowledge, 
and Coordination 
Task Team Leader:  Abimbola Adubi 
GEF Focal Area: Land degradation 
Global Supplemental ID:  
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 29, 2010 
Estimated Board Date: May 28, 2010 
Managing Unit:  AFTAR 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Crops (60%);Irrigation and drainage (15%);Animal production 
(10%);Agricultural extension and research (10%);Forestry (5%) 
Theme:  Land administration and management (40%);Other environment and natural 
resources management (40%);Environmental policies and institutions (20%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
6.80 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The development and global environment objective of the GEF supplemental grant is to 
improve the enabling environment for scaling up sustainable land management (SLM) in 
participating communities.  SLM practices allow communities participating in the Project 
to reduce the threat of land degradation and climate risks facing their production lands.   
 
3. Project Description 
Scaling Up SLM Practice, Knowledge and Coordination will be an incremental GEF 
grant to the Federal Republic of Nigeria focused on mainstreaming sustainable land 
management (SLM) in Nigeria's agricultural sector. The incremental GEF grant will be 
fully integrated into the on-going Fadama III operation. The two projects share the same 
structure, institutional set-up, and implementation mechanisms. Fadama III is a Specific 
Investment Loan (SIL) designed to assist the FGN in increasing rural income and 
reducing poverty in rural areas nationwide focused on community-driven smallholder 
Page  2
agricultural development and alternative livelihoods. Being fully integrated, the GEF 
supplemental grant will close at the same time.  
 
The GEF support is fully integrated into Fadama III Project and reinforces its existing 
components 1 and 6. Each GEF component is incremental to and/or complements the 
respective Fadama III component. The text below describes the GEF incremental support 
only.  
 
GEF Component A: Capacity Building, Communications and Information Support 
(US$6.00m GEF, integrated into Fadama III Component 1)  
 
Background: Component 1 of the existing Fadama III project is building the underlying 
capacity at federal, state, and local government levels to support innovations in local 
development planning and provide the support structures for delivery of community 
demand-driven investments in rural development. Communities are mobilized to form 
viable Economic Interest Groups (EIGs) that are organized into a network of registered 
Community Associations nationwide. Communications and training programs will 
empower communities to prepare Local Development Plans (LDPs).  
 
Incremental GEF funding will support the following activities:  
 
(1) Capacity Building Support for Community Organizations for Local Development 
Planning (US$1.29m GEF)  
 
GEF incremental funding to this sub-component aims to strengthen local development 
processes towards a more holistic view of rural development that incorporate land 
degradation threats and climate risks. The aim is to increasingly mainstream SLM 
practice in Local Development Plans, specifically in prioritized investments in 
agricultural production systems. To achieve this, capacity and awareness on SLM 
technologies will be built at all levels of the facilitation structure that supports delivery of 
community driven rural development. Capacity building activities will target a wide 
spectrum of stakeholders, including policy makers at national level, technical staff at 
State level, development planners and project facilitators at local government level, 
national extension services (ADPs), and land users organized in EIGs and Community 
Associations.  
 
More specifically, incremental support will be provided to develop a detailed SLM 
training program and production of training material, customized for the specific 
awareness and capacity building needs of the different stakeholder groups described 
above.  
 
(2) Capacity Building for Local Governments for Rural Land Use Planning (US$1.51m 
GEF)  
 
The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to build capacity of local 
governments (LGs) to carry out rural land use planning that balances the need for 
Page  3
maximization of productivity and long-term sustainability of land, water and forest 
resources. Few, if any, LGs are currently engaged in rural land use planning or natural 
asset mapping. Due to the limited GEF funding envelope, 60 LGs (2 per State for all 
eligible 30 States) among the existing participating LGs will be selected based on agreed 
criteria (i.e. readiness, level of land degradation threats, etc.). Incremental funding will 
provide for the underlying capacity building support to LGs, for carrying out consultative 
spatial planning, and for a small package of Geographic Information System equipment. 
Existing local knowledge on land capability and ecosystem resilience to climate 
variability will inform the development of rural land use plans.  
 
(3) Communications and outreach (US$0.81m GEF)  
 
The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to heighten awareness of 
stakeholders at all levels on SLM as a pragmatic way to increase land quality and 
productivity, control land degradation, and reduce climate change risks. These 
stakeholders include those active in Fadama III implementation including extension and 
advisory service providers, community facilitators and groups, Local Governments, etc. 
Communication activities, in tandem with capacity building activities described above 
will play an important role to mobilize and incentivize land users to invest in sub-projects 
for sustainable land and water management under the existing demand-driven matching 
grant facility.  
 
(4) National and State Coordination on Land and Water Management (US$0.48m GEF)  
 
The objective of this fully GEF funded subcomponent is to increase the effectiveness, 
capability, transparency, accountability, and responsiveness of government and other 
stakeholders to improve investment programming on rural land management, as well as 
the ability to convene evidence and knowledge to do so. More specifically, this sub-
component will strengthen and equip the National SLM Committee to continue 
developing and begin monitoring its SLM Investment Framework. This activity will form 
part of the country's CAADP investment program, and is in line with Vision 2020, the 
President's 7 Point Agenda, NEEDS, SEEDS, sector strategies, and the TerrAfrica 
partnership under which support has already been provided.  
 
The SLM Investment Framework is a suite of prioritized on-going, pipeline, and future 
investments, and is accompanied by other institutional support provided by this sub-
component such as a knowledge and information system , M&E tools, and associated 
institutional development at State and Federal levels (see component B which funds some 
of these). The SLM Investment Framework allows the country to articulate a more 
focused investment agenda on cross-cutting land issues including agricultural 
productivity, climate change, watershed management, and forest.  
 
(5) Community SLM Award (US$1.91m GEF)  
 
The Community SLM Award is a grant facility, funded entirely by the GEF, to reward 
existing participating communities that successfully implement community SLM sub-
Page  4
projects that have been financed under component 2 of the Fadama III operation, and 
which have community involvement and visible public goods. These sub-projects include 
grazing reserves, soil and water conservation, etc. Each award comes in the form of an 
additional complementary SLM sub-project that a community then becomes eligible to 
implement, up to a value of $10,000 (with no counterpart funding required). A total of 
185 communities will receive the award, five from each State and the FCT. The efforts of 
communities successfully implementing SLM sub-projects will be visibly recognized 
through this additional award by linking to the communications and outreach efforts.  
 
GEF Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation, and Knowledge (US$0.80m financed by 
GEF, integrated into baseline Component 6)  
 
Background: Component 6 of the existing Fadama III project will finance the cost of 
project management and coordination, monitoring and impact evaluation, as well as the 
cost of screening and ensuring EMP compliance. The component includes a knowledge 
oriented Management and Information System (MIS).  
 
Incremental GEF funding will support the following activities (none include project 
administration, which is already fully covered by the baseline project):  
 
The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to enhance the SLM 
dimensions of the M&E system and Management Information System (MIS) established 
under the baseline project. Incremental funding will cover development and application 
of indicators, tracking tools, an SLM information system and capacity building for 
implementing them.  
 
(1) 
Monitoring tools  
 
These monitoring tools will allow stakeholders within the project and also beyond the 
project to help the government measure overall land productivity trends as well as 
changes in the enabling environment important for scaling up climate-smart sustainable 
agriculture and integrated land and water management. This will strengthen and help 
sustain post-project impact.  
 
One monitoring tool is the composite index for tracking changes in the enabling 
environment for SLM. This is the indicator used to track progress toward this project#s 
global environment objective, and was developed and applied during project preparation. 
This tool is a simple and low-cost perception based survey among experts of the extent to 
which the enabling conditions for SLM (institutions, financing, knowledge, etc) are 
improving or deteriorating. Because Fadama III has nationwide reach and is itself 
mainstreamed into Federal, State, and Local governments, this tool is applicable as an 
indicator for this project, as well as more generally to track Nigeria's capacities 
implement SLM over time.  
 
A
second monitoring tool helps project officers and the government at large track 
adoption rates of specific SLM practices. Adoption rates and hectares affected can be 
Page  5
estimated from the on-going comprehensive baseline household survey. GEF incremental 
support will be provided to pull together the data from the baseline survey (and follow-on 
surveys at mid-term and project close) to estimate adoption rates of SLM practices in the 
project area nationwide. This indicator will be reported as a national aggregate of local 
and state level figures, broken down by: agro-ecological zone, structural/vegetative 
activity, enterprise activity, community level and household level.  
 
A
third monitoring tool will be developed to estimate the global and local environmental 
benefits from the SLM practices tracked above. The patterns in the adoption rates tracked 
using the tool described above will be used to quantify estimated global and local 
environmental benefits accruing from the improved land management practices. These 
estimates will be derived from co-efficient factors to be developed for each type of land 
management activity in each major agro-ecology. Co-efficients will be identified for 
environmental benefits such as carbon and nitrogen balances, biodiversity, and others as 
data and assumptions allow, based on existing best available science including from on-
going quantitative analytical work by the Government and the World Bank.   
 
A
fourth monitoring tool to be refined and applied will track changes in land 
productivity, land degradation, and overall ecosystem function nationwide. This tool will 
use freely available satellite data to track net primary productivity to estimate overall land 
degradation trends in rain-fed environments. Net primary productivity, reported in 
amount of carbon, is based on the commonly known NDVI, which tracks changes in 
vegetation cover. Net primary productivity is more applicable for monitoring land 
degradation and basic land productivity trends because carbon is considered a proxy for 
overall ecosystem performance.  
 
(2) 
SLM information system and knowledge base  
 
The objective of incremental co-funding to this sub-component is to finance the 
development of a comprehensive national technical knowledge base and dynamic 
information system on climate-smart soil and water conservation specific to Nigeria#s 
agro-ecological zones. The aim is to overcome the highly fragmented nature of 
knowledge available in the country and serve as a #one-stop shop# for knowledge and 
information on rural land and water management practices. As part of the knowledge 
base, a simple geospatial tool for a general audience will be developed and applied. This 
will provide timely information on climate and land risk factors (erosion, temperature, 
rainfall, etc), land use, land use change, and other parameters. As the FMAWR continues 
to digitize its soil erosion maps, and climate assessments get underway, this work 
becomes increasingly important and useful to inform Project management and also future 
investment programming.  
 
Beneficiaries  
 
The primary beneficiaries of the GEF supplement are rural community groups exposed 
to the socio-economic and environmental impacts of land degradation. An estimated 2.2 
million rural poor households, organized into 7400 community organizations, will 
potentially benefit from improved management of land and water resources in Fadama 
Page  6
III, resulting in enhanced land productivity and income generation. Secondary 
beneficiaries include public and private organizations at Federal, State, and local 
government levels that enable upscaling of climate-smart land management.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The GEF incremental grant is aligned with the national scope of the associated Fadama 
III project in terms of improved multi-sector investment planning, knowledge generation 
and dissemination, policy input, SLM technology guidance, and land quality monitoring. 
However, GEF financed activities implemented at the state level will not cover all States 
of Nigeria. Instead, GEF support will focus only on those States that do not yet have 
institutional structures for cross-sectoral coordination and rural land use planning in 
place. In the six States of Imo, Kebbi, Kwara, Kogi, Ogun, and Bauchi, state-level 
watershed committees, which also serve as sub-committees to the National SLM 
Committee, have already been established. Consequently, these six States are excluded 
from additional GEF investments in an effort to avoid the duplication of external funding 
support related to capacity building for mainstreaming of SLM at State level. GEF 
financed activities under this project will accordingly focus on the remaining 30 Sates 
and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).   In terms of physical location, Nigeria lies 
approximately between 4oN and 14oN and between 3oE and 15oE and with a coastline of 
853 kilometers. The longest distance from south to north is about 1200 kilometers and 
from east to west is about 1200 kilometers. As a result of this areal extent, the project 
areas experience considerable variability in rainfall, temperature, humidity, altitude, 
topography vegetation, soil and so on.  Accordingly, this project will cover the 3 major 
ecological zones of Nigeria namely: Coastal Mangrove Swamps, Rainforest and 
Savannah (guinea, sudan and sahel). In line with the prevailing local ecological 
conditions, the safeguards instruments prepared and disclosed by Fadama III will be used 
to screen and develop appropriate EMPs and RAPs at designated project sites across the 
country.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Chukwudi H. Okafor (ECSSD) 
Mr Amos Abu (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
X
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  7
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project:  
 
The GEF supplemental grant financing is fully integrated into the existing project design 
and existing institutional and implementation arrangements of the baseline Fadama III 
project. Essentially, the GEF supplemental activities will focus on mainstreaming SLM 
into Nigeria's agricultural sector.  GEF support will build capacity, knowledge and 
awareness for SLM at national, state, and local levels.  GEF support emphasizes the 
establishment of effective knowledge coordination and investment programming.  On the 
ground investments in SLM sub-projects will be financed through the existing demand-
driven matching grant facility financed through the baseline FADAMA III Project. GEF 
funding will further reward participating communities that successfully implement 
community SLM sub-projects under the Fadama III Project with award funding through a 
small grant facility.  
 
Based on the fully mainstreamed design of the GEF supplemental project into the 
baseline project, the same safeguard policies that were triggered for the baseline project 
will also apply for the GEF supplemental.  Accordingly, the existing package of 
safeguard instruments has been updated to incorporate GEF-financed activities.  
 
OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) applies.  An Environmental and Social 
Management Framework (ESMF) has been developed and is in place to guide mitigation 
of potential identified risks.  While most SLM activities are not expected to generate any 
significant adverse environmental and social impacts, some SLM investments may result 
in mainly site-specific and small-scale consequences, if no appropriate mitigation 
measures are incorporated in sub-project design. Examples are investments in SLM-
related small infrastructure investments, such as water harvesting structures, gully 
stabilization structures, etc. All sub-project investments will be screened for 
environmental and social impacts that would trigger OP 4.01.  The Environmental and 
Social Management Plan provides details on the screening process and has been disclosed 
publicly in Nigeria and the Bank's Infoshop.  
 
OP/BP 4.04 (Natural Habitats) and OP/BP 4.36 (Forests) apply.  The project will 
operate in and around natural habitats and in forests.  Aim of the GEF supplemental is to 
upscale sustainable land management practices, and thus to sustain the productive quality 
of agricultural land.  By improving the sustainability of agricultural practices and other 
land use activities, the project is targeting the key drivers of natural habitat destruction, 
deforestation and forest degradation.  
 
OP/BP 4.09 (Pest Management) applies.  Increasing agricultural productivity in Fadama 
areas and potential small-scale irrigation activities along some major rivers (Niger and 
Benue) under the baseline Fadama III project could lead to intensification and increased 
use of pesticides or purchase of pesticides or herbicides, even though neither the baseline 
project nor the GEF supplemental will finance the purchase of these chemicals.  A Pest 
Page  8
Management Plan (PMP) has been prepared and disclosed in-country and at the Bank's 
Infoshop.  
 
OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) applies.  During implementation of the project, 
Involuntary Resettlement, especially restriction of access to sources of livelihood and loss 
of assets and/or access to individual or community resources cannot be ruled out 
completely.  As due diligence, the Fadama II Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has 
been prepared and disclosed publicly in Nigeria and the Bank's Infoshop.  
 
Thus far, the need to prepare a Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) has not arisen during 
either the closed predecessor Fadama II project or the ongoing Fadama III project, 
because communities tend to avoid subprojects that will involve the taking of land or 
restriction of access to sources of livelihood.  
 
OP/BP 7.50 (Projects on International Waterways) applies.  Nigeria has three main 
international waterways:  Rivers Niger, Benue and Komadougou-Yobe.  The use of these 
waterways will most certainly be required under the project.  Riparian notification has 
been issued to the Niger Basin Authority (the regional institution for all riparian countries 
of the Niger River) and the Lake Chad Basin Commission (which covers countries that 
share Lake Chad, Benue and the Komadougou rivers).   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
This Project falls into Category B and accordingly no adverse long-term impacts are 
anticipated.  No long-term adverse impacts were identified in the prepared safeguards 
instruments:  Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF); Resettlement 
Policy Framework (RPF); and Pest Management Plan (PMP).  This Project will not fund 
activities that would cause a significant adverse effect on the environment or any form of 
land acquisition or restriction of access to sources of livelihoods.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not relevant.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide an 
assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described:  
 
Nigeria has developed institutional capacity for relevant safeguards policies in various 
sectoral ministries with the satisfactory implementation of safeguards instruments under 
previous Bank operations, such as the Lagos Urban Transport Project (LUTP) or the 
Local Empowerment and Environmental Management Project (LEEMP).  Under the 
Fadama II project, the Environmental Officers (at the state level) have developed 
institutional capacity for relevant safeguards policies and satisfactorily implemented 
applicable safeguard instruments. Further capacity will be gained as part of 
implementation of the Fadama III project that recently became effective.  The 
Page  9
Environmental Officers (EOs) are actively involved in the screening of Local 
Development Plans (LDPs) and associated subprojects using the ESMF, PMP and RPF.  
The EOs are also responsible for ensuring that mitigation costs are included in subproject 
budges as needed.  
 
The Federal Ministry of Environment is sufficiently knowledgeable on the Bank's 
safeguards policies, and its staff - especially those of the impact assessment and 
mitigation unit - have benefited from training on the Bank's safeguards policies in the 
past. Additional support will be provided to the PMU by the environmental and social 
safeguards specialists in the team.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people:  
 
The Project will abide by the covenants of the three policies of Forestry, Natural 
Habitats and International Waters.  The three safeguard instruments: Environmental and 
Social Management Framework (ESMF), Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), and 
Pest Management Plan (PMP), have been prepared by the client, including broad 
consultation in-country, and reviewed and cleared by the Bank in the context of the 
baseline Fadama III project.  All safeguard instruments were updated for the purposes of 
the GEF supplementary project and re-disclosed in-country on October 29, 2009 and in 
the Bank's Infoshop on December 5, 2009.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
05/04/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/29/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/05/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
05/04/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/29/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/05/2009 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Page  10
Date of receipt by the Bank 
05/04/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/29/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/05/2009 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
No 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
N/A 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
Yes 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.36 - Forests 
 
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints 
been carried out? 
N/A 
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these 
constraints? 
N/A 
Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include 
provisions for certification system? 
N/A 
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways 
 
Have the other riparians been notified of the project? 
Yes 
Page  11
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification 
requirement, has this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo 
to the RVP prepared and sent? 
N/A 
Has the RVP approved such an exception? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Abimbola Adubi 
03/17/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Amos Abu 
03/17/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Chukwudi H. Okafor 
03/05/2010 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Karen Mcconnell Brooks 
03/17/2010 
Comments:   
