                                              IDocument of
                                          The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                   Report No: 54888-NG




                               PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ON A

                             PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
                      GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.8 MILLION


                                                TO THE

                                FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                                 FOR A

 SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE, KNOWLEDGE, AND
                           COORDINATION


                                              June 8, 2010




Agricultural and Rural Development
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCW2
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2010)


                        Currency Unit = Naira
                               1 US$ = NGN151.75
                               1 US$ = SDR 0.68

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 ­ December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB      African Development Bank
ADP        Agricultural Development Program
ADPEC     Agricultural Development Program Executive Committee
CAADP     Comprehensive African Agricultural Development Program
CDD       Community Driven Development
CI         Composite Index for the Enabling Environment for Sustainable Land Management
CMU        Country Management Unit
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
DA        Designated Account
EIG        Economic Interest Group
EMCAP      Economic Management Capacity Building Project
ERGP       Economic Reform and Governance Project
ESMF       Environmental and Social Management Framework
FADPEC     Federal Agricultural Development Programs Executive Committee
FCA        Fadama Community Association
FCT       Federal Capital Territory
FEM        Finance and Expenditure Management
FGN        Federal Government of Nigeria
FM         Financial Management
FMAP      Financial Management Action Plan
FMARD     Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FMAWR      Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
FMD        Financial Management Department
FME        Federal Ministry of Environment
FMF        Federal Ministry of Finance
FPM        Financial Procedures Manual
FPFMD     Federal Project Financial Management Division
FUG        Fadama User Group
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GPN        General Procurement Notice
IAU        Internal Audit Unit
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICRISAT   International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA       International Development Association
IFPRI     International Food Policy Research Institute
IFR        Interim Financial Report
IRR        Internal Rate of Return


                                          ii
     IPSAS      International Public Sector Accounting Standard
     LDP        Local Development Plan
     LFD        Local Fadama Desk
     LFDC       Local Fadama Development Committee
     LGA        Local Government Area
     M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
     MDG        Millennium Development Goal
     MIS        Management Information System
     MTR        Mid-term Review
     NCB        National Competitive Bidding
     NEEDS      National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy
     NEPAD      New Partnership for African Development
     NFCO       National Fadama Coordination Office
     NFDO       National Fadama Development Office
     NFRA       National Food Reserve Agency
     NFTC       National Fadama Technical Committee
     NGO        Non-governmental Organization
     NPAFS      National Program for Agriculture and Food Security
     NPC        National Planning Commission
     NPV        Net Present Value
     OP         Operational Policy (of the World Bank)
     PAD        Project Appraisal Document
     PDO        Project Development Objective
     PFM        Project Financial Management
     PFMU       Project Financial Management Unit
     PIM        Project Implementation Manual
     PMP        Pest Management Plan
     PRA        Participatory Rural Appraisal
     RPF        Resettlement Policy Framework
     SEEDS      State Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy
     SGCBP      State Governance and Capacity Building Project
     SFCO       State Fadama Coordination Office
     SFDC       State Fadama Development Committee
     SFDO       State Fadama Development Office
     SFTC       State Fadama Technical Committee
     SIP        Strategic Investment Program for SLM in Sub-Saharan Africa
     SLM        Sustainable Land Management
     SOE        Statement of Expenditure
     TOR        Terms of Reference
     UNCCD      UN Convention to Combat Desertification




Vice President:                                       Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:                                     Onno Ruhl
Sector Director                                       Inger Andersen
Sector Manager:                                       Karen McConnell Brooks
Task Team Leader:                                     Abimbola Adubi




                                                iii
                                           FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

 SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE, KNOWLEDGE, AND
                           COORDINATION

CONTENTS                                                                                                                             Page

I.     Strategic context and rationale ........................................................................................... 1 

A.  Country and sector issues................................................................................................... 1 

B.  Rationale for Bank and GEF involvement ......................................................................... 4 

C.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ................................................... 5 

II.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION ................................................................................................ 6 

A.  Financing instrument.......................................................................................................... 6 

B.  Project development and global environment objective and key indicators ...................... 6 

C.  Project approach of the GEF grant ..................................................................................... 7 

D.  Project components ............................................................................................................ 7 

E.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ......................................................... 12 

F.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................................... 14 

III.  IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................................................................... 15 

A.  Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................... 15 

B.  Monitoring and evaluation ............................................................................................... 18 

C.  Sustainability and replicability......................................................................................... 18 

D.  Partnership arrangements ................................................................................................. 20 

E.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects .............................................................. 20 

F.  Grant conditions and covenants ....................................................................................... 21 

IV.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY .............................................................................................. 22 

A.  Technical .......................................................................................................................... 22 

B.  Fiduciary .......................................................................................................................... 22 



                                                                      iv
C.  Social................................................................................................................................ 24 

D.  Environment ..................................................................................................................... 25 

E.  Safeguard policies ............................................................................................................ 26 

F.  Policy exceptions and readiness ....................................................................................... 27 

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background ........................................................... 28 

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies..................... 49 

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring......................................................................... 51 

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description .................................................................................... 55 

Annex 5: Project Costs............................................................................................................. 72 

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements ................................................................................. 73 

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ....................................... 80 

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements ...................................................................................... 91 

Annex 9: Incremental Cost Analysis ....................................................................................... 98 

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues........................................................................................ 107 

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision .................................................................... 110 

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File .............................................................................. 112 

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits ........................................................................... 113 

Annex 14: Country at a Glance .............................................................................................. 116 

Annex 15: Climate Risk Perceptions and Adaptation among Nigerian Farming Communities118 

Annex 16: Sustainable Land Management in Nigeria: Towards a Multi-sector Investment
Program .................................................................................................................................. 124 

Annex 17: Summary of Fadama III Project Components ...................................................... 127 

Annex 18: Maps ..................................................................................................................... 129 




                                                                        v
                              FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

       NIGERIA SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                     KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

                              PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                         AFRICA

                                          AFTAR

Date: June 8, 2010                                  Team Leader: Abimbola Adubi
Country Director: Onno Ruhl                         Sectors: Crops (60%); Irrigation and drainage
Sector Director: Inger Andersen                     (15%); Animal production (10%); Agricultural
Sector Manager/Director: Karen Mcconnell            extension and research (10%); Forestry (5%)
Brooks                                              Themes: Land administration and management
Project ID: P109737                                 (40%); Other environment and natural
Focal Area: Land degradation                        resources management (40%); Environmental
Environmental Assessment: Partial                   policies and institutions (20%)
Assessment                                          Joint IFC:
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Joint Level:
                                  Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit   [X] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m): 0.00
Proposed terms:
                                  Financing Plan (US$m)
                 Source                       Local                 Foreign           Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                               0.00                   0.00            0.00
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                6.80                   0.00            6.80
Total:                                           6.80                   0.00            6.80

Borrower:
Federal Republic of Nigeria

Responsible Agency:
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FCDA Secretariat
Area 11, Garki
Abuja
Federal Capital Territory
Federal Republic of Nigeria

Federal Ministry of Finance
Ahmadu Bello Way


                                               vi
Abuja
Federal Capital Territory
Federal Republic of Nigeria

Federal Ministry of Environment
Federal Secretariat Complex
Shehu Shagari Way
Abuja
Federal Capital Territory
Federal Republic of Nigeria

National Planning Commission
NPC Building
Central Business District
Abuja
Federal Capital Territory
Federal Republic of Nigeria
                          Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY           2010       2011    2012     2013    2014
Annual         0.00      1.75    1.18     2.61     1.26
Cumulative     0.00      1.75    2.93     5.54     6.80
Project implementation period: Starts June 29,2010 Ends December 31, 2013
Expected effectiveness date: July 12, 2010
Expected closing date: December 31, 2013
Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?
                                                                                                            [ ]Yes [X] No
Ref. PAD I.C.
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD IV.F.                                                                                              [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                                                [ ]Yes [ ] No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                                 [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
                                                                                                            [X]Yes [] No
Ref. PAD III.E, Annex 7
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
                                                                                                            [X]Yes [] No
Ref. PAD IV.F.

Development and Global Environment Objective Ref. PAD II.C., and Annex 3

The development and global environment objective of the GEF incremental grant is to improve
the enabling environment for scaling up sustainable land management in participating
communities.1

1
  The project development objective of the existing approved credit (with which the GEF incremental support will integrate) is to
increase the incomes of users of rural land and water resources.




                                                              vii
Project description Ref. PAD II.D., and Annex 4

Scaling up SLM Practice, Knowledge and Coordination will be a three-and-a-half-year
incremental GEF grant to the Federal Republic of Nigeria, focused on mainstreaming
Sustainable Land Management (SLM) in Nigeria's agricultural sector. The incremental GEF
funding will support the following activities that are fully integrated into the baseline SIL, the
Third National Fadama Development Program (Fadama III):

1) Component A: Capacity Building, Communications and Information Support. This
component will provide training and communications outreach on SLM planning and practice at
local, state and federal levels, multi-sector coordination on land management investment at state
and federal levels, training on local land use planning, as well as small community sub-project
awards for existing communities that are successfully implementing SLM sub-projects under the
baseline Fadama III operation.

2) Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation and Knowledge. This component supports
development of ecological and process monitoring tools, and also establishes a technical
knowledge base on SLM, sustainable agriculture and related climate risk.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD IV., and Annex 10

The Project falls into Environmental Category B as no adverse long-term impacts are
anticipated. The same safeguards policies are triggered by this incremental Project as by the
baseline Fadama III Project:

  (i) Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01),
  (ii) Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04),
  (iii) Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09),
  (iv) Forests (OP/BP 4.36),
  (v) Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50), and
  (vi) Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12).

The three safeguards instruments of ESMF, RPF and PMP that were prepared by the
Government for the baseline Fadama III Project were reviewed and cleared by the Bank for this
baseline Project. The safeguard instruments were re-disclosed in the country and the Bank's
InfoShop on December 1, 2009.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD III.F.

Board presentation: None.

Grant effectiveness conditions:
        The Project shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World Bank
           has been furnished to the World Bank that at least one Subsidiary Agreement has
           been executed on behalf of the Recipient and one Participating State, or that at least
           one Subsidiary Agreement concluded pursuant to the Financing Agreement dated


                                                viii
          November 24, 2008, between the Recipient and International Development
          Association for the Third National Fadama Development Project (Cr. 4494-NG) has
          been amended by the Recipient and one Participating State for the purpose of on-
          granting a portion of the proceeds of the Grant, under terms and conditions which
          shall have been approved by the World Bank.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:

          Implementation of the GEF incremental grant is fully integrated into the existing
          design and implementation arrangements of Fadama III; no additional institutional
          structures or lines of accountability will be created. The Fadama III project is already
          effective and under implementation. Its implementation covenants are fully complied
          with, FM and procurement manuals are in place and there are no policy exceptions.
          Implementation Covenants for the proposed GEF grant are therefore the same as for
          Fadama III:

          Standard requirements covering organization and staffing of program units,
          management arrangements, provisions for procurement, and financial management
          are sufficient.

          As with the Fadama III baseline project, the proposed incremental GEF Project will
          utilize the existing institutional structure of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and
          Rural Development, its federal and state level coordination offices as well as state
          ministries of agriculture without creating any add-on project implementation unit.
          Project management is currently based on a decentralized, demand-responsive
          structure that grants community organizations as much decision-making authority as
          possible, and promotes community ownership of and responsibility for operations and
          maintenance of infrastructure investments funded under the Fadama III baseline
          project.
          Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period: for payments to be made with respect to
          category (4) expenditures to any Participating State unless the Recipient has furnished
          to the World Bank evidence satisfactory to the World Bank that the concerned
          Participating State has: (i) duly established its FCAs in form and substance
          satisfactory to the World Bank; and (ii) the Subsidiary Agreement between the
          Recipient and the concerned Participating State has been duly executed by the parties
          thereto in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank




                                               ix
I.       STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

A.       Country and sector issues

BACKGROUND

1.     Seventy-six million rural Nigerians, mostly poor, are reliant upon natural wealth,
while incomes and productivity in the rural areas are low and stagnant. The economic and
ecological services provided by Nigeria's renewable natural resource base constitute the rural
poor's only safety net, while also serving as the foundation of the country's non-oil economic
growth and food security. As such, sustainable agricultural development depends on land
management practices that conserve soil and water, improve soil fertility and the biological
potential for productivity, while allowing communities to adapt to climate variability and future
change.2 Not only do such practices help deliver important local benefits, they also help secure
global environmental benefits such as carbon accumulation in biomass and soil, improved
nitrogen cycling, higher water tables, in-situ biodiversity, and general ecosystem function.

2.      Land is the key asset of the rural poor. How productive land is managed therefore
has implications for poverty alleviation and economic growth. Unsustainable land-use
practices in Nigeria's floodplains3 and other areas prone to land degradation, over-exploitation of
natural resources, and on-going climate variability all pose threats to maintaining the
productivity of agricultural lands, as well as ecosystem functions. Deforestation, large scale land
clearing, bush burning, and floodplain encroachment have taken place mainly for agricultural
production. This has resulted in severe gulley erosion in the south, desert encroachment in the
north, reduced vegetation cover, loss of valuable top soil, siltation of water bodies and flooding.
These and other forms of land degradation are directly impacting the sustainability of key
systems and livelihoods, and reducing the ability of rural communities to adapt to climate change
(see Annex 15).

3.      An estimated 5 percent reduction of agricultural GDP from on-farm soil erosion
alone is being felt. In some areas of southern Nigeria, this has caused yield reductions of about
30 percent to 90 percent (Mbagwu et al in IFPRI 2009). Including other forms of land
degradation as well as off-site costs would add to the overall economic cost. Land degradation
trends resist easy quantification at the national level (CEA 2006) given data constraints, but the
1990 Global Assessment of Soil Degradation4 estimated that 27 percent of Nigeria's land had
degraded sufficiently to affect productivity. This assessment estimates that approximately three
quarters of the Nigerian population live in areas with "severe or very severe" land degradation.
More recent analysis estimates about 90 percent of the total land area to be under some form of
soil erosion, which is severe in the northern states where overgrazing, strong winds and poor
vegetation cover lead to both water and wind erosion (Thiombiano and Tourino-Soto, 2007). The
2
  In a study published by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, an international team of scientists confirmed the rule of thumb
emerging among crop ecologists that for each 1 degree Celsius rise in temperature above the norm during the growing season,
farmers can expect a 10% decline in wheat, rice, and corn yield (S. Peng et al., Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
6 July 2004, pp. 9, 971­75).
3
  "Fadama" is a Hausa name for irrigable land, usually low-lying plains underlay by shallow aquifers found along major river
systems. They play an important role in the recharge of the shallow groundwater system through infiltration. Fadamas have
historically supported highly productive natural vegetation consisting of dense acacia scrubland, open grassland and seasonally or
permanently flooded open bodies of water supporting dense emergent vegetation. In addition to providing a source of water and
forage for pastoral livestock during dry season, Fadamas also support large and diverse resident or transient wildlife including
herbivores, carnivores and migratory birds, many of global significance.
4
  The widely cited Global Assessment of Human Induced Soil Degradation (GLASOD) was conducted for UNEP by the
International Soil Reference and Information Centre (ISRIC) at Wageningen University. Soil scientists were asked to categorize
soils degraded over the previous 45 years due to human intervention.
                                                                1
southern states also experience severe soil erosion due to the high rainfall and continuing
deforestation.

4.      The Government recognizes that land productivity is a key to achieving poverty
alleviation, food security, and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and that
further effort is urgently needed. Nigeria's 7 Point Agenda specifically includes land
degradation. The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) notes that from mid-70s to mid-90s there
was a nine-fold increase in degraded lands. It emphasizes that Nigeria's agricultural growth has
resulted in expansion of area cropped and recommends that the sector must shift to
intensification. To do that sustainably, improved land management practices such as establishing
grazing reserves, integrated nutrient management, soil conservation structures, and agro-forestry
need to be scaled up as part of an integrated approach to smallholder development.

5.       Many sustainable land management (SLM) practices have positive cost-benefit
ratios in agro-ecologies throughout Sub-Saharan Africa, yet adoption is low in Nigeria.5
Nigeria does benefit from some best-bet practices; for example, alley cropping using the trees
Gliricidia and Leucaena reduced soil erosion by 73 percent and 83 percent respectively, while
providing additional fodder, fuel, and nitrogen fixation. Erosion is also managed in Nigeria using
mechanical methods or structures which serve as barriers using stones or vegetation along
contour lines (Morgan 1995). These structures operate as filters, encouraging sedimentation,
increased infiltration, and formation of natural terraces (Lal, 1990). The perennial Vetiver grass
has served this purpose in many places in northern Nigeria (Malgwi, 1995) and is recommended
as an appropriate soil conservation technology for semi-arid zones as it also withstands climate
and land degradation risks such as denudation, fire, drought, and flood. These and other specific
SLM practices can deliver improved yield while sequestering carbon in soil and biomass (see
Annex 1 and Annex 4 para 17). In western Nigeria, no-tillage combined with mulch application
had a dramatic effect, increasing soil carbon from 15 to over 32 tonnes per hectare in 4 years
(Ringius, 2002). Not only is carbon sequestration critical for long-term climate stability, changes
in carbon present in soil and biomass are considered proxy indicators for overall ecosystem
function and land productivity and therefore the services that ecosystems deliver such as water
filtering, biodiversity, soil formation and fertility, and so on.

6.      Improving smallholder yield is also critical for slowing Nigeria's rapid land
conversions. Forest and savannah have provided much of the new cropland for Nigeria's
agricultural growth. The country now has the world's highest deforestation rate of primary
forests. From 2000 to 2005 the country lost 56 percent of its primary forests (FAO 2005).
Nigeria also has Africa's highest rate of total forest loss: 2.8 percent compared to a Sub-Saharan
average of 0.8 percent. The forest cover is now less than a third of what it was in the 1960s.
From 1990-1995, cropping expanded at an annual rate of 1.5 percent of the country's total land
area, with roughly 70 percent of this expansion at the expense of relatively carbon-rich areas
such as woody biomass in the savannah zones and forests in the east (World Bank 2005).
Cropland and rangeland productivity growth is needed to help reduce deforestation and
vegetation loss.

Barriers to adoption of sustainable land management practices

7.      The barriers to improved land and water management are centered on fragmented
institutions, knowledge, and awareness. One obstacle in Nigeria is the lack of detailed
5
 See Annex 1 appendix 3 for a cost-benefit analysis of SLM practices in Nigeria. See Annex 15 for a survey of climate risk
perceptions among rural communities and how they are adapting (or not) through land management.
                                                               2
knowledge about land degradation and climate risks, including soil fertility and erosion, open
access to grazing land, and deforestation rates. As a result, only limited progress has been
achieved in developing and disseminating sustainable and climate-smart agricultural land
management practices. Resource-conserving technologies such as use of crop rotations, agro-
forestry practices, and integrated crop-livestock systems have had low rates of adoption, either
because the technologies have been lacking, because farmer awareness has been low, advisory
services are under-capacitated or unavailable, or because incentives to adopt have been weak
(World Bank 2009). Fragmented institutional coordination, capacities, mandates, and policy
have together resulted in frequent policy shifts and disincentives such as poor land access and
overlapping or unclear ownership. These weaknesses are found at all levels, local to federal. One
effect of this fragmentation is that the capacity to implement SLM has been compromised,
resulting in, among other things, relatively weak leadership from the Nigerian government on
articulating its rural land management investment priorities across sectors. Institutional
performance is also hampered by knowledge gaps and fragmentation. For example, limited
classification of land use capabilities exists, research and extension is isolated from investment
and policy decision making, monitoring of the state of the land resource is poor, and the
scientific evidence base of land degradation and climate risks is outdated, based on unclear data,
or is anecdotal. Despite this, there are good SLM practices that can be scaled up (see Annex 1
and Annex 4 para 17).

8.      To better address these barriers, the federal government established a multi-sector
platform to improve investment programming across the many facets of land management.
Its National SLM Committee6 is actively building a coordinated program-based approach to
investment in land and water management. It is doing this by improving vertical and horizontal
coordination of institutions and sectors involved in investment planning, analytics, and policy.
The committee recognizes that land quality is critical to key sectors driving current and future
economic growth, and fundamental for ecosystem sustainability and to reduce climate risk. As
such, it aims to "expand the public sphere" around addressing land degradation and climate risk.
The Committee is beginning to develop an Investment Framework to prioritize costed
investments needed to bring SLM to scale to reduce risks from poor land management and
climate variability. This is being carried out with technical assistance from teams at New
Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) regional Secretariat and the World Bank in the
context of CAADP and the TerrAfrica partnership.

Government strategy

9.      The 7 Point Agenda prioritizes agricultural productivity while recognizing that
action is needed to improve soil fertility, land tenure, predictability and efficiency of public
sector funding, extension, environmental sustainability, and to "resuscitate Nigeria's fight
against land degradation." These findings and priorities are matched by an emerging body of
analytics and research, although key gaps persist in quantifying land degradation pressures,
states, and even responses, as well as specific climate change impacts on the productivity and
sustainability of specific rural land use systems. The 7 point agenda accords with Nigeria's
Vision 2020, the country's UN National Action Programme to Combat Desertification and the
National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS), which explicitly
recognizes the strategic importance of the agricultural sector and lists a number of special


6
 Includes Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Committee Chair, and includes CAADP focal point), Federal
Ministry of Environment, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the National Planning Commission, Nigeria Meteorological Agency,
and NEPAD Nigeria.
                                                            3
initiatives and targets that the federal government intends to pursue to promote increased
productivity.

Government and Bank investment response

10.      To help address these priorities, the Government, with Bank support, formulated
the $450 million baseline investment operation, the Third National Fadama Development
Project (Fadama III). The Fadama series has evolved over the years into a large-scale national
community-driven rural development program different from the predecessor operations, which
focused on floodplain agriculture in a limited number of States. The new project directly reaches
2.2 million households, or approximately 12 million individuals, with a proven government-led
implementation mechanism with nationwide reach and credibility. The operation is an important
opportunity for mainstreaming SLM to secure long-term sector goals. The existing Fadama III
operation aims to increase the incomes of users of rural land and water resources through
demand-driven investment and empowerment of local community groups to improve
productivity. Fadama III has six components: (1) capacity building, communications and
information support, (2) small-scale community infrastructure, (3) advisory services and inputs,
(4) extension services (ADPs), research and on-farm demonstrations, (5) asset acquisition for
economic interest groups (EIGs), (6) Project management and M&E. The Fadama III PAD
explicitly notes that SLM is part of the overall Project strategy. It further notes that this
incremental GEF grant will be fully integrated to help support the work on SLM. The IDA
package was approved on 1 July 2008 and Fadama III became effective on 23 March 2009. The
GEF grant described below provides incremental support to Fadama III components and 1 and 6
to improve the enabling environment for up scaling climate-smart SLM, particularly: knowledge
fertilization, environmental and institutional monitoring tools, institutional capacity building at
federal, state and local levels, and outreach and advocacy on SLM practice and policy. This
incremental support will help Nigeria upscale improved land and water management, and set the
stage for expanding SLM practice beyond the life of the Project, especially as current climate
variability will likely affect sector aspirations.

B.     Rationale for Bank and GEF involvement

11.    Bank Assistance Strategy. The Project is in line with the Nigeria Country Partnership
Strategy (Report No. 32412-NG), which is designed to support the implementation of Nigeria's
economic growth and poverty alleviation strategy as outlined in Vision 2020 and the NEEDS.
The Government requested the Bank's continued financial and technical partnership for the
Fadama III project, including the GEF increment.

12.    The GEF Project fills a strategic gap in the portfolio. The GEF support will enable the
Bank and the FGN to begin to integrate climate smart activities that extend the efficiency of land
and water resources in rural communities by promoting SLM, and in the process, deliver local
and global environmental benefits from reduced or avoided land degradation.


13.     Consistency with GEF programming. The Project will directly contribute to the
implementation of the GEF-4 Land Degradation Focal Area Strategy's Strategic Objectives 1
(enabling environment for SLM) and 2 (up scaling SLM among communities), as well as
Strategic Program 1 (support to sustainable agriculture and rangeland management). The GEF
financing will be drawn from the envelope secured for Sub-Saharan Africa by the World Bank-
led multi-agency GEF Strategic Investment Program for SLM in Sub-Saharan Africa (SIP). The

                                                4
SIP is a key activity of the AU-NEPAD TerrAfrica partnership. As such, the Project conforms to
the SIP principles7 and delivers on the SIP objectives and intermediate results 2, 3, and 4.

C.       Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

14.     Government objectives: The Project supports the government's strategic objective in its
7 Point Agenda to "enhance non-oil growth for increasing food security, reducing poverty, and
creating employment and livelihoods opportunities in rural areas, while improving
environmental sustainability." The Project will do so by contributing to an expansion in the area
of productive land under more sustainable management, and the number of people who could
potentially benefit from this expansion if they adopt SLM practices. Under the baseline Fadama
III operation, there are over 2.2 million households nationwide, already organized into
approximately 7400 Community Associations. The Project will also contribute to achieving the
goals of Vision 2020, the New Agricultural Policy (NAP) and the Rural Sector Strategy (RSS),
Nigeria's UNCCD National Action Programme, as well as regional initiatives in which Nigeria
participates including: the objectives of the AU-NEPAD Comprehensive African Agriculture
Development Program (CAADP), and the TerrAfrica Partnership. Lastly, the Project was
prepared with strong linkages to the FGN's on-going preparation of its multi-sector land
management investment framework in line with the efforts under CAADP pillar 1 and
TerrAfrica to improve medium-term investment programming.

15.      The GEF goal to secure global environmental benefits: The GEF support will
contribute to safeguarding the ecosystem services provided by intact production systems such as
floodplain cropping, grazing reserves or other community defined areas, generating intertwined
global and local environmental benefits in up to the existing 7400 participating Community
Associations throughout all of Nigeria's agro-ecological zones (depending on uptake of SLM
practices). These benefits accrue from the uptake of selected SLM practices (see Annex 1 or
Annex 4 para 17) that aim to maintain or expand vegetation cover, and improve soil quality and
water retention. Adoption of SLM in turn is dependent on improvements in the enabling
environment, which this GEF incremental grant helps directly finance. The benefits to be
delivered by the project vary, depending on type and rate of technology demanded by and
adopted by rural communities, the local land degradation and climate risks, and the agro-
ecological zone. The project will contribute to delivering global environmental benefits that
center on key primary ecosystem services from well-functioning production landscapes. These
include soil formation, carbon accumulation in soil and biomass, above and below ground
biodiversity from improved crop and range management as well as avoided deforestation,
improved ability of communities to adapt to climate variability and change, and lastly, improved
infiltration and freshwater availability in transboundary basins. Local environmental benefits to
be delivered by the operation center on secondary ecosystem services that result from the
primary ecosystem services and include food, fuel, fiber, fodder, and freshwater.




7
   The SIP principles are: (i) Country has demonstrated commitment to the SLM related objectives of NEPAD's environment
and agriculture programs (CAADP, EAP) and the ECOWAS Implementation Action Plan; (ii) The operation contributes to
reaching SIP results; (iii) The operation commits to using harmonized indicators and benchmarks to measure SLM scale up and
progress toward established goals at regional program level; (iv) The operation exceeds the 1:4 financial leveraging ratio for SIP
operations (GEF: non-GEF). The SIP is a key activity in the TerrAfrica joint work program, in which the Bank, Nigeria, GEF and
NEPAD actively participate.


                                                                5
II.        PROJECT DESCRIPTION

A.         Financing instrument

16.     Scaling Up SLM Practice, Knowledge and Coordination will be a three-and-a-half-year
incremental GEF grant to the Federal Republic of Nigeria focused on mainstreaming SLM in
Nigeria's agricultural sector. The GEF grant will be fully integrated into and coordinated with
the Fadama III operation.8 The two projects share the same structure, institutional set-up, and
implementation mechanisms. Fadama III is a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) designed to assist
the FGN in increasing rural income and reducing poverty in rural areas nationwide focused on
community-driven smallholder agricultural development and alternative livelihoods. Being fully
integrated, the GEF incremental grant will close at the same time. Fadama III has national scope
and operates in all 36 Nigerian States and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). It builds on
previous community development initiatives that covered a limited number of States.

17.     The GEF financed activities implemented at the state level will not cover all 36 States of
Nigeria. Instead, GEF support will focus only on those 30 States plus the FCT that do not yet
have institutional structures for cross-sectoral coordination and rural land use planning in place.
In the six States not covered by this grant (Imo, Kebbi, Kwara, Kogi, Ogun, and Bauchi), state-
level watershed committees have already been established. These state committees will operate
as sub-committees to the National SLM Committee, which is chaired by the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD). Consequently, these six States are excluded from
additional GEF investments in an effort to avoid duplication of existing state-level external
funding support for capacity building on SLM.


B.         Project development and global environment objective and key indicators

18.    The development and global environment objective of the GEF incremental grant is
to improve the enabling environment for scaling up sustainable land management in
participating communities.9 SLM practices allow communities participating in the Project to
reduce the threat of land degradation and climate risks facing their production lands.
    The key performance indicator for the GEF incremental grant is "Stakeholder
       perception of the enabling environment for sustainable land management." This indicator
       is reported as an increase in score on the tracking survey: Composite Index for the
       Enabling Environment for Sustainable Land Management (CI).

19.    The CI was developed under the regional GEF-SIP SLM umbrella and applied in Nigeria
during Project preparation to generate an initial baseline. The Composite Index is based on
similar indices for other themes. When the Project becomes effective, this baseline will be
updated by the NFCO and carried out annually to update the scores on the composite index. For
more on this tool, see paragraphs 42 and 43 and the detailed project description in Annex 4.

20.     Note that metrics to track global and local environmental impact and adoption rates of
SLM practices will be implemented as part of project sub-activities (see project component B),
and not as a project indicator. These metrics will help demonstrate the contribution (but not
attribution) of the GEF support to delivering local and global environmental benefits while

8
      Fadama III became effective in March 2009 and has a closing date of December 2013.
9
 The project development objective of the existing approved credit (with which the GEF incremental support will integrate) is to
increase the incomes of users of rural land and water resources.
                                                               6
contributing to local economic benefits of communities. Additionally, the indicator "land area
with SLM practices" will be tracked by this project to report on the outcomes of Country
Partnership Strategy II and the to the regional GEF-SIP umbrella. It will also help the Fadama III
baseline project to measure adoption rates of SLM practices under the Fadama III operation.
This indicator work appears below as an activity under Component B. An on-going survey will
establish the baseline values.

Beneficiaries

21.      An estimated 2.2 million rural poor households, organized into 7400 community
organizations, will potentially benefit from improved management of land and water
resources in Fadama III. Of these, 259,000 individuals are considered direct beneficiaries
of this incremental GEF Project. There are two groups of beneficiaries. Primary beneficiaries
of the GEF incremental grant are rural community groups10 exposed to the socio-economic and
environmental impacts of land degradation. Secondary beneficiaries include public and private
organizations at Federal, State, and local government levels that enable upscaling of climate-
smart land management. The results monitoring arrangements in Annex 3 quantify the relevant
targets.


C.       Project approach of the GEF grant

22.     The GEF grant will contribute to the above objectives by improving the enabling
environment necessary for greater adoption of SLM practices. This approach includes
building capacity and awareness for SLM practice and policy at national, state, and local levels
in order to stimulate demand for and leverage on-the-ground investments in the baseline loan that
will improve or protect land productivity. In particular, the GEF incremental grant funds the
development of a knowledge support network, strengthens the institutional environment for
investment programming, improves monitoring of land productivity, raises capacity of local
governments to carry out land use planning, and promotes inclusion of SLM practices and
alternative livelihoods strategies into communities' Local Development Plans (LDPs). An
innovative feature supporting awareness raising and mutual learning is the proposed Community
SLM Award, which is a grant award for those participating and eligible communities that
successfully implement the SLM activities identified their LDPs. Select SLM practices promoted
by the project are customized to Nigeria's main agro-ecologies, and help rural land users address
land degradation while also adapting to the adverse impact of climate change and climate
variability (see Annex 4 para 17 for table of eligible SLM practices). These practices also enable
farmers to accumulate carbon in soil and biomass. This is important, as long-term soil and
biomass carbon trends are considered a proxy for overall ecosystem function.

D.       Project components

23.     The GEF support is fully integrated into and coordinated with the IDA-financed
Fadama III operation, and reinforces its existing components 1 and 6 (see para 10 above).
Each component of the GEF grant is incremental to the respective "baseline" Fadama III project
component. The text below and in Annex 4 describe the GEF incremental support only. For more
details on the baseline Fadama III Project, see Annex 17.

10
   Communities are organized in economic interest groups (EIGs), which together form registered Community Associations, i.e.
an apex organization that represent the collective interests of the EIGs.
                                                              7
GEF Component A: Capacity Building, Communications and Information Support
(US$6.00m GEF, integrated with Component 1 of the Fadama III project)

24.     Background: Component 1 of the existing Fadama III project aims at building the
underlying capacity at federal, state, and local government levels to support innovations in local
development planning and provide the support structures for delivery of community demand-
driven investments in rural development. Communities are mobilized to form viable Economic
Interest Groups (EIGs) that are organized into a network of registered Community Associations
nationwide. Communications and training programs empower communities to prepare Local
Development Plans (LDPs). Capacities of Local Governments and other stakeholders such as
advisory service providers will be strengthened to better respond to the needs of their
communities and to improve decision-making, local development planning, and governance.

25.    Incremental GEF funding will support the following activities:

(a) Capacity building support for community organizations for local development planning
(US$1.29m GEF)

26.      The objective of GEF incremental funding to this sub-component is to strengthen local
development processes by raising capacity of stakeholders to include land degradation and
climate risks in rural development planning, particularly as affecting smallholder agricultural
production. Capacity building activities will target a wide spectrum of stakeholders, including
policy makers at national level, technical staff at State level, development planners and project
facilitators at local government level, extension services (the ADPs), and land users organized in
EIGs and Community Associations.

27.     Incremental GEF financing will be provided to develop a detailed SLM training program
and production of training material, customized for the specific awareness and capacity building
needs of the different stakeholder groups described above. GEF will also finance the competitive
recruitment of six SLM trainers at zonal level for the delivery of the SLM training sessions,
including production and dissemination of training material. These trainers will complement the
training and capacity building personnel to be financed under the baseline Fadama III project.
The cost of organizing and facilitating training for the wide audience of stakeholders to be
trained will be covered by financing from the baseline Fadama III project. GEF resources will
thus cost-effectively dovetail with the planned capacity building program.

28.      The provision of the six SLM trainers at zonal level follows a "train-the-trainers" model
to deliver the various capacity building activities within the planned training program of Fadama
III. These trainers will work with a broad audience including: SFCO Environment Officers and
Local Government Desk Officers seconded to the project, ADP staff, as well as the community
facilitators employed under Fadama III. Transferring knowledge on promising SLM technologies
to local community groups will empower them to better secure livelihoods, manage lands more
sustainably, and adapt better to the risks of climate change and variability. As part of their
duties, the six zonal SLM trainers will also serve as thematic advisors to stakeholders at State
and local government levels, to help them respond to the needs of their constituencies on
information and knowledge related to SLM. As such, the six Zonal SLM trainers will help build
a community of practice on climate-smart land and water management that can help stakeholders
replicate good activities post-project.


                                                8
(b) Capacity building of Local Governments for rural land use planning (US$1.51m GEF)

29.     The objective of incremental GEF funding to this sub-component is to build capacity of
Local Government Areas (LGAs) to carry out rural land use planning that balances the need for
maximization of productivity and long-term sustainability of land, water and forest resources.
Few, if any, LGAs are currently engaged in rural land use planning or natural asset mapping.

30.     Incremental GEF funding will support 62 LGAs to carry out participatory spatial
planning, and for a small package of Geographic Information System equipment. Existing local
knowledge on land capability and ecosystem resilience to climate variability will inform the
development of rural land use plans. Due to the limited GEF funding envelope, 62 LGAs (2 per
State for all eligible 30 States plus FCT) among the existing participating LGAs will be selected
based on agreed criteria (i.e. readiness, level of land degradation threats, etc.).

(c) Communications and advocacy (US$0.81m GEF)

31.     The objective of incremental GEF funding to this sub-component is to raise awareness of
stakeholders at all levels of SLM as a pragmatic way increase land quality and productivity,
control land degradation, and reduce climate change risks. These stakeholders include extension
and advisory service providers, community facilitators and groups, Local Governments, State
and National stakeholders, etc. The communication activities, in tandem with capacity building
activities described above, will play an important role in mobilizing land users to invest in SLM
practices under the existing demand-driven matching grant facility of the baseline Fadama III
project, as well as independent of project financing.

32.      Incremental GEF funding will support mainstreaming of SLM practice in the overall
sensitization campaign to be delivered under the baseline project. The GEF will finance the
development of an SLM communication strategy and advocacy modules for implementing it, and
will integrate these into the communication and training programs of Fadama III. The
communication modules will target land users, local authorities, national and state actors, and the
general public via media such as radio and TV, newspapers and other print media, etc. The GEF
Project will also finance development, production, and dissemination of the SLM related
communication and information material, some of which will need to be adapted to the specific
characteristics of the different agro-ecological zones of Nigeria as well as the specific needs of
the different States.

(d) National and State coordination on land and water management (US$0.48m GEF)

33.     The objective of this fully GEF funded subcomponent is to increase the effectiveness,
capability, transparency, accountability, and responsiveness of government and other
stakeholders to convene evidence and knowledge and improve investment programming on
climate-smart land and water management, and help mainstream SLM practice and policy into
State and National development planning. To guide this process, the Federal Government
established the multi-sector National SLM Committee (see para 8 above), chaired by FMARD.
This sub-component includes a suite of activities that build on the government's on-going
actions to develop a "public sphere," including the public sector, media, civil society, academia,
and producer and community associations. This approach can transform the way that projects
and programs are selected, designed and deliberated. It advocates for greater participation,
transparency and accountability across actors. This approach is seen as a vehicle for replicating
and scaling up SLM practices proven within the Fadama III project and elsewhere.

                                                9
34.     The GEF will finance activities to strengthen and equip the National SLM Committee to
build a nationwide coalition on climate-smart land and water management. This support includes
the continued preparation of its SLM Investment Framework11, associated workshops at policy
and technical levels and technical advisory services, establishment of secretariat functions,
website, communications, establishment of State SLM Committees, and technical assistance and
training on diagnostics and monitoring.

(e) Community SLM Award (US$1.91m GEF)

35.     The objective of this incremental GEF support is to strengthen incentives to already
participating communities in Fadama III to select and then fully implement community level
SLM activities. SLM activities are on the positive list of the Fadama III project and may be
included by community groups as part of their Local Development Plans (LDPs). However,
unless land degradation and climate risks are current and visible threats, SLM activities are not
always the most attractive options to communities because the SLM activities do not always
bring immediate income and can be perceived to generate mostly long-term public goods. A
second objective of the GEF support is to encourage knowledge fertilization among Fadama
stakeholders, which will help consolidate practitioners at the local level in indentifying which
interventions are working that could be scaled up.

36.     The GEF will therefore finance the Community SLM Award. This is a grant facility to
reward participating Fadama III communities that successfully implement SLM sub-projects that
have been financed under component 2 of the Fadama III operation. These sub-projects deliver
public goods and include grazing reserves, soil and water conservation, etc. (See Annex 4 para
17 for the defined list of eligible SLM practices), and typically require strong participation by
community members. Each award comes in the form of an additional complementary SLM sub-
project that a community then becomes eligible to implement, up to a value of $10,000 (with no
counterpart funding required). A total of 185 communities will receive the award, five from each
State and the FCT. The efforts of communities successfully implementing SLM sub-projects will
be visibly recognized through this additional award by linking to the communications and
outreach efforts.

GEF Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation, and Knowledge (US$0.80m financed by GEF,
integrated with Component 6 of the Fadama III project)

37.     Background: Component 6 of the existing Fadama III project will finance the cost of
project management and coordination, monitoring and impact evaluation, as well as the cost of
screening and ensuring environmental and social safeguards compliance.

38.    Incremental GEF funding will support the following activities (none include project
administration, which is fully covered by the baseline project):


11
   The SLM Investment Framework is a suite of prioritized on-going, pipeline, and future investments, and is accompanied by
other institutional support provided by this sub-component such as a knowledge and information system, M&E tools, and
associated institutional development at State and Federal levels (see component B which funds some of these). The SLM
Investment Framework allows the country to articulate a more focused investment agenda on cross-cutting land issues including
agricultural productivity, climate change, watershed management, and forest. This will form part of the country's CAADP
investment program, and is in line with the President's 7 Point Agenda, NEEDS, SEEDS, sector strategies, and the TerrAfrica
partnership under which support has already been provided.
                                                            10
39.     The objective of this incremental GEF funding is to enhance the SLM dimensions of the
M&E activities and Management Information System (MIS) financed under the baseline project.
Incremental funding will cover development and application of monitoring tools, an SLM
information system, and capacity building for implementing them. This work will allow
stakeholders to better monitor the land resource, changes in the enabling environment, and to
transfer knowledge. This in turn will strengthen and help sustain post-project impact, thereby
contributing to greater adoption of climate-smart land and water management.

      (a) Monitoring tools

40.       The GEF will finance the development and/or application of the following monitoring
tools:

41.      One monitoring tool is the Composite Index (CI) for the Enabling Environment for SLM.
This is the indicator used to track progress toward this project's global environment objective,
and was developed and applied during project preparation. This tool is a simple and low-cost
perception based survey among experts of the extent to which the enabling conditions for SLM
(institutions, financing, knowledge, etc) are improving or deteriorating. Because Fadama III has
nationwide reach and is itself mainstreamed into Federal, State, and Local governments, this tool
is applicable as an indicator for this project, as well as more generally to track Nigeria's
capacities to implement SLM over time. For more on this tool, see the detailed project
description in Annex 4.

42.    The CI is reported as an aggregate score made up of six components, which can be
reported on separately as needed: i) political support, ii) policy formulation such as land tenure,
decentralization, and multi-sectoral planning, iii) organizational structure, iv) financial resources
such as public expenditure trends, v) knowledge, monitoring and evaluation, and vi) legal and
regulatory environment. The scores break down into the following categories:

          Less than 0.10: The enabling environment in aggregate undermines scaling up of SLM.
          0.10 - 0.49: The enabling environment in aggregate does not adequately support scaling up of SLM.
          0.50 ­ 0.69: The enabling environment in aggregate fairly supports scaling up of SLM.
          0.70 ­ 1.00: The enabling environment in aggregate strongly supports scaling up of SLM.

The baseline and targets for the CI are as follows:

           Baseline value      Target values
           May 2010            Dec. 2010            Dec. 2011            Dec. 2012          Dec.2013
           Score: 0.323        Score: 0.323         Score: 0.400         Score: 0.500       Score: 0.600


43.     A second monitoring tool helps project officers and the government at large track
adoption rates and spatial coverage of specific SLM practices. This indicator, "land area with
SLM practices," will be tracked by this project to report on the outcomes of Country Partnership
Strategy II, baseline Fadama III operation, as well as the regional TerrAfrica SIP SLM umbrella
that provides this GEF financing. Adoption rates and hectares affected can be estimated from the
on-going comprehensive baseline household survey being carried out for the Fadama III project,
which will be repeated at mid-term and at project close. GEF incremental support will be
provided to compile the baseline data (and follow-on surveys at mid-term and project close) to
quantify adoption rates of SLM practices in the project area nationwide and estimate land area
benefitting from the eligible SLM practices (see table in Annex 4 para 17). This indicator will be
                                                       11
reported as a national aggregate of local and state level figures, broken down by: agro-ecological
zone, type of SLM practice, community level and household level. The GEF support is focusing
on improving the enabling environment and, as such, aims to influence adoption rates.

44.     A third monitoring tool will be developed to estimate the global and local environmental
benefits from the SLM practices tracked above. The patterns in the adoption rates tracked using
the tool described above will be used to quantify estimated global and local environmental
benefits accruing from the improved land management practices. These estimates will be derived
from co-efficient factors for environmental benefits (such as carbon and nitrogen balances, and
biodiversity) to be developed for each type of land management activity in each major agro-
ecology. To the extent possible, these co-efficients will be aggregated to report delivery of global
environmental benefits for the GEF and other interested parties. This tool will therefore allow
Project environmental and M&E officers to coarsely but cost-effectively estimate and predict
local and global environmental impacts deriving from specific SLM activities.

45.     A fourth monitoring tool to be refined and applied will track changes in land
productivity, land degradation, and overall ecosystem function nationwide. This tool will use
freely available satellite data to track net primary productivity to estimate overall land
degradation trends in rain-fed environments.12 The project will allow the government to apply
this indicator tool to the Nigerian context and develop capacity to use it across land use related
sectors. It will also help validate the estimates described above in the activity-based approach to
estimating environmental impacts.

      (b)SLM information system and knowledge base

46.    This GEF incremental support will co-finance the development of a comprehensive
national technical knowledge base and dynamic information system on climate-smart soil and
water conservation specific to Nigeria's agro-ecological zones. GEF will also finance capacity
support to ensure that the knowledge base is integrated into government decision making and
extension services across sectors. These functions will be linked to the existing project's
Management Information System, as well as databases, websites, and knowledge repositories of
key agencies (Agricultural Development Programs, etc).

47.     The aim is to overcome the highly fragmented nature of knowledge available in the
country and serve as a "one-stop shop" for knowledge and information on rural land and water
management practices including best-fit technologies, planning approaches, and so on. It would
aim to serve policy makers, technical staff including extension services and private advisory
service providers, as well as community practitioners. The knowledge base will further facilitate
improved investment programming as well as learning. As part of the knowledge base, a simple
geospatial tool for a general audience will be developed and applied. This will provide timely
information on climate and land risk factors (erosion, temperature, rainfall, etc), land use, land
use change, and other parameters. As the FMARD continues to digitize its soil erosion maps, and
climate assessments get underway, this work becomes increasingly important and useful.


E.       Lessons learned and reflected in the project design


12
  Net primary productivity, reported in amount of carbon, is based on the commonly known NDVI, which tracks changes in
vegetation cover. Net primary productivity is more applicable for monitoring land degradation and basic land productivity trends
because carbon is considered a proxy for overall ecosystem performance.
                                                              12
48.    GEF stand-alone investments in SLM and other focal areas have had limited success.
This calls for mainstreaming SLM objectives into broader rural development investment
programs that address and support the core functions of national and local development planning.

49.     Community demand-driven approaches have proven to be a robust and successful
delivery mechanism in Nigeria to reduce rural poverty, increase food security and rural economic
diversification. Throughout Africa, community led strategies have proven critical for SLM to
take root and spread, in particular in rain-fed farming systems, and this is the opportunity for
Nigeria.

50.    Scope of response. Prior and ongoing responses to land degradation in Nigeria have not
matched the scale of the problem. This is even truer when climate vulnerabilities and risks to
productive land assets are taken into account.

51.     Knowledge gap. While there is high awareness throughout the country on the
detrimental impact and threats posed by land degradation to agricultural productivity and rural
livelihoods, and emerging evidence of accurate community perception of climate impacts on
land productivity, there is very low awareness and knowledge on successful SLM approaches
and technologies that respond to land degradation and climate change risks, while providing
livelihood benefits. There are some good examples, however, that can be scaled up. Monitoring
tools (on process and on impact) need to be provided and applied to quantify the successes.

52.     SLM has a weak position in an under capacitated advisory services system. IFPRI's
impact study of CDD programs in Nigeria13 finds that while CDD programs have significantly
increased incomes of beneficiaries and successfully targeted the poor and vulnerable with
productive asset acquisition, they have also reduced the demand for soil fertility management
technologies, and instead increased demand for post-harvest handling technologies. This likely
reflects the earlier projects' focus on promoting post-production advisory services. This calls for
strengthening capacities in SLM technologies and approaches among public and private advisory
service providers to reduce risks to production from natural resource degradation and climate
variability and change.

53.    Cross-sectoral coordination. Efforts to address land degradation and climate risk could
have greater impact by improving operational coordination across sectors on policy and
investment design and implementation, better linking research and extension with one another
and with investment and policy communities, strengthening local awareness and ownership, and
involving communities in technology selection and monitoring. Such coordination, vertically and
horizontally, includes some transaction costs, which can be onerous for a developing country
with limited budget. However, the benefits can outweigh these costs, and operational
coordination is critical for working in cross-cutting themes such as land and climate.

54.     Lessons from Fadama II. Although Fadama III design and implementation builds on the
good experiences of Fadama II, there are additional lessons learned from the GEF support to
Fadama II which focused on integrated ecosystem management. In particular, the new additional
GEF support now (i) more explicitly focuses on reducing climate risk; (ii) takes into
consideration the financial sustainability of the recommended SLM sub-projects (see Annex 1 on
costs and benefits, and table of eligible SLM practices in Annex 4 para 17); (iii) enhances the
role of six state-level watershed committees to be upgraded to become involved in state-level
13
   World Bank, 2008, From the Ground up: Impacts of a Pro-Poor Community-Driven Development Project in Nigeria,
Agriculture and Rural Development Discussion Paper 40.
                                                          13
investment planning and policy; (iv) fully integrated GEF-financed SLM activities in the
mainstream Fadama III implementation structure (i.e., no parallel implementation).

F.     Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

55.    The proposed project design aims for maximum mainstreaming and leverage
opportunities for a comparatively small GEF grant ($6.8 million) compared to the $450 million
baseline budget of IDA plus counterpart financing for Fadama III. To achieve this goal, the
following alternative design options were considered and rejected:

56.     Nationwide coverage versus focus on three pilot States: At the project concept stage,
the GEF grant was designed to target only three selected States within Nigeria. The GEF grant
would have served as a parallel or add-on financing to the CDD delivery mechanisms established
under the baseline project and would have served to cover the cost of community level
investments into SLM interventions. Given the limited scope of GEF funding, on-the-ground
investments and environmental impact would have been limited to a small number of sub-project
sites within the three selected States. This initial design would have allowed limited
opportunities for up-scaling SLM practices and few if any impact in other States. This option
was rejected in consideration of the enormous opportunity for mainstreaming environmental
objectives into a flagship baseline rural development program, Fadama III, that is expected to
reach 2.2 million beneficiary households across Nigeria, and that is already deeply part of
existing federal and state government implementation structures and priorities. The potential for
a lasting impact on the enabling environment to drive and monitor SLM scale up is great.

57.      Focus on mainstreaming versus parallel pilot investments: Instead of creating parallel
pilot investments, the proposed GEF project design takes advantage of the opportunity to
mainstream environmental objectives by relying on the nationwide implementation structure of
Fadama III. This structure is proven to be robust, and has been adapted and fine-tuned to the
Nigerian context over the last 10 years. Relying on the already existing matching grant facility
for community driven development sub-projects provides an opportunity for substantive
investments in SLM practices across all of Nigeria. A high leveraging potential can be achieved
if beneficiary communities are assisted in identifying SLM technologies with immediate or
short-term economic returns and longer-term environmental benefits. As such, the proposed
project hinges upon the assumption that the access to advisory services that can credibly promote
profitable SLM technologies and knowledge sharing will incentivize community groups to
prioritize SLM activities in local development planning. Innovative features of the project, such
as an implementation award grant for communities implementing SLM practices under Fadama
III, will strengthen outreach and awareness-raising.

58.      Focus on barrier removal, rather than on pilot demonstration investments: Previous
efforts to scale up SLM by investing in pilots in critical ecosystems were designed to
demonstrate the multiple benefits of SLM and serve as a catalyst for replication. However,
experience has shown that demonstration investments have fallen short of meeting expectations
due to failure to address an entrenched set of barriers. Key barriers to SLM include: fragmented
institutional coordination, capacities, and mandates, policy as well as knowledge gaps. These
barriers result in persistent institutional underperformance and hinder greater adoption of SLM.
Accordingly, the proposed design of the GEF project places a strategic focus on reducing these
barriers by enhancing capacities and knowledge to promote greater adoption of SLM practices.



                                               14
59.     Support an implementation award grant rather than limited top-up financing for
Fadama III's existing matching grant facilities: It was considered to provide ring-fenced GEF
financing for SLM sub-projects through the existing matching grant facilities of Fadama III
Project components 2 and 5. Ring-fencing is a term for earmarked financing. Ring-fenced
financing can be desirable because SLM practices sometimes become economically viable only
in the long-term and/or can generate predominantly off-farm benefits. This particular ring-
fencing option was rejected for several reasons: (i) The limited scope of the GEF resource
envelope would have resulted in a comparatively small ring-fenced grant facility with little
added impact; (ii) Further, the prospect for sustainability and potential for self-financed uptake
and replication by other farmers across Nigeria would have been low for SLM activities without
competitive short-term profitability. As a result, the strategic focus of the GEF support for
improved practice in the field centers on providing a reward for communities that implement
SLM activities successfully under the Fadama III project, combined with associated knowledge
and institutional development. This will help build awareness while incentivizing greater
adoption of SLM and helping mainstream SLM into community local development plans and
local government planning.

III.   IMPLEMENTATION

A.     Institutional and implementation arrangements

60.     Implementation of the GEF incremental grant is fully integrated into the existing
design and implementation arrangements of Fadama III; no additional institutional
structures or lines of accountability will be created. The GEF grant provides an additional
financing source for a number of incremental activities mainly pertaining to institutional capacity
development, communication and awareness raising, knowledge fertilization, M&E tools, and
technology promotion -- all of which together aim to improve the enabling environment for
scaling up SLM. As such, Components A and B of the incremental GEF grant reinforce existing
components 1 and 6 of the baseline Fadama III project, respectively.

61.   Implementation responsibilities for GEF-financed activities are summarized below by
sub-component:

62.     Implementation of Component A. Sub-component A1, Capacity Building for
Community Organizations, is implemented at the federal/zonal level under the lead of NFCO
using the train-the-trainers approach. SLM Trainers are deployed to the Project's existing 6
coordination zones (with approximately 6 States per zone), but administratively report to the
NFCO. Implementation responsibilities for sub-component A2, Capacity Building for Local
Governments for Rural Land Use Planning, are at local government level and guided by Local
Fadama Desks (LFDs). 62 Local Governments have been selected for support with rural land
use planning support under the GEF grant. For Sub-components A3, Communication and
Outreach, and A4, National and State Coordination on Land and Water Management, depending
on the specific activity, implementation responsibilities are split between the federal level under
the lead of NFCO and the state level under the lead of the SFCO. Activities financed through the
small grant mechanism under sub-component A5, Community SLM Award, will be implemented
at community level by FCAs with support from LFD. Exactly as with the arrangements for the
flow of funds under the baseline Fadama III operation, Sub-project Agreements for the
Community SLM Awards will be entered into directly between the relevant SFCO and the
Fadama Community Associations. The NFCO and SFCOs will retain a small operating budget to
administer the Award process. Award ceremonies at zonal level will be carried out by NFCO in

                                                15
coordination with SFCOs. The SFCOs will monitor implementation of awarded sub-project
grants as per usual procedures under the baseline Fadama III project.

63.    Implementation of Component B. Both sub-Components B1, Monitoring Tools, and
B2, SLM Information System and Knowledge Base, are fully implemented at the federal level
under the lead of NFCO.

64.    As described above, implementation arrangements for the GEF financed activities simply
build on the implementation arrangements in place for the baseline Fadama III project. These are
summarized in the paragraphs below (see Annex 6 for further details on implementation).

65.    The Project utilizes the existing institutional structure of the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD),14 its federal and state level coordination
offices as well as state ministries of agriculture, without creating an add-on project
implementation unit.

66.    Executing Agency. The FMARD will have overall responsibility for execution of the
Project through the National Program for Agriculture and Food Security (NPAFS).15 NPAFS
has delegated responsibility for day-to-day implementation coordination at the national level to
the National Fadama Coordination Office (NFCO).

67.    At the Federal level, the FMARD is the Ministry responsible for agriculture and has
primary implementation responsibility for this Project. The ministry's NPAFS, through the
NFCO, coordinates project activities on behalf of the ministry. At the highest level in the
Ministry, the National Fadama Technical Committee (NFTC), is a sub-committee of the Federal
Agricultural Development Program Executive Committee (FADPEC), is responsible for Project
oversight, overall policy guidance, coordination with other projects, strategic direction, and
review and approval of the annual work program and budget of the NFCO.

68.    At the State level, the State ministries responsible for agriculture have delegated day-to-
day implementation and coordination of the Project to the State Fadama Coordination Office
(SFCO), while the oversight, policy, and strategic orientation functions of the Project are
performed by the State Fadama Technical Committee (SFTC), which is a Sub-Committee of the
Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee (ADPEC). SFTC is chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of the State ministries of agriculture, and will meet every six months, to
review and approve work plans and budgets.

69.     At the Local Government level, a Local Fadama Desk (LFD) and Local Fadama
Development Committee (LFDC) have been established. The LFDC and the LFD (as its
Secretariat) are responsible for local level review and approval of sub-projects financed under
the Fadama III project. The Project provides consultant services to the LFDC in order to provide
quality assurance support to local development plans and sub-projects submitted for review and
approval by LFDC. A typical LFD comprises one or two civil servants, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to SFCO, seconded to the Project to play the role of a clearing house for
LDPs.

14
   As of May 2010, the FGN has split the FMAWR into two entities: the FMARD and FMWR. The new FMARD is now
considered the implementing federal ministry for this Project as well as the baseline Fadama III Project.
15
   Under the new harmonized and consolidated arrangement for multilateral donor assisted projects, the National Program for
Agriculture and Food Security (NPAFS) of the FMARD now has responsibility to coordinate Fadama III and all other sector
operations including the GEF incremental grant to Fadama III. NPAFS supplants the NFRA in this responsibility.
                                                             16
70.    At the Community level, critical decisions take place within the Fadama Community
Associations (FCAs) and the various economic interest groups (EIGs), which constitute them.
These community associations are apex organizations of EIGs. They identify, prepare, execute,
supervise, operate, and maintain their sub-projects. A team of facilitators and other specialists
has been deployed to provide related and necessary technical assistance and training support.

71.      Project implementation procedures. The Project has adopted a phased approach to
implementation of multi-year LDPs and associated sub-projects. The starting point of the LDP
process is the Community Needs Assessment, using the Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA)
approach, which describes the socioeconomic setting of the community and the social-mapping,
constructs the livelihood profiles, identifies the relevant technical, physical, environmental, and
institutional constraints, leading to the development of a set of proposals designed to overcome
these constraints.

72.     Financial Management Arrangements. The Financial Management Department (FMD)
of the NFCO and Project Financial Management Units (PFMU) are responsible for managing the
financial affairs of the project at the federal and state levels, respectively. The implementing
entities are compliant with the Bank's financial management requirements; and there are no
overdue audit reports and interim financial reports from these entities. The FMD/NFCO and
PFMUs are staffed by qualified accountants and internal auditors. The FMD/NFCO are also
responsible for ensuring compliance with the financial management covenants of the Financing
Agreement and requirements of the government, including forwarding the quarterly unaudited
interim financial reports and audited annual financial statements to IDA. The Federal
Government is in the process of establishing the Federal Project Financial Management Division
(FPFMD), which would call for some adjustments in these arrangements in future.

73.    For the GEF incremental grant, disbursement procedures described in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook will be followed. With view to flow of funds and banking
arrangements, IDA will disburse the Grant proceeds through a US Dollar denominated
Designated Account. The project will however maintain a Naira draw down account in local
commercial bank where the project is being implemented. The FMD/NFCO and PFMU will
maintain adequate FM arrangements to support the deployment of Project resources in an
economic, efficient and effective manner to achieve the stated development objectives. The
arrangements will also provide relevant information to NFTC and SFTC to facilitate the
performance of their oversight functions. Subsequent to the establishment of the FPFMD, these
arrangements will be accordingly adjusted.

74.     Project Implementation Manual. Overall implementation of the Project will follow
detailed procedures defined in the existing PIM for Fadama III. An addendum to the PIM has
been prepared to guide implementation of incremental activities supported by the GEF Grant.

75.     Supervision. Supervision for the GEF incremental grant and the Fadama III project will
be carried out as one unified exercise, in line with the fully integrated nature of the GEF-
financed activities. A strategic and comprehensive Supervision Plan is outlined in Annex 6B of
the already approved PAD for Fadama III.




                                                17
B.     Monitoring and evaluation

76.     The NPAFS, through the NFCO, has overall responsibility for M&E, working in
close collaboration with the SFCO M&E units and LGA Project Desks. These decentralized
units feed Project-related data from the local governments and the communities directly into the
central M&E system at NFCO, which consolidates the monitoring and evaluation reports and
include them in the quarterly, bi-annual, and annual progress reports. These reports are submitted
to NFTC and Bank for review and further action. A results-based monitoring and learning
system is being developed for the Fadama III project to improve real time monitoring of the
entire Project cycle. The GEF incremental project will rely on this, while strengthening the
monitoring of environmental trends by project officers. The current M&E system of the baseline
Fadama III project consists of self-monitoring at the community level, input-output monitoring
through an MIS, a process monitoring system, a dedicated knowledge management system (to be
strengthened on SLM with GEF support), and impact evaluation. GEF support also adds, among
other things, a spatial analysis function through GIS at the national level.

77.     Impact evaluation will be carried out in three stages by an independent agency. The cost
is borne by the IDA support but the substance is relevant to evaluate the effectiveness of GEF
incremental support as well. This impact evaluation will assist in determining progress toward
local and global environmental public goods. A baseline survey is underway to assess pre-project
conditions in the Project areas. The second stage will coincide with the mid-term review (MTR)
of the Project. The third stage, coinciding with the end of the Project, will evaluate the impact
and outcome indicators. The baseline survey includes a detailed household survey, which will
measure livelihood impact at the household and community levels, degree of use of SLM
practices and climate risk reducing measures, and decision factors within communities for long-
term investments in land.


C.     Sustainability and replicability

78.     The sustainability of Project depends on the sustainability of Fadama III, because
the two projects are fully integrated with one another. The sustainability of Fadama III
depends on ownership and commitment of recipients, financial and technical soundness of sub-
projects, financial sustainability of the income-generating investments, capacity of communities,
and the stability of the social, economic, and political environment. The discussion on
sustainability and replicability in the approved PAD for Fadama III is summarized below.

79.     Financial sustainability of the Fadama III sub-projects. The sustainability of Fadama
III, and therefore the incremental GEF support, hinges upon the ability of Fadama III to deliver
benefits at the grassroots level. This in turn depends first and foremost on the financial soundness
of the sub-projects during the early design stage. Adoption of a selected technology is generally
sustainable, if it: (a) is adapted to the needs and capacities of smallholders; (b) requires
relatively low investment and maintenance costs; (c) has a direct impact on labor and land
productivity as well as on rural revenues; and (d) has a ready market that shows profitability ex
ante under reasonable conditions.

80.     Ownership and recipient commitment. The establishment of Local Development Plans
is participatory and increases the likelihood that community needs, perspectives, and ownership
are internalized. In addition, sustainability will be enhanced through: (i) innovations in local
planning at the community level; (ii) integration of community plans in the local government-

                                                18
planning program; and (iii) improvements in good governance and organizational capacity of
local governments (both elected officials and line department staff) at the district level. GEF
incremental support for land use planning in 62 targeted Local Governments (2 each in 30 States
plus FCT) will enhance sustainability.

81.     Capacity of communities and beneficiary associations. The GEF support will make
significant investments in capacity building through training and technical assistance on SLM.
In addition, the investments in capacities of extension and service providers, local governments,
and community facilitators will contribute enhance the supply side of advisory services.

82.     Enabling institutional environment. The emphasis on knowledge, communication, and
capacity development by the GEF Project, combined with investment dialogue and planning,
enhances the visibility of the Project's results and thereby increases government commitment to
the Project and its approach. At Federal level, this commitment is already reflected in
government's strategy and macroeconomic and sectoral policies, such as the 7 Point Agenda,
Rural Sector Strategy, Vision 2020, and National Economic Empowerment and Development
Strategy (NEEDS). In addition, project support will be used to strengthen the capacity of
government at community, local, state, and federal levels to manage SLM implementation and
investment decisions. The state, local, and community entities involved will participate in
training on participatory approaches, conflict management, M&E, and environmental and social
assessments.

83.    The National SLM Committee will provide a platform outside the scope of daily Project
management to engage a broader range of stakeholders on land use and management issues, and
provide policy and investment alignment across sectors that builds on the experiences of Fadama
III. The SLM Committees includes: the FMARD (Committee Chair), the FMF, NPC, the FME,
NIMET, and NEPAD Nigeria. Further interaction is taking place with civil society and State
Ministries involved in agriculture, rural development, water resources, and environment, relevant
Nigerian research institutions, farmer associations, and NGOs. The National SLM Committee is
preparing Nigeria's SLM Investment Framework, which will articulate the country's vision for
climate-smart land and water management investment. By consolidating all SLM activities in the
country as one government-led portfolio, the framework will quantify current and future
financing for realizing this vision over the medium to long term. In this way, individual
investment projects, including Fadama, can better sustain impacts and message post-project. This
approach will provide an effective platform for extending good practice from Fadama III and
other experiences to future investment operations and budget planning in Nigeria, helping
extend Project replicability and sustainability.

84.    Sustained demand and adoption of SLM approaches and technologies. The strategic
approach of the GEF project is based on the assumption that engagement and mobilization of
communities, complemented by technical support services, is fundamental to creating
community awareness on the short- and long-term economic benefits and ecosystem services
from improved land and water management. In this way, this approach is meant to help stimulate
demand for public and private investments in ensuring that production systems sustain ecosystem
functions. Incremental GEF support will mainstream SLM and climate resilience objectives into
LDPs and rural land use plans, as well as State and Federal investment planning and policy
dialogues and monitoring of the land resource. This will help mainstream SLM principles in the
broader development agenda at all levels of government administration.



                                               19
D.      Partnership arrangements

85.     The World Bank along with NEPAD's TerrAfrica Partnership (which the Bank helped
found with NEPAD and now participates in) are providing technical support to the FGN in its
on-going effort to strengthen investment programming on land use and management via national
coordination and multi-sector, multi-State dialogue on investment priorities. Associated work to
build institutional capacity to carry out this agenda is further supported under Project component
A. The World Bank, IFPRI and TerrAfrica are also engaged in complementary work to
strengthen the analytical underpinnings for scaling up SLM, including a review of public
expenditure, costs, and benefits of land management interventions, using the Niger basin cases of
Cross River, Sokoto, and Niger States. The GEF contribution to the Project falls under the
umbrella of the multi-agency GEF Strategic Investment Program (SIP) for SLM in Sub-Saharan
Africa, which was developed by the World Bank and NEPAD with TerrAfrica partners. Twenty-
five African countries participate.

E.      Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

86.    Financial sustainability. Sub-projects will derive from Local Development Plans and
are thus demand-driven and socially inclusive. Communities will make a commitment to a
withholding of at least 10 percent of the replacement value of the common asset of an EIG
annually, which will be saved in a capitalization/revolving fund. Design of the sub-projects for
income generation will include plans for marketing and assessment of profitability. Sub-projects
for community-owned, small-scale infrastructure, and EIG-owned assets will include an
operations and maintenance (O&M) plan. Technical assistance and training will be given to the
EIGs as well as their apex Community Associations.

87.     Community demand for SLM. It is critical that community-driven investments in SLM
practices are economically viable and competitive, suitable for the relevant agro-ecological zone,
and socially acceptable. A number of SLM practices match these criteria, and the project is
putting in place a comprehensive program to build awareness, knowledge, and eventually
demand for SLM practices that meet these criteria. The Project will support a multi-layered
capacity building program for agents of change at national, state, local government and
community level. Communities will further have access to public and private advisory services,
specifically trained on short-term profitable, scalable SLM practices. Awareness raising and
communication campaigns on the social, economic, and environmental benefits of SLM will
accompany capacity building efforts.

88.     Additional risks that are most relevant to the GEF incremental grant are
summarized in the table below, along with the mitigation measures. For risks already identified
for the baseline Fadama III operation, see that PAD.

Risk Mitigation Measures:

Risks                             Risk Mitigation Measures                                       Risk Rating
                                                                                                 with
                                                                                                 Mitigation
To project development and
global environment objective
1. Community demand for           1. Provision of advisory services with focus on short-term     Moderate
   investments in SLM practices      profitable, scalable SLM technologies and enterprises, as

                                                     20
Risks                                Risk Mitigation Measures                                           Risk Rating
                                                                                                        with
                                                                                                        Mitigation
     remains low.                       well as capacity development, information, communication
                                        on social, economic, ecological and climate benefits of
2. Government commitment to a           SLM.
   more programmatic and
   participatory approach to scale   2. Ongoing technical support to the national land
   up integrated land/water             management investment platform through the TerrAfrica           Low
   management investment falters        Partnership and ongoing WB dialogue with cabinet level
   due to shifts in policy              policy makers, including the SLM Steering Committee.
   approach and orientation.
                                     3. Adequate FM arrangements, external audit and combined
3. Failure to maintain robust           IDA/GEF supervision will be provided all through the life
   Project Financial Management         of the project. These are established already in the baseline   Moderate
   systems and weak procurement         project approved by the Bank Board. The existing Fadama
   and contract administration          III FMARD/NPAFS/NFCO has the responsibility to
   capacity.                            implement this incremental GEF grant, and its procurement
                                        and contract administration procedures that are considered
                                        to be generally of good quality, reliable, timely, and
                                        transparent with few corrective actions needed by the Bank
                                        as agreed with the FGN in the Procurement Action Plan.

     Overall                                                                                            Moderate

F.        Grant conditions and covenants

89.       Grant effectiveness conditions:
           The Project shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World Bank
             has been furnished to the World Bank that at least one Subsidiary Agreement has
             been executed on behalf of the Recipient and one Participating State, or that at least
             one Subsidiary Agreement concluded pursuant to the Financing Agreement dated
             November 24, 2008 between the Recipient and the International Development
             Association for the Third National Fadama Development Project (Cr. 4494-NG) has
             been amended by the Recipient and one Participating State for the purpose of on-
             granting the proceeds of the Grant, under terms and conditions which shall have been
             approved by the World Bank.

90.      Implementation Covenants: Implementation of the GEF incremental grant is fully
integrated into the existing design and implementation arrangements of Fadama III; no additional
institutional structures or lines of accountability will be created. The Fadama III project is
already effective and under implementation. Its implementation covenants are fully complied
with, FM and procurement manuals are in place and there are no policy exceptions.
Implementation Covenants for the proposed GEF grant are therefore the same as for Fadama III:

               Standard requirements covering organization and staffing of program units,
               management arrangements, provisions for procurement, and financial management
               are sufficient.
               As with the Fadama III baseline project, the proposed incremental GEF Project will
               utilize the existing institutional structure of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and
               Rural Development, its federal and state level coordination offices as well as state
               ministries of agriculture without creating any add-on project implementation unit.
               Project management is currently based on a decentralized, demand-responsive
               structure that grants community organizations as much decision-making authority as
                                                        21
           possible, and promotes community ownership of and responsibility for operations and
           maintenance of infrastructure investments funded under the Fadama III baseline
           project.
           Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period: (b) for payments to be made with respect
           to category (4) expenditures to any Participating State unless the Recipient has
           furnished to the World Bank evidence satisfactory to the World Bank that the
           concerned Participating State has: (i) duly established its FCAs in form and substance
           satisfactory to the World Bank; and (ii) the Subsidiary Agreement between the
           Recipient and the concerned Participating State has been duly executed by the parties
           thereto in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank

IV.        APPRAISAL SUMMARY

A.     Technical

91.    The concept of community empowerment embodied in the CDD approach is based on
successful experiences in Nigeria as well as successful programs in Niger, India, Pakistan, Kenya
and other countries. Building on predecessor programs, the CDD approach has been well
accepted at the state and local government levels in Nigeria.

92.     A potential technical issue is the limited awareness and experience of community groups
to prepare technically sound sub-projects under the baseline Fadama III project. The GEF
Project, however, is strategically designed to address this knowledge and capacity gap by
promoting exchanges of knowledge on SLM practices. Lessons show that the appropriate mix of
training, technical assistance, outreach and community engagement spurs communities to action.


93.     The capacity of FMARD is adequate. As with Fadama III, FMARD will have overall
responsibility for execution of the Project. For overall project coordination, FMARD will
delegate the functions and responsibilities of day-to-day implementation coordination to a
strengthened NFCO. State-level ministries of agriculture will have overall responsibility for
implementing the project at the state level. It will delegate responsibility for the day-to-day-
coordination of implementation of the project to the SFCOs.

B.     Fiduciary

94.     Financial Management. The implementing entities are compliant with the Bank's
financial management requirements; and there are no overdue audit reports and interim financial
reports from these entities. The Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability
Review (PEMFAR), of 2006, showed that the Federal Government has made significant efforts
to advance the reform of Public Financial Management (PFM) system since 2003. There is,
nevertheless, much more to be done and PFM initiatives and reforms are articulated in the
Government's NEEDS, which are supported under the CPS, specifically through the three Bank-
assisted projects; EMCAP ­ closed December 2007, SGCBP and the ERGP.

95.     Major achievements so far have been: (i) the adoption of an oil-based fiscal rule that has
greatly improved the quality of macroeconomic management; (ii) launching of significant steps
toward increased transparency of the budget process; (iii) more efficient cash management; (iv)
procurement reforms; (v) updating the legal framework for PFM; (vi) reallocation of budget
resources in support of MDG-related government functions; (vii) strengthening monitoring and

                                               22
evaluation; and (viii) introducing a more strategic longer-term focus in budget management. This
has clearly helped to reduce waste of public resources, particularly on the capital budget and the
payroll. The impact of these early measures is also evident in significantly improved fiscal and
broader macroeconomic outcomes.

96.     Financial management services to the Federal and State level units responsible for the
implementation of the project will be provided respectively through the FPFMD and the state
PFMUs. At the FPFMD, the Project Accountant for Fadama III will provide technical guidance,
support and quality control for effective management to the designated finance officer. The State
PFMUs will include responsibility for the GEF operation in the TOR for the Fadama III Project
Accountant. The FM arrangements for the project are designed to: (i) ensure that funds are used
only for the intended purposes; (ii) ensure the production of timely information for project
management and government oversight; and (iii) facilitate compliance by the project with IDA
fiduciary requirements. As known during the appraisal for Fadama III, the overall FM risk in the
project is Substantial. Various measures to mitigate FM risks have been agreed, including
implementation of the actions outlined to strengthen the financial management system. It is
envisaged that with these measures in place, the overall FM risk will be minimized to a residual
moderate level, which is manageable. The project Financial Manual for Fadama III, which
details the internal control framework and risk management strategy, will apply in the project to
keep the substantial risk attributed to the project under constant check. An addendum to the FPM
will be prepared to document issues specific to the project. The FM risks identified will be
reduced with the implementation of the mitigation measures recommended in Annex 7. Regular
reporting arrangement and supervision plan will also ensure implementation of the project is
closely monitored and appropriate remedial actions taken expeditiously. The implementing
agencies are compliant with the Bank's financial management requirements; and there are no
overdue audit reports and interim financial reports from these entities. Guidelines on Preventing
and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Project Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants, dated October 15, 2006 shall apply to the Project.

97.     Procurement. Procurement would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 24, revised October
2006 and May 2010; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated May 24 2004, revised October 2006 and May 2010. In 2000, a Country
Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was conducted and it identified procurement capacity
in the Public Sector as weak. Since then, substantial progress has been made both at the federal
and at the state levels, to improve this weak capacity. Through an IDA Credit, the Economic
Reform and Governance Project, which has a substantial component on procurement reforms,
and an IDF Grant, the Bank has been assisting the government to address this weak capacity and
build appropriate partnership with the private sector. Though most of the required tools
(procurement codes and implementing regulations, national procurement manuals, national
standard bidding documents) are being finalized, most of the elements therein are being
implemented using the provisions of the revised Financial Regulations. Improvement in public
procurement practice, especially at the federal government level, has reached advanced stage
with the recent enactment of the Procurement Bill and the setting up of the Bureau of Public
Procurement. Public expenditure has been more efficient and cost-effective.

98.     All the 36 states and FCT have experience in implementing Bank-financed agricultural
projects in the past. Twelve states implemented the Fadama II Project (now closed) where
intensive efforts were made by the Bank to build their procurement capacity. However, technical
assistance to improve on the level of procurement capacity in the remaining 24 states not

                                               23
involved in Fadama II Project will be required. In this regard, each State MOA/ADP has
assigned/designated a qualified procurement officer (PO) among the staff of the state Ministry of
Agriculture, who will further receive additional procurement training on Bank financed
procurement procedures from relevant training institutions, such as Lagos Business School,
Ghana Institute for Management and Public Administration, Eastern and Southern African
Management Institute, etc. Inter-State staff exchanges among the 12 Fadama II states and the 24
Fadama III states will be encouraged. The States Procurement Officers capacity is being
strengthened and supported by a well experienced National Procurement Specialist, who has
been recruited by NFCO to oversee and provide quality assurance of the procurement operations
of the Project as well as to coordinate the activities of the federal and states' procurement
officers.

99.     NFCO and SFCOs, as Project executing agencies, have responsibility for coordinating
procurement under the Project. The responsibilities at the local level have been delegated in part
to the various Community Associations and EIGs for implementation of community-based
infrastructure and asset acquisition activities. Guidelines to be used in preparing, screening, and
implementing sub-projects are specified in the PIM. A PIM addendum on SLM activities
supported by GEF will be made available. In cases where Community Associations and EIGs do
not have the required capacity, a facilitator will be contracted to assist the Community
Associations to prepare and implement sub-projects, including procurement activities. SFCOs
will provide the key officials of Community Associations and EIGs with appropriate training to
strengthen their procurement capacities. NFCO and SFCOs' procurement specialists will assist
in overseeing/monitoring the procurement activities under the Project, and, especially, those of
the Community Associations and EIGs for the first two years of the Project. As part of capacity
building under the Project, the NFCO Procurement Specialist, in close consultation with the
Bank, will conduct procurement training for the relevant staff of NFCO, SFCOs, Community
Associations and EIGs.

100.   Part of the Grant will be disbursed to the beneficiary communities based on the project's
decentralized approach. This implies that Community Associations and EIGs will be fully
responsible for management of their sub-projects. Therefore, SFCOs with the assistance of the
NFCO Procurement Specialist will organize appropriate training on CDD contracting and
monitoring before funds are released to approve sub-projects. Also each SFCO will ensure that
procurement activities are fully integrated into the project communication strategy to enhance
accountability. Details of the system to be put in place to mitigate the risks on misuse of funds
are described in Annex 8.

C.     Social

101.    This GEF incremental grant is fully integrated with Fadama III and would boost and
foster the positive social impacts. During the preparation of the SLM project, the RPF was
reviewed, updated and re-disclosed countrywide in Nigeria and at the World Bank InfoShop. The
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) outlines the policies and procedures to be followed in the
event that sub-projects require land acquisition. In addition, the RPF contains details of the
principles and objectives governing resettlement action plan preparation, review and approval of
RAPs, screening for Involuntary Resettlement, establishment of baseline and socioeconomic
data, preparation of resettlement action plans, and the likely categories of project affected
persons. In addition, the RPF also contains methods of identifying of project affected persons,
including criteria and eligibility for compensation of various categories of Project-Affected
Persons (PAPs), methods to determine the cut-off dates, institutional framework and methods of

                                                24
valuing affected assets in lieu of compensation and procedures for delivery of compensation.
Compensation arrangements for those being involuntarily resettled, including possibilities for
land exchange is outlined in the RPF. In particular, the RPF also contains mechanism for
resolving disputes that may arise.

102.    Grievance redress mechanism: The grievance redress procedure provides a mechanism
to mediate conflict and cut down on lengthy litigation, which often causes delay in infrastructure
projects. It will also provide people who might have objections or concerns about their assistance
a public forum to raise their objections and, through conflict resolution, ensure issues are
adequately addressed. The grievance procedure adopted for the SLM project will be simple,
administered as far as possible at the local and State levels to facilitate access, flexible and open
to various proofs, taking into cognizance the fact that most people are illiterate, and will entail a
speedy, just and fair resolution of their grievances.

D.     Environment

103.    In line, with the partly-blended baseline project, the following six safeguards policies
were triggered by this Project: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Natural Habitats
(OP/BP 4.04), Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09), Forestry (OP/GP 4.36), Projects on International
Waterways (OP/BP 7.50) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The Project will abide
with the covenants of the three policies of Forests, Natural Habitats and International
Waterways. With regards to the triggered International Waterways Policy, a formal riparian
notification has been made to the Niger Basin Authority and the Lake Chad Basin Commission
(LCBC). The Bank received the non-objection (dated March 14, 2008) from the Niger Basin
Authority (NBA) on the triggered international water policy.              However, during project
preparation, the exact locations and potential impacts were not known in sufficient detail.
Therefore, in December, 2009, the FGN prepared and disclosed the Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) and Resettlement RPF. The RPF addresses possible
involuntary physical and economic displacement of the program's sub-project. The ESMF
outlines the process and procedure to be followed when a project has the potential to trigger any
of the World Bank safeguard policies. The ESMF contains details of the existing environmental
laws and regulatory framework in the country; World Bank safeguard policies, analysis of
environmental and social impacts including alternatives; institutional arrangements for
implementing the ESMF, capacity building needs; and public consultation carried out during
project preparation. In addition, the ESMF contains a detailed checklist for screening all sub-
projects for their potential Environmental and Social impacts to determine: (i) Environmental
Assessment (EA) category; (ii) applicable World Bank environmental and social safeguards
policy triggers; (iii) potential for environmental and social impacts liability; (iv) cultural or other
sensitivities; (v) relevant stakeholders; and (vi) the nature and extent of engagement for each
stakeholder category. Finally, the ESMF contains an annex on a generic ToR for conducting an
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) if and when required.

104.    The overall environmental and social impacts of the project would be positive. However,
since it is integrated with Fadama III, The Project has been classified as a B Category, meaning
that the significant potential adverse environmental and social impacts are minor, site specific,
non cumulative and easily remediable and site-specific. The potential environmental impacts
may occur on new community infrastructure development, small-scale irrigation, ground water
extraction and horticultural and livestock production. In addition, Fadama III has potential for
intensive agriculture and could result in increased use of pesticides and herbicides, thereby
triggering the Bank's Pest Management Policy. Furthermore, while no large scale land

                                                  25
acquisition is envisaged, nevertheless, project activities may lead to loss of land or prevention of
access to usual means of livelihood. Thus, the Involuntary Resettlement Policy is also triggered
by the SLM project.

105.    While most SLM activities are not expected to generate any significant adverse
environmental or social impact, some SLM investments may result in mainly site-specific and
small-scale consequences, if no appropriate mitigation measures are incorporated in the design of
community-driven investments (e.g. water harvesting structures, gully stabilization, etc.). Similar
to SLM investments under the matching grant mechanism of the baseline project, SLM
investments under the Community SLM Award will be screened for environmental and social
impact. A checklist has been developed for the ESMF, which addresses social and environmental
screening and management aspects related to the Community SLM Award. Under Fadama III,
the following safeguards instruments were prepared: ESIA; Pest Management Plan (PMP); and
RPF. As part of the ESIA, an ESMF was developed with a screening checklist to screen sub-
project activities in order to identify those sub-projects that will need to undergo a partial or full
environmental and social assessment. The three safeguards instruments of ESMF, RPF, and PMP
have been prepared by the client reviewed and cleared by the Bank. These three instruments
were originally disclosed in-country and at the Infoshop on May 4, 2007. In addition, during the
preparation of the SLM project, the ESMF and PMP were reviewed, updated and re-disclosed
countrywide in Nigeria and at World Bank InfoShop in December 2009 for the purposes of the
GEF incremental grant.

E.        Safeguard policies

106.    In tandem with the baseline Fadama III project, the following six World Bank safeguard
policies were triggered by this GEF incremental Project: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP
4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09), Involuntary Resettlement
(OP/BP 4.12), Forests (OP/GP 4.36), and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50).
With regards to the triggered International Waterways Policy, as indicated in the Fadama III
PAD, by a letter dated June 22, 2007, LCBC acknowledged its receipt of the notification made
by the FGN. It further advised the FGN that a final response would be given after LCBC will
have completed its consultations with its member countries. However, despite several follow up
reminders from the FGN, LCBC has not followed through with its final response. Furthermore,
more than one year has passed since LCBC was duly notified of the proposed Project by the
FGN. Due to this lack of a formal no-objection response from LCBC, further processing of the
Project has been authorized by the RVP as required under OP/BP 7.50.

    Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                        Yes                   No
    Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                              [x]                   []
    Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                      [x ]                  []
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                          [x ]                  []
    Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                           []                    [x]
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                              [x]                   []
    Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                                    []                    [x]
    Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                               [x ]                  []
    Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                        []                    [x]
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)*                                           []                    [x]
    Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                   [x ]                  []

*
  By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas.
                                                                26
F.     Policy exceptions and readiness

107.  There are no policy exceptions and the GEF incremental Project is ready for
implementation.

108.    Fadama III is already effective and disbursing, having met the given non-standard
effectiveness conditions and three disbursement conditions as follows:

       (i) At least one Subsidiary Agreement has already been executed on behalf of the
            Recipient and one Participating State (Effectiveness condition).
       (ii) The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and
            one Participating State and is legally binding upon the Recipient and that
            Participating State in accordance with its terms (Effectiveness condition).
       (iii)There will be no withdrawal prior to the date of the financing agreement and no
            retroactive Financing (Disbursement condition).
       (iv) Disbursement for Grants for any Participating State unless the Recipient has
            furnished to the Association evidence satisfactory to the Association that the
            concerned Participating State has duly established its FCA in form and substance
            satisfactory to the Association (Disbursement condition).
       (v) An FCA must be legally constituted as civic and non-political association, recognized
            by both state and local government law (Disbursement condition).




                                               27
                         Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background
     NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                   KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

1.     This annex summarizes the background to the operation Nigeria: Scaling up SLM
Practice, Knowledge and Coordination. The annex is organized as follows:

     A.    The importance of land productivity
     B.    Barriers to greater adoption of SLM practices
     C.    Government strategy and higher level objectives to which the project contributes
     D.    Indicative list of SLM practices appropriate for Nigeria's community-driven rural
          development.

     Appendix 1: Summary of Nigeria's land degradation situation
     Appendix 2: Costs and benefits of land management options in Nigeria

A. The importance of land productivity
2.      With approximately two-thirds of Nigerians engaged in agricultural production, the
services provided by Nigeria's renewable natural resource base constitute the rural poor's only
safety net, while also serving as the foundation of the country's non-oil economic growth and
food security. As such, durable agricultural development depends on land management practices
that conserve soil and water, improve soil fertility and the biological potential for productivity,
and allow communities to adapt to on-going climate change and variability.16 Not only do such
practices help deliver important local benefits, they also help secure global environmental
benefits such as carbon accumulation in biomass and soil, improved nitrogen cycling, higher
water tables, in-situ biodiversity, and general ecosystem function.


3.      Land is the key asset of the rural poor. How productive land is managed therefore
has implications for poverty alleviation and economic growth. Unsustainable land-use
practices in Nigeria's floodplains, forest margins, and other areas prone to land degradation ­
amplified by on-going climate change and variability ­ pose threats to maintaining the
productivity of croplands, rangelands, and woodlands, as well as the functionality of the larger
ecosystems of which they are a part. Deforestation, large scale land clearing and floodplain17
encroachment, mainly for agricultural production, have resulted in severe gulley erosion in the
south, desert encroachment in the north, loss of valuable top soil, siltation of water bodies and
flooding, as well as carbon emissions and a foreclosing of adaptive strategies against more
variable weather. These and other manifestations of land degradation are directly impacting the
sustainability of key systems and livelihoods. See table 1 for a summary by zone.


16
   In a study published by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences, an international team of scientists confirmed the rule of thumb
emerging among crop ecologists that for each 1 degree Celsius rise in temperature above the norm during the growing season,
farmers can expect a 10% decline in wheat, rice, and corn yield (S Peng et al., Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
6 July 2004, pp. 9,971­75).
17
   "Fadama" is a Hausa name for irrigable land -- usually low-lying plains underlay by shallow aquifers found along Nigeria's
major river systems. They play an important role in the recharge of the shallow groundwater system through infiltration. Fadama
lands have historically supported highly productive natural vegetation consisting of dense acacia scrubland, open grassland and
seasonally or permanently flooded open bodies of water supporting dense emergent vegetation including rushes, sedges and
reeds. Furthermore, in addition to providing a source of water and forage for pastoral livestock during dry seasons, fadama lands
also support large and diverse resident or transient wildlife including herbivores, carnivores and migratory birds, many of which
are of global significance.
                                                              28
     Table 1: Distribution of Land Degradation Problems in Nigeria

 Ultra Humid          Extensive flooding problems and local problems of coastal erosion.
 Zone
 Very Humid           Moderate to severe sheet erosion throughout the zone, associated particularly with Lixisols and
 Zone                 coastal sand Acrisols; local gully erosion is severe, particularly in Anambra and Imo states on
                      the Luvisols of the Enugu escarpment, and Xanthic ferralsols around Owerri and Benin;
                      destruction of rainforest has been extensive.
 Humid Zone           Moderate to severe sheet erosion extends in as far as the Benue River, mainly associated with
                      Lixisols over sandstone and shale; local areas of moderate gully erosion (e.g. Katsina Ala
                      valley; Ankpa and Owukpa gullies); flooding is problematic in the major river valleys.
 Sub-humid            Tracts of severe sheet erosion in Bauchi State on the Lixisols over sandstone; areas of moderate
 Zone                 gully erosion (e.g. Bida gully in Niger State); soil capping and compaction is a problem in
                      Kaduna State on ferric Luvisols; woodland degradation is locally serious and extensive areas
                      are overgrazed.
 Plateau Zone         Extensive moderate gully erosion on the Jos Plateau and severe sheet erosion in the surrounding
                      area on Luvisols; the Plateau is nearly treeless; grazing resources are degraded.
 Montane Zone         Local gully erosion is moderate (e.g. on the ferrisols of the Mambila Plateau), severe sheet
                      erosion of cultivated areas.
 Dry sub-humid        Northern part of the zone subject to moderate to severe wind erosion of the Aeolian sand; the
 Zone                 whole zone suffers slight sheet erosion; alluvial river valleys and Fadamas are liable to flooding
                      and the latter become acidic under cultivation; local problems of salinity; degradation of woody
                      vegetation and overgrazing are extensive.
     FAO 1991


4.      An estimated 5 percent drag on agricultural GDP from on-farm soil erosion alone is
being felt in the country, although land degradation trends resist easy quantification at the
national level (Country Environmental Assessment, World Bank 2006). Off-site costs would add to
                                                                  18
the overall figure. The 1990 Global Assessment of Soil Degradation estimated that 27 percent of
Nigeria's land had degraded sufficiently to affect productivity.


5.      Land degradation has significantly affected Nigeria's crop and livestock productivity.
Soil erosion is the major form of land degradation in Nigeria (Stamp 1938; Mbagwu, et al.,
1984). It reduces agricultural productivity and leads to on-farm and off-site sediments and other
negative impacts (Junge, et al., 2008). For example, Mbagwu et al (1984) observed that soil
erosion causes a yield reduction of about 30% to 90% in some areas of southern Nigeria. Sheet
erosion is the major form of soil erosion in the country (Junge, et al., 2008). About 90% of the
total land area is claimed to be under some form of soil erosion (Thiombiano and Tourino-Soto,
2007). Soil erosion is severe in the northern states where overgrazing, strong winds and poor
vegetation cover lead to both water and wind erosion. The southern states also experience severe
soil erosion due to the high rainfall and continuing deforestation.


6.      Soil nutrient depletion in particular is a serious problem in Nigeria. This is most
pronounced in areas where use of fertilizer and other soil fertility management practices are
limited. Use of fertilizer in Nigeria is generally higher than the case in other Sub-Saharan
countries. Nigeria accounted for 14.2 percent of the 1.3 million tons used in Sub-Saharan Africa

18
   The Global Assessment of Human Induced Soil Degradation (GLASOD) was conducted by the International Soil Reference
and Information Centre (ISRIC) at Wageningen University, Netherlands, commissioned by UNEP. Soil scientists were asked to
categorize soils degraded over the past 45 years due to human intervention. GLASOD is one of the most widely cited analyses on
land degradation available.
                                                             29
from 1989 to 2002 (Morris, et al., 2007) and about 34 percent of farmers use fertilizer in the
country (NBS, 2006). Yet, soil nutrient depletion remains a major problem in the country since
the fertilizer quantities that farmers use do not meet the soil nutrient uptake by crops. It is
estimated that about 57 kg of the macronutrients (nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium) are lost
each year from one hectare (Henao and Baanante 2006). Over half of farmers in the dry
Savannah and a third of farmers in the moist Savannah used fertilizer. The Humid forest, with
reliable rainfall and high organic matter reported the lowest share of farmers using fertilizer
(11%). Part of the reason for the low use of fertilizer in the humid forest zone is the extensive
production of root and tuber crops, which are well-adapted to low soil fertility conditions.


7.      Use of organic soil fertility management practices is low even though such practices
are relatively cheap and have been shown to significantly increase soil fertility and yield
(Junge, et al., 2008). Adoption of agroforestry
practices is lowest in the dry Savannah, an area  Box 1. Examples of prominent sustainable 
that needs to be emphasized given the low         agricultural land management practices 
vegetation. The low adoption of agroforestry       
                                                  Soil and water management 
practices could be due to the difficulty of             · Terraces and other physical and biological 
planting trees in the dry areas, where survival            structures to prevent soil erosion 
of seedlings and germination rates are low.             · Contour planting 
Unfortunately, development of agroforestry              · Hedgerows and living barriers 
                                                        · Low tillage  
technologies and their promotion in the arid and        · Mulches and cover crops including biological 
semi-arid areas has been limited ­ compared to             nitrogen fixing legumes 
the more humid areas (Ryan and Spencer,                 · Water harvesting practices 
2001; Ajayi, et al., 2005).                       Soil fertility management 
                                                             · Manures and composts 
                                                             · Biomass transfer and green manures 
                                                             · Agroforestry 
8.      Improving smallholder yield is also                  · Integrated soil fertility management 
critical for slowing Nigeria's rapid land                Crop establishment 
                                                             · Planting pits 
conversions. While forest and woodland                       · Intercropping 
conversions have driven much of Nigeria's                    · Alley cropping 
agricultural growth, the country now has the             Controlling weeds and pests 
world's highest deforestation rate of primary                · Intercropping and rotation (diversity) 
                                                             · Integrated pest management 
forests. From 2000 to 2005 the country lost 56                                       Source: Tripp, 2006 
percent of its primary forests (FAO 2005).
Nigeria also has Africa's highest rate of total
forest loss -- 2.8 percent compared to a Sub-Saharan average of 0.8 percent. The forest cover is
now less than a third of what it was in the 1960s (World Bank 2005). From 1990-1995, cropping
expanded at an annual rate of 1.5 percent of the country's total land area, with roughly 70
percent of this expansion at the expense of relatively carbon-rich areas such as woodlands and
forest (World Bank 2005). The so-called forest reserves extend over 9.6 million hectares but
have to a large degree been so degraded as to remain reserves in name only, extensively deprived
of tree cover and, in some areas, well advanced towards desertification. Much of the remaining
forest is secondary forest, either re-growth on abandoned farm land or planted tree crops such as
cocoa or rubber (World Bank 2009). The agriculture sector, therefore, has a prominent role to
play in reducing on-going ad-hoc conversion of forest land to other uses by improving
productivity on existing crop and range systems.




                                                   30
9.      The Government recognizes that land productivity is a key to achieving poverty
alleviation, food security, ecological and climate stability, and the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs), and that further effort is urgently needed. Nigeria's 7 Point Agenda
specifically includes land degradation,19 and the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) notes that
from mid-70s to mid-90s there was a nine-fold increase in degraded lands. It emphasizes that
Nigeria's agricultural growth has resulted in expansion of area cropped and recommends that the
sector must shift to intensification. To do that sustainably, improved land management practices
need to be scaled up as part of an integrated approach to smallholder development (see box 1).


10.      Many SLM practices have positive cost-benefit ratios in agro-ecologies throughout
Sub-Saharan Africa (see appendix), yet adoption in Nigeria remains hindered by low
awareness, lack of access to advisory services and credit, and insecure land tenure. Nigeria
does have some best-bet practices; for example, alley cropping using the trees Gliricidia and
Leucaena reduced soil erosion by 73 percent and 83 percent respectively, while providing
additional fodder, fuel, and nitrogen fixation. Erosion is also managed in Nigeria using other
mechanical methods or structures which serve as barriers using stones or vegetation installed
along contour lines (Morgan 1995). As they operate as filters, they encourage sedimentation,
increase infiltration, and facilitate the formation of natural terraces (Lal, 1990). The perennial
Vetiver grass has served this purpose in many places in northern Nigeria (Malgwi, 1995) and is
recommended as an appropriate soil conservation technology for semi-arid zones as it also
withstands climate and land degradation risks such as denudation, fire, drought, and flood. These
and other SLM practices can deliver improved yield while sequestering carbon in soil and
biomass (see table 2). In western Nigeria, no-tillage combined with mulch application had a dramatic
effect, increasing soil carbon from 15 to 32.3 tonnes per hectare in 4 years (Ringius, 2002). Not only is
carbon sequestration critical for long-term climate stability, changes in carbon present in soil and
biomass are considered proxy indicators for overall ecosystem function and land quality  and
therefore the services ecosystems deliver such as water filtering, biodiversity, soil formation and
fertility, and so on.




19
     For more on the government's strategy and objectives, see section 3 below.
                                                                31
11. Table 2. Impact of sustainable agricultural land management practices on food production and
carbon sequestration in soils and above-ground biomass*
 FAO farm system category                   Average increase in         Carbon sequestered (ton C/ha/year)
                                            crop yield (%)
 Smallholder rainfed humid                  102.2 (±9.0)                0.46 (±0.034)
 Smallholder rainfed highland               107.3 (±14.7)               0.36 (±0.022)
 Smallholder rainfed dry                    99.2 (±12.5)                0.26 (±0.035)
 Dualistic mixed                            76.5 (±12.6)                0.32 (±0.023)
 Smallholder irrigated                      129.8 (±21.5)               0.15 (±0.012)
 Wetland rice                               22.3 (±2.8)                 0.34 (±0.035)
 All projects                               79.2 (±4.5)                 0.35 (±0.016)

Pretty et al. (2003, 2006).
*Standard errors in parenthesis


The response

12.     Nigeria's flagship rural development operation, Fadama III, will contribute to
safeguarding the ecosystem services provided by intact production systems such as
floodplain cropping, grazing reserves, and other community defined areas, generating
intertwined local and global benefits. Over 2.2 million households20 are targeted nationwide
by the baseline Fadama III project. The GEF incremental grant under TerrAfrica's Bank-led
Strategic Investment Program will strengthen this dimension. Environmental benefits are
assumed to accrue from the uptake of locally selected SLM practices, each of which deliver a
range of environmental and economic benefits centered on maintenance of vegetation cover and
soil quality. These benefits vary depending on type of technology employed, the relative
attractiveness of the SLM practices to participating communities, the local land degradation and
climate risks faced by the communities, and the agro-ecological zone. Global environmental
benefits to be delivered by the operation center on key primary ecosystem services from well-
functioning production landscapes such as soil formation, carbon retention in soil and biomass,
above and below ground biodiversity from improved crop and range management as well as
avoided deforestation, improved ability of communities to adapt to climate change, and lastly,
improved infiltration and freshwater availability in some transboundary situations. Local
benefits to be delivered by the operation center on secondary ecosystem services that result from
the primary ecosystem services and include food, fuel, fiber, fodder, and freshwater.

B.        Barriers to greater adoption of sustainable land management practices
13.      The barriers to improved land and water management are centered on fragmented
institutions and knowledge. A major obstacle in Nigeria is the lack of detailed knowledge about
land degradation, soil productivity losses, depletion of grazing reserves, and deforestation rates.
As a result, only limited progress has been achieved in developing and disseminating sustainable
agricultural production technologies. Resource-conserving technologies such as use of crop
rotations, agro-forestry practices, and integrated crop-livestock systems have had low rates of
adoption, either because the technologies have been lacking, because farmer awareness has been
low, or because incentives to adopt have been weak (World Bank 2009). (1) Fragmented
institutional coordination, capacities, mandates, and policy have together resulted in frequent
policy shifts and disincentives such as poor land access and overlapping or unclear ownership.
These weaknesses are found at all levels, local to federal. For example, lack of farmer access to

20
   The Project will reach approximately 2.2 million beneficiary households, both direct and indirect. In addition, it is expected
that the Project could also affect an additional 2 million households, as members of communities not benefiting directly from
sub-projects, and non-fadama communities will gain from the investments in public infrastructure and from additional income
and employment effects.
                                                              32
the admittedly under-capacitated advisory services also hinders uptake. One effect of this
fragmentation is that the capacity to implement SLM has been compromised, resulting in. among
other things, relatively weak leadership from the Nigerian government on articulating its rural
land management investment priorities across sectors. (2) Knowledge gaps and fragmentation are
commonplace, sustaining the institutional underperformance and hindering methodical uptake of
SLM. For example, no classification of land use capabilities exists, research and extension is
isolated from investment and policy decision making, M&E is poor, and the evidence base of
land degradation and climate risks is outdated or often anecdotal. Despite this, there is evidence
of good SLM practices that can be scaled up in service of multiple sectors and themes prioritized
by the country. These two barriers are discussed in turn below.


B.1.   Fragmented institutional coordination, capacities, mandates, and policy
14.    Policy inconsistency and administrative changes in government. Inconsistencies owing
to frequent change of government are one constraint to most programs and projects related to
land use and management. This constraint manifests itself in lack of continuity and shifts in
approaches by successive governments at various levels. Many policies were formed and
scrapped within a short time period as a result of change of government. This leads to abandoned
programs, projects, and policies.

15.     Insecure land tenure can be a barrier to investment in land quality. The overlap
between government and traditional authorities' land ownership could form a disincentive to
investment in land quality in some areas but the data is inconclusive. The Federal Office of
Statistics in 1999 identified land tenure as a key determinant in yields and on-farm land
degradation; research in 2006 challenges this perspective but has a minority audience in the
country.

16.    In most agencies a past reliance on top-down, compartmentalized approaches has
hindered participation of rural people in government programs. Lack of participation of rural
people reduces policy effectiveness. Although this is changing with the recent uptick in the
frequency with which communities are driving investment operations in the past decade in
Nigeria, attitudes among communities and in government continue to evolve in favor of greater
community voice in natural resource management and economic empowerment.

17.      Lack of a coherent framework for coordination on policy and practice related to land
use and management. Although there is some reason for optimism, the institutional arrangement
for land and water management is inadequate, a phenomenon responsible for duplication of
efforts by sectors as well as partners active in agriculture and natural resource management. This
leads to inefficiency in resource utilization among ministries and organizations. Inter-
institutional coordination and cooperation is minimal or non-existent, both vertically and
horizontally. Similarly, inadequate monitoring and evaluation accounts for a mismatch existing
between most SLM policies or programs and their goals. Land degradation and climate risks are
seldom included appropriately in decision-making. Several ministries in Nigeria have taken a
leadership role on land matters but move in somewhat different directions because of conflicting
institutional jurisdictions on use of land resources. Another implication is the emergence of
duplicating roles on the same issues by different ministries or parastatals, such as conflicting
mandates of local and state institutions.

18.   Poor implementation of policies and weak enforcement of SLM related legislation.
Bureaucratic bottlenecks negatively affected SLM related projects in Nigeria by shifting their

                                               33
focus away from the fundamental objectives of the project. Sound policies are usually supported
with legislation, but most of them lack enforcement, possibly due to, among other reasons lack of
funds and lack of technically trained personnel. The number of committed, capacitated staff in
the federal, state and local government's ministries, agencies and parastatals related to
environment is inadequate to address the scale of land degradation and climate risks, or the
complexities inherent in multi-sector solutions that are necessary to protect land productivity and
soil and water resources. For a variety of reasons, the activities of forestry and range land
management staff are likely no longer as effective as in the 1960s and 1970s. Since then, for
example, almost all state forestry departments abandoned any form of management of natural
forests. Major barriers to up-scaling sustainable forest management include shortage of funds,
inadequate public sensitization, limited stakeholder participation and ill-equipped forest guards.
The agriculture sector, therefore, has a prominent role to play in reducing on-going ad-hoc
conversion of forest land to other uses by improving productivity on existing crop and range
systems.

19.     Lack of coordination among partners working on land use and management issues
including climate risk. Land management implementation, investment planning, and policy
development are fragmented, falling across a range of federal and state agencies and involving
countless stakeholders. Investment dialogues are fragmented, leading to projects working at
times at cross purposes and bearing opportunity costs of synergies foregone. There is little
coordination with universities, research institutes, or NGOs. Many researchers and academia are
unaware of policy changes on agriculture or environment except when engaged directly with
such ministries, which hinders implementation. Domestic policy dialogues and policy documents
are insufficiently accessible to most citizens, which limits policy relevance and implementation.
There is a need to expand the public sphere around policy and investment affecting rural areas.


20.     Inappropriate economic policies including pricing. Although the policy thrust of
NEEDS with regard to the environment is to ensure a safe and healthful environment that secures
the economic and social well being of Nigerians on sustainable basis, not enough priority was
given to the environment and science and technology when compared to other sectors. Empirical
evidence shows an inextricable linkage between poverty and environmental degradation in
Nigeria. The past antipoverty initiatives had some weaknesses including: (i) Ad-hoc and
uncoordinated response to poverty; (ii) Absence of comprehensive policy framework; (iii)
Excessive political interference; (iv) Ineffective targeting of the poor; (v) The unwieldy scope of
programmes causing a thinly spread of resources across too many projects; (vi) Overlapping
functions leading to institutional rivalry and conflict; (vii) Absence of sustainable mechanisms in
programmes and projects; (viii) And lack of involvement of beneficiaries in projects design,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation (FME, 2002; NPC, 2005; Ivbijaro et al, 2006). Issues
related to land policy/reform and pricing policies and management of natural resources require
greater financial commitment than is presently the case.

21.     Lack of access to support services, farm inputs and credit. Most Nigerians live in rural
areas and many live a peasant life which is a catalyst to mismanagement of land resources. For
example the high energy prices in Nigeria, force many people to resort to the use of wood as a
major source of energy. Similarly, Nigeria is characterized with predomination of small-scale
farmers who depend heavily on rain-fed agriculture with inadequate supply of farm inputs;
inadequate mechanization; inadequate finance and inadequate infrastructure. These consequently
pose a threat to environment through desertification, uncontrolled grazing, bush burning, felling
trees for fuel wood and other attending crises. Most communities engage in activities that

                                                34
degrade the land resources partly due to lack of substitute or absence of subsidy for the
environment friendly operations.


B.2      Knowledge gaps and fragmentation
22.     Inadequate access to information and knowledge by smallholders. Among farmers and
extension services, there is a lack of sufficient information on SLM practices, including both
agronomic techniques and land use approaches. Most rural farmers tend to adhere to traditional
land use practices passed down through generations. Such practices may have been sustainable in
a different era but with competing demands on the land resource, some practices exceed carrying
capacity. Lack of access to good information, quality extension advice, weather forecasts, and
farmer-to-farmer exchanges hinder land care and adaptive responses to climate change.
Similarly, many communities are unaware of who is directly responsible for enacting laws that
govern the use of any natural resource.

23.    Knowledge is isolated and can be put into better use. Many research institutes and
development partners have carried out several studies on SLM. However, this knowledge has
remained on shelves and many of the potential beneficiaries are unaware.

24.      Key knowledge gaps need to be filled. Lack of comprehensive data on the state of land
resources and climate risks in Nigeria. Nigerian investments do not yet enjoy a comprehensive
study on the causes and effects of different forms of land degradation. Most of the existing
information is based on the expert-survey based 1990 GLASOD study, along with various case
studies that remain isolated or limited in scope. A new generation of research coupled with a new
generation of cost-effective remote sensing technologies can better quantify the extent and
impacts of land degradation. The World Bank is now sponsoring research that is being carried
out by IFPRI on the costs of land degradation and the benefits of SLM. Such renewed interest in
the international community for agriculture, land management and climate change issues points
to an eventual dismantling of this barrier, but dissemination will still be key. Within Nigerian
institutions, sometimes the ability to conduct research is hindered by lack of financial or
technical capacities and modern scientific equipment and laboratories.


B. Government strategy and higher level objectives to which the Project contributes
25.     To better address the barriers outlined above, the Federal Government recently
formed the National SLM Technical Committee to improve investment programming
across the many sectors and themes related to land management.21 The committee, active at
technical and ministerial levels and currently chaired by FMARD, is actively building an
integrated program-based approach to investment in climate-resilient land and water
management by improving vertical and horizontal coordination of institutions and sectors
involved in investment planning, analytics, and policy. Seeking to avoid duplications in rural
investment, the Committee is bringing stakeholders together to develop an SLM Investment
Framework to prioritize investments needed to bring SLM to scale to reduce risks from poor land
management and climate variability. The SLM Investment Framework is being developed in the
context of CAADP and the TerrAfrica partnership, with technical assistance from the World
Bank under both TerrAfrica and the baseline Fadama III project.


21
  Includes Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Committee Chair, and includes CAADP focal point),
Federal Ministry of Environment, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the National Planning Commission, and NEPAD Nigeria.
                                                         35
26.     The National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS)
explicitly recognizes the strategic importance of the agricultural sector and lists a number of
special initiatives and targets that the federal government intends to pursue to promote increased
productivity.

27.     In addition to the strategic objectives outlined in the NEEDS, the Government has
recently unveiled its seven-point agenda for economic development. The President's 7 Point
Agenda prioritizes agricultural productivity while recognizing Nigeria's underperformance in
raising productivity. The Program notes that to improve sector performance, action is needed to
improve soil fertility, land tenure, predictability and efficiency of public sector funding,
extension, environmental sustainability, and to resuscitate Nigeria's fight against land
degradation. These findings and priorities are matched by an emerging body of analytics and
research, although key gaps persist in quantifying land degradation pressures, states, and even
responses, as well as a clear understanding of climate change on the productivity and
sustainability of rural land use systems. The 7 point agenda accords with Nigeria's National

Action Programme to Combat Desertification.

28.     To help address these priorities and advance community-led rural development, the
Government decided to formulate the baseline investment operation, Fadama III. The Fadama
series has evolved over the years into a large-scale and deeply owned national rural development
program quite different from the predecessor operations, which focused on floodplain agriculture
in a limited number of States. The new program is vast, with a proven and robust implementation
mechanism that enjoys nationwide reach and credibility ­ representing an important opportunity
for mainstreaming SLM.

29.     Bank Assistance Strategy. Both the baseline Fadama III project and this incremental
GEF Project are in line with the Nigeria Country Partnership Strategy (Report No. 32412-NG),
which is designed to support the implementation of Nigeria's economic growth and poverty
alleviation strategy as outlined in the NEEDS.

30.     Both the baseline Fadama III project and this incremental GEF Project support the
government's strategic objective to enhance non-oil growth in order to achieve increased food
security, reduce poverty, improve environmental sustainability, and create employment and
improved opportunities in rural areas. Fadama III does so by: (i) financing community defined
investments in productive community infrastructure to raise land and agricultural productivity
and diversify sources of livelihood; (ii) building the capacity of community organizations to
increase the stock of social capital; (iii) strengthening the capabilities of participating states and
local governments to deliver services to the rural poor; and (iv) promoting socially-inclusive and
environmentally sustainable management of natural resources. With GEF incremental support,
the Project also contributes to achieving the goals of the New Agricultural Policy (NAP) and the
Rural Sector Strategy (RSS) as well as the AU/NEPAD Comprehensive African Agriculture
Development Program (CAADP) target of 6 percent agricultural growth, objectives of the
TerrAfrica Partnership and its main investment activity: the multi-agency GEF Strategic
Investment Program (SIP) for SLM in Sub-Saharan Africa, which is led by the Bank and
NEPAD and is providing this incremental grant to the baseline Fadama III Project.




                                                 36
C.     List of SLM practices appropriate for Nigeria's community-driven rural
development
31.      The objectives of including SLM practices among community driven investment options
are to (i) incorporate SLM into local development planning and land use and (ii) increase uptake
of SLM by local Economic Interest Groups or their larger apex Community Associations. In the
context of the operation, options for SLM investment include: (i) profitable SLM activities that
increase or maintain cropland and rangeland productivity and reduce incentives for land
conversions from forest to other uses, (ii) profitable entrepreneurial activities that can help
alleviate land degradation risk and land conversion pressure, or (iii) complementary land
management practices that are advocated through the Project's sensitization and training
activities yet not directly financed by the Project. In many cases, SLM practices offered or
promoted via the operation should help communities to build resilience to the effects of climate
variability and change. It should be recognized, however, that no blueprint technology can serve
all of Nigeria's different agro-ecological zones. Local customization is needed.

32.     Key criteria for inclusion of a given SLM practice in the menu of investment options
under the Project are that they are profitable preferably but not exclusively within 1-2 years,
scalable and appropriate to the different agro-ecological zones. Initial emphasis may lie on i)
entrepreneurial activities that may reduce degradation of land, water, and forest resources
through income diversification, as well as ii) agronomic and vegetative technologies that tend to
result more rapidly in improved soil structure, moisture, and fertility and thus increased
productivity. Examples for SLM technologies include: mixed cropping systems, grazing
reserves, compost making, mulching, erosion control measures, orchards, nursery establishment,
alley cropping with Leucaena or Gliricidia trees, etc.

33.     While GEF incremental funding would help to promote the menu of sub-project options
with a selection of viable SLM technologies, actual sub-project investments will be made via the
existing demand-driven matching grant mechanism under the baseline Fadama III project (GEF
support will be provided to some communities in the form of the Community SLM Award. See
Annex 4). Most GEF resources will support knowledge dissemination, sensitization, monitoring
and evaluation among stakeholders including an emphasis on participating communities and
Project Facilitators, and extension, but also including local government authorities and State and
Federal officials.

34.    A table of technologies promoted in the Project is presented in Annex 4 para 17. For
each technology, an indication is made for profitability and benefits related to climate adaptation,
operating and maintenance costs and payback, and environmental benefits. Below are detailed
summaries of major types of SLM practice that could be scaled up in Nigeria. Many o0f these
technologies are being or will be promoted by the Fadama III program.


Detailed summary of indicative best fit SLM practices for Nigeria

35.     Mulching. This practice involves the use of organic or sometimes synthetic materials to
cover the soil surface for a number of benefits which include reduced run-off, moisture retention,
reduced loss of soil, regulation of soil temperature, suppression of weeds, etc. In Nigeria
different types of material such as residues from the previous crop, brought-in mulch including
grass, perennial shrubs, farmyard manure, compost, byproducts of agro-based industries, or
inorganic materials and synthetic products can be used for mulching (Lal, 1990).


                                                37
36.     Composting. Compost is well-rotted vegetable matter which is prepared from farm refuse
(straw, crop stubble, weeds and crop residues, etc) and house waste (sewage, sludge, street and
dustbin, etc). Compost is prepared in trenches. It needs no skilled labor to make, and it uses
locally available materials, so the cost is minimal. Compost is a good source of organic manure
and its practice is wide spread among farmers in Nigeria.


37.     Liming. Many of the farmer's fields in Nigeria are acidic. This could be caused by the
nature of the parent material which influences the development of soil acidity (e.g. Quartz,
Feldspars, Granite, Gneisses, etc) or be caused by the type of climate such as the humid regions
which rapidly makes soils acid as a result of leaching away the bases or soils could be acid if
acidifying fertilizers are used such as those with ammonium. Liming is a strategy used to bring
acid soils back to production. There are a number of studies done in Nigeria in this respect.
Chude et al (2005) have produced a Handbook on soil acidity and use of agricultural lime in crop
production which can serve as a useful guide for Nigerian farmers.

38.     Cover cropping. Some types of crops especially members of the legume family which
usually grow fast and prostrate have been found to be very useful in improving the soil quality.
Examples include P. phaseoloides, M. pruriens, Centrosema pubescens, Stylosanthes guianensis,
and Phaseolus aconitifolius or the grasses Pennisetum purpureum, Brachiaria ruziziensis, and
Paspalum notatum (Lal 1995a). Their dense canopy prevents rain drops from detaching soil
particles and this keeps soil loss to tolerable limits, so cover crops play an important role in soil
conservation (Okigbo and Lal, 1977; Lal, 1978; Ahaneku 1985).

39.      Improved fallow. Fallowing is still a common practice in some parts of Nigeria although
the rapid population increase has led to the reduction in the years of fallow never the less where
it is practiced a lot of advantage can be derived when inter-sown with some beneficial crops. Juo
and Lal (1977) showed that fallows with Guinea grass (Panicum maximum) provide much
organic matter to the soil. Shrubs of woody plants such as pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan) are
advantageous in improving the physical soil conditions due to the penetration of their rootlets
into deeper soil layers Jaiyeoba (2003), Salako and Kirchhof (2003).

40.     Agro-forestry. Agro-forestry is a collective name for a land use system in which woody
perennials are integrated with crops and/or animals on the same land management unit (Junge et
al, 2008). The integration can be either in a spatial mixture or in a temporal sequence (Rudebjer
et al, 2001). Several studies have been conducted by researchers in various parts of Nigeria on
alley cropping with promising results. Trees or shrubs such as Leucaena leucocephala, Gliricidia
sepium, and Senna siamea are planted as contour hedges between strips of cropland generating a
reduction in soil erosion and other benefits. The reduction of soil erosion by alley cropping
obviously depends on the spacing between the hedges and the species. The 4-m spacing was
adequate for erosion control with L. leucocephala and 2-m spacing for G. sepium. The age of the
perennials is also important as most species become effective sediment traps about two to three
years after planting (Lal, 1990). Young (1989) attributed the potential of agroforestry as an
erosion control measure to its capacity to supply and maintain a good soil surface cover by the
tree canopy and the pruning material. Another potential is the effect of a runoff barrier when
trees are planted across the slope. As the intensive rooting by the woody perennials also improve
the structure and infiltration rate of the soil, the amount of runoff and hence soil loss are reduced.




                                                 38
41.     Some tree species such as Leucaena leucocephala have been proven in Nigeria to
generate multiple additional benefits in two years, including nitrogen fixing, fuel, fodder, and
construction material. The International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Ibadan has
for several years developed a method for planting giant Leucaena as an intercrop with corn,
yams, and rice. In the growing season the trees are kept cut and pruned so they do not shade
nearby crops. The resulting twigs and leaves are used as nitrogen-rich mulch, the larger branches
for poles or relatively clean-burning charcoal fuel. In dry season, the trees are allowed to re-grow
and draw nutrients from deep soil. The benefits build up over time. On an infertile, sandy soil on
an IITA research plot, this approach has given corn yields of more than 3-5 tons per hectare in
the second season, without added fertilizer. This is four times Africa's average corn yield.

42.     Gliricidia septum is a small leguminous tree currently used on farmers' fields in several
locations in Oyo State, western Nigeria, where it seems farmers value this introduced woody
legume in restoring soil fertility. Despite its widespread use, and farmers' acceptance, there is
hardly any study or account of this woody legume in Nigeria. During a field survey in the Ibadan
area, it was determined that leaf protein content was calculated to be 23.6 per cent and soils
under G. septum fallow had higher nutrient status than comparable sites under natural bush
fallow.

43.     Intercropping or strip cropping. Intercropping is the system of growing two or more
crop species simultaneously in the same field during a single crop growing season. For
sustainability often the companion crop in the mixture should be a legume because of its nitrogen
fixing ability. In the typical Nigerian farming systems the legume is shorter and spreading (e.g.
cowpea) while the other crop is taller (e.g. maize). The dense ground cover reduces erosion,
lowers evaporation and increases water infiltration. The crops should have different rooting
profiles to avoid competition for soil nutrients and moisture, and should mature at different
times. An improvement over the traditional system is the use of strip cropping. This is the
growing of two or more crops simultaneously in different strips wide enough to permit
independent cultivation but narrow enough for the crops to interact agronomically. This system
has advantages over the mixed intercropping common with the farmers.

44.      Contour ploughing. Plowing along the contour (across the slope, rather than up and
down) helps slow run off and prevent gullies from forming. Tillage, planting and other farm
operations are done along the contour thereby impeding the down slope flow of water, allowing
the water to infiltrate and avoiding erosion. Contour farming on slopes of 4 to 6 percent can
reduce water loss (runoff) by 50 percent soil loss by about 50 percent compared to up and down
hill cultivation (FAO, Water Conservation; Constantinesco, 1976).

45.     Terraces and contour bunds. Junge et al (2008) described contour bunds as made of earth
or stones or terraces that consist of an excavated channel and a bank or ridge on the downhill
side for cultivating crops which are permanent erosion control technologies (Morgan, 1995; Lal,
1995). The first are installed across slopes of low gradients, the latter at right angles to the
steepest slope in hilly areas. Research on contour banks was conducted by Couper (1995), who
considered these measures to be useful to prevent gully erosion, the most spectacular type of
erosion. He also prepared an implementation guide for farmers including the description of the
design and construction of graded contour banks. Field trials on terraces made by Lal (1995) in
Ibadan showed that the mean soil loss from a catchment without any erosion control measures
was 2.3 t ha-1 and from a terraced catchment, 0.7 t ha-1. Terraces were also built in Mokwa
(Palmer, 1958), in the Pankshin area on the Jos Plateau (Longtau et al., 2002), and at Maku near
Udi-Nsukka (Igbokwe, 1996). The records state that permanent structures of these kinds are
effective soil conservation technologies as excessive soil loss and silting up of the fields are
                                                39
reduced. However, high labor intensity, time-consuming regular inspections, high consumption
of scarce farmland, and the large amounts of construction material required are factors that stop
farmers from installing or maintaining terraces (Junge et al, 2008; Igbokwe, 1996).

46.     Other erosion control structures. Erosion can also be managed using other mechanical
methods or structures which serve as barriers using stones or vegetation installed along contour
lines (Morgan 1995). As they operate as filters, they may not reduce the runoff amount but retard
its velocity and hence encourage sedimentation, increase infiltration, and facilitate the formation
of natural terraces (Lal, 1990). The Vetiver (Vetiver zizanioides), a perennial grass with a deep,
fibrous root system has served this purpose in many places in northern Nigeria (Malgwi, 1995).
He recommends this grass as an appropriate soil conservation technology for semi-arid zones as
it also withstands climate and land degradation risks such as denudation, fire, drought, and flood.

47.     Ridging/Ridge tying. Ridge tillage is the practice of planting or seeding crops in rows on
the top, along both sides or in the furrows between the ridges, which are prepared at the
beginning of every cropping season. Tied ridging or furrow diking includes the construction of
additional cross-ties in the furrows between neighboring contour ridges (Lal, 1990). These
practices are common in Nigeria but the latter is most often seen in the semi-arid part of northern
Nigeria. The ridges (along the contour) encourage water to infiltrate. Rainwater is trapped in the
furrow between the ridges (i.e. the furrows are dammed with small `ties', forming small basins).
Tied ridges decrease the run-off and increase storage. In normal and dry years they may con-
tribute to yield increases up to 300 percent. However, during high rainfall years water may
stream above the `ties' and destroyed them. They are best applied in areas of 500 to 800 mm
annual rainfall on level or slightly inclined land on soils with low water infiltration rate, but can
be applied on any type of soil. To avoid the risk of damage the furrows should be on gentle grade
to assist run-off if the ties fail (FAO, Water Conservation).

48.      Minimum till. The increase in population and the changing attitude to agriculture has
resulted in increased intensification and mechanization of farming activities. Significant
problems can arise from soil tillage using heavy implements and animal traction which include
soil compaction, erosion and runoff. Thus, because of the negative consequences of frequent
tillage in many tropical soils, there is the new concept of reduced tillage i.e. minimum or zero
tillage, which has been highly successful in Brazil, the US, Zambia, and elsewhere. Minimum
tillage describes a practice where soil preparation is reduced to the minimum necessary for crop
production and where 15 percent to 25 percent of residues remain on the soil surface (Morgan,
1995). No-till or zero-tillage is characterized by the elimination of all mechanical seed bed
preparation except for the opening of a narrow strip or hole in the ground for seed placement.
The surface of the soil is covered by crop residue mulch or killed sod (Lal, 1983).

49.     Depending on local conditions, reduced tillage can increase soil moisture and organic
matter while generating increased yields. Its main objective is that, under continuous cultivation,
soil regeneration is faster than soil degradation so that intensification of agricultural production
is economically, ecologically and socially sustainable (FAO Land and Water Bulletin 8).
Investigations focusing on the influence of different tillage methodologies performed manually
or mechanically on soil properties and crop yields are numerous in Nigeria (Junge et al, 2008). In
particular, Lal carried out many field experiments in Ibadan and stated that soil surface
management is the key for solving problems associated with the transition from traditional
farming to more productive land use systems in the tropics (Lal 1982, 1983). He developed a
tillage guide based on factors, such as soil moisture regime and texture, to assess the
applicability of tillage and no-till practices for different tropical soils (Lal, 1982) and specified
tillage-based technological packages for sustainable soil management on small-scale and
                                                 40
medium-sized farms in the tropics (Lal, 1991). According to these studies, no-till and mulch
farming are sustainable management technologies for the humid and sub-humid tropics, whereas
rough plowing, tied ridging, and mulching are appropriate techniques for the semi-arid area
(Junge et al, 2008). However, in some instances the use of tillage is necessary, for example
Takken et al. (2001) recorded that the use of tillage implements was more effective than no-till
for each level of compaction. According to him, the germination and yield of cotton were higher
on compacted plots treated by disk harrowing or plowing than on plots without any tillage.
Aeration of clayey soils with poor drainage conditions or during wet periods is also improved by
ridging and especially supports the production of root and tuber crops (Kowal and Stockinger,
1973). Eziakor (1990) recommends ridge tillage also for shallow soils, where hardpan seriously
restricts root development and crop production.




                                              41
Appendix 1: Summary of Nigeria's land degradation situation

50.    The President's 7 Point Agenda reports that agriculture is the fastest growing sector in the
non-oil economy. In 2005, it contributed 6.8 percent out of the 8.2 percent growth rate recorded
by the entire non-oil sector. The Agenda, however, prioritizes agricultural productivity while
recognizing Nigeria's underperformance in raising productivity. The Program notes that action is
needed to improve soil fertility, land tenure, predictability and efficiency of public sector
funding, extension, environmental sustainability, and to resuscitate Nigeria's "greenbelt
programme" against land degradation. These findings and priorities are matched by an emerging
body of analytics and research, although key gaps persist in quantifying land degradation
pressures, states, and even responses, as well as a fuller understanding of climate change on the
productivity and sustainability of rural land use systems.

Appendix 1: Ta
ble 1 Appendix 1 : Table 1: Status of land degradation in Nigeria
Consequence      Pressures, States, Impacts

Loss of           Over 27 percent of land had suffered some form of degradation in Nigeria (GLASOD 1990).
productive        Crosson (1997) associates land productivity loss in Nigeria with different degradation levels. Areas lightly
potential of      degraded are assumed to have lost 5 per cent of their original productivity; areas with moderate degradation
land resources    lost 18 per cent; and areas strongly or extremely degraded are assumed to have lost 50 per cent of their
                  original productivity.
                  Improper agricultural practices are common in every part of the country. Soils are not adequately protected
                  by cover crops; crop rotation is hardly practiced (FME, 2006).
                  Population pressure, over grazing and the continuous exploitation of marginal lands have aggravated drought
                  and desertification. Entire villages and major access roads have been buried under sand dunes in the northern
                  portions of Katsina, Sokoto, Jigawa and Borno States (World Bank 2006).
                  Irrigated cropping has led to severe land degradation due to waterlogging, salinization or alkalinization from
                  a number of irrigation projects such as Bakolori, South Chad, and Hadejia-Jamaare; over a third of Nigeria's
                  irrigated land suffers from salinization (UNCCD NAP 1997)

Loss of forest    Nigeria has the world's highest deforestation rate of primary forests and Africa's highest rate of total forest
resources         loss. Between 2000 to 2005 the country lost 55.7% of its primary forests, an annual rate of 11.1% (FAO
                  2005). The forest cover is now less than a third of what it was in the 1960s (World Bank, 2005).
                  Deforestation is pronounced in the rainforest zone of eastern and western Nigeria. Annual deforestation rate
                  is estimated at 3.5%, which translates into more than 400,000 of lost hectares. This tends to open up the lands
                  for soil degrading catalysts such as water erosion and flooding with its attendant washing away of the fertile
                  top soils as well as leaching. The situation is more pronounced within the Guinea savannah area. In the case
                  of the savannah area of the middle belt, deforestation is combined with bush burning to open up the already
                  sterile soils for further degradation, thereby paving way for further reduction of fertility, agricultural
                  productivity and yield per area. (FME 2006).
                  There are numerous causes for this mass-scale deforestation: high population growth rates resulting in the
                  expansion of agriculture, high urban and rural demand for wood and fuelwood, commercial logging, weak
                  institutions and policy in most states (World Bank, 2005).
                  The value of net depletion in the timber wealth of the country due to deforestation in 2002 was between $106
                  and $964 million, equivalent to 1.15 per cent of GDP (World Bank, 2005).

Flooding and      Erosion poses the greatest threat to Nigerian soils and affects over 80% of the land. Wind, sheet, gully, mud
erosion           and beach erosion affect different parts of the country in varying intensities (Ogunlela 2006).
                  Annual 35 million square meters lost to gulley erosion (Mbagwu 2000). Particularly severe in Cross River,
                  Plateau, Adamawa and southeastern Nigeria.
                  While wind erosion is confined to the arid north, sheet erosion is ubiquitous throughout Nigeria (NNP 2006).
                  Areas most prone to sheet wash are areas where farming has cleared the original vegetation, generally turning
                  the area into scrubland.
                  Flooding in Nigeria has been due to natural and artificial factors. The unevenly distributed rainfall in term of
                  amount of duration, and the climatic variability resulted in abnormal runoff generation (NNP 2006).




                                                             42
Appendix 2. Costs and Benefits of Selected Land Management Options in Nigeria

The following is an extract from a draft report from on-going analytical work.

51.     This analysis is aimed at providing empirical evidence for advising on the type of SLM
technology investments in three States in Nigeria representing three diverse agro-ecological
zones (north, central, south). Since land degradation and investment and returns to SLM can be
long-term processes, time series data are required to effectively conduct benefit-costs analyses
(BCA) of SLM. Additionally, there are both on-farm and off-farm costs of land degradation and
benefits of SLM. Assessment of the off-farm costs and benefits is complicated and difficult to
measure (Berry, et al., 2003; Hein, 2006). Hence there has been a limited number of studies that
have assessed the on-farm and off-site costs and benefits of land degradation and SLM
investment. This analysis is carried out using fairly simple methods and approaches that can be
easily replicated in other studies. The approach compares profit of agricultural production with
and without SLM practices. Overall, preliminary results (Jan 2010) suggest that land
management practices that combine organic and inorganic fertilizers and crop residues are
more sustainable than those which use either one of them alone. The analysis is on-going.


52.     The tables below show that a combination of crop residues, soil organic matter (manure
and compost) and fertilizer has the largest yield and average net benefit for rice and maize. The
maize and rice yields for plots receiving 40kgN/ha, 1.67 tons/ha manure and 50 percent crop
residue, which produced more realistic yield estimate, was higher than treatment not integrating
all three land management practices. The results also show that a combination of all land
management practices has a benefit-cost ratio above the practices that use any practice alone.
Additionally, the average returns to labor day are more than N300, which is the rural daily wage
rate22 for all practices. This suggests that land management practices included in the simulation
are competitive in the rural labor market. This is consistent with other socio-economic studies
which have shown that land management practices that strategically integrate organic and
inorganic soil fertility management practices (Integrated soil fertility management, or ISFM)
(Vanlauwe and Giller, 2006; Tittonnell, 2008) are more profitable than practices using either
mineral fertilizer or organic soil fertility management practice alone (e.g. Doraiswamy, et al.,
2007; Sauer and Tchale, et al., 2007; Mekuria and Waddington, 2001). Adoption rate of the
ISFM practices is low. Only 11 percent and 4 percent of sampled plots received fertilizer and
manure in the low market access and high market access villages respectively. The constraints
leading to the low adoption of the ISFM ­ despite their high returns ­ include poverty, lack of
cattle and poor extension services (Akramov, 2009; Nkonya, et al., 2010b). Consistent with
Tittonell, et al., 2008, farmers with no livestock are less likely to use ISFM due to the lack of
household production of manure and animal power for transportation of the bulky input.




22
     Minimum wage in Nigeria is also Naira 7500/month, which is about Naira 300 per 25 working days.


                                                              43
Appendix 2: Table 1: BCA of paddy rice production in Niger and Sokoto states

                                                                              Returns
                                                       Net     NPV            to labor         CO2-eq
                                                       benefit (million BC    000      Yield   balance
    Land management practice                           000 N   N)1      ratio N/day    tons/ha tons/ha2
    All zero                                             13.32     -     9.21     1.02    1.12     10.5
    Crop residues 100%                                   23.04     1.03 24.55     2.56    2.79     11.4
    Compost 1.67 tons/ha, 50% crop
    residues                                              17.21         -0.69       9.98         1.40         1.77           11.0
    Manure 1.67 tons/ha, 50% crop
    residues                                              19.18         -0.55 11.45              1.82         1.98           11.0
    Compost 1.67 tons/ha, 100% crop
    residues                                              24.50           0.13 28.81             2.98         3.26           11.5
    Manure 1.67 tons/ha, 100% crop
    residues                                              30.99           0.59 38.11             3.91         4.28           11.6
    40kgN/ha, manure 1.67tons/ha & 50%
    crop residue                                          38.35           1.25 20.75             3.73         4.33           11.3
    80kgN/ha, 100% crop residue                           78.97           3.59 20.37             8.18         9.49           12.4
    80kgN/ha, 5 tons/ha compost, 100%
    crop residue                                          44.23           1.22 12.66             3.31         3.95           10.4
    80kgN/ha, 5 tons/ha manure, 100%
    crop residue                                          89.03           4.06 22.30             4.66        10.24           12.5
1
  The 100% crop residue only treatment is compared with the all zero treatment. All other treatments are compared with the 100%
crop residue treatment.
2
  Nets out the emission due to manufacturing, transportation and application of fertilizer and emissions from manure, compost &
crop residues.


53.     Using a baseline incorporation of 100 percent of crop residue as a benchmark, we
computed the Net Present Value (NPV) in order to determine the long-term benefits and costs of
each land management practice.23 The results show a similar pattern that practices that combine
crop residues, organic matter and fertilizer were more profitable for rice and maize than practices
that either management alone. NPV and average net benefit for millet practices that include
incorporation of all crop residues do better than those which harvest 50 percent or all crop
residues. Land management practices using compost ­ with a lower percent of nitrogen than
manure ­ also have low profitability. This is largely due to the high labor required to prepare and
apply compost. For cowpea in which no fertilizer organic matter yield response was simulated,
yield was not comparable across all land management practices considered: 100 percent, 50
percent and 0 percent crop residues.




23
  For the 100% crop residue management practices, the benchmark treatment was the one where 100% of crop residues are
harvested.


                                                             44
      Table 2: BCA of different land management practices for millet production in Niger and
      Sokoto States
                                                              NPV                         Returns to                        CO2 equiv.
                                             Net benefit      million                     labor (000        Yield           Balance
                                             (000 N/ha)       N             BC ratio      N/day)            (tons/ha)       (Tons/ha)
Nothing                                      9.50                           4.7           0.86              0.71            12.7
Crop residue 100%                            12.71            3.70          8.9           1.48              1.22            13.1
Compost 1.67 tons/ha, 50% residue            11.63            -1.20         7.6           1.19              1.07            13.0
Manure 1.67 tons/ha, 50% residue             13.22            1.30          9.3           1.55              1.27            13.1
Compost 1.67 tons/ha, 100% residue           13.37            0.90          10.2          1.68              1.38            13.3
Manure 1.67 tons/ha, 100% residue            14.56            3.00          8.2           1.96              1.61            13.4
40kgN/ha, 1.67tons/ha manure, 50% crop
residues                                     9.62             11.80         3.5           1.38              1.38            5.8
80kgN/ha, 100% residue                       10.65            -2.50         2.7           1.19              1.22            2.8
80 kgN/ha, compost 5 tons/ha, 100%
residue                                      10.77            -2.80         2.3           1.47              1.66            3.3
80 kgN/ha, manure 5 tons/ha, residue
100%                                         15.54            5.10          3.7           2.12              2.31            3.5


      Table 3: CBA of cowpea, Cross River, Niger and Sokoto states
                                     Net benefit     BC           Returns to labor        Yield         CO2-eq.         NPV
   Land management practice          (000 N /ha)     ratio        (000 N /day)            tons/ha       tons/ha         (million N)
                                                                        Niger and Sokoto states
              Zero crop residues             21.68    1.60                         0.29          1.57         0.39                 -
              50% crop residues              21.72    1.61                         0.29          1.57         0.40              8.33
             100% crop residues              21.79    1.61                         0.29          1.58         0.40             19.33
                                                                             Cross River state
                Zero crop residues           19.07         1.41                   0.26           1.43         0.41             19.33
                50% crop residues            19.03         1.41                   0.26           1.43         0.41              8.33
               100% crop residues            18.97         1.40                   0.26           1.42         0.40             19.33

      54.     Due to the high energy requirement for manufacturing and transporting fertilizer and the
      consequent CO2 emission, the carbon balance for maize and millet land management practices
      that use fertilizer are lower than those which do not use fertilizer (Table 15 and 18). However,
      the carbon balances for rice are comparable across all land management practices considered.
      However, when area saved due to intensification using fertilizer is considered, land management
      practices that use fertilizer more than compensates the CO2 emissions due to fertilizer
      manufacturing and transportation and application. For example, maize farmers who use only 100
      percent crop residues will need 3.3 ha to produce 4.33 tons/ha achieved on plots receiving
      80kgN/ha, 5 tons/ha of manure and 100 percent crop residue. If the farmer clears shrublands
      (carbon density of 12.7 kgC/ha) to plant maize (cropland density of 5.3 tons C/ha),
      approximately 24.33 tons C/ha will be lost. The CO2 -equivalence of this is far too higher than
      any carbon balance of land management practices that do not use fertilizer.




                                                                   45
      55.     Overall, our results show that farmers using organic soil fertility will realize higher
      profits and carbon sequestration than those using fertilizer alone or those not using fertilizer or
      organic matter. The results also demonstrate the potential of ISFM to mitigate climate change
      through carbon sequestration.


      Table 4: BCA of maize, Niger and Sokoto states
                                                                  NPV                                                                   CO2-eq.
                                            Net benefit           (million N)       BC         Returns to labor         Yield           balance
                                            (000 N /ha)                             ratio      (N 000/day)              tons/ha         tons/ha
All zero                                                41.02                 -        1.71                     2.71             1.03             13.0
100% residue                                            58.90              1.37        2.45                     3.45             1.32             13.0
Compost 1.67 tons/ha, residue
100%                                                    70.01              0.98        2.92                     3.92             1.49             13.3
Manure 1.67 tons/ha, residue 100%                       89.83              4.43        3.74                     4.74             1.81             13.3
Compost 1.67 tons/ha, residue 50%                       54.78             -0.84        2.00                     3.42             1.30             13.2
Manure 1.67 tons/ha, residue 50%                        72.31              2.34        2.65                     2.82             1.58             13.3
40kgN/ha, manure 1.67 tons, 50%
residue                                               175.42              21.95        5.86                    8.31              3.26              8.2
80kgN, residue 100%                                   236.02              38.13        6.59                   10.83              4.32              3.4
80kgN/ha, compost 5 tons/ha,
residue 100%                                          226.79              36.18        4.93                     4.28             4.33              3.6
80kgN/ha, manure 5 tons/ha,
residue 100%                                          227.35              37.22        4.97                     4.35             4.33              3.6

      56.     BCA of cassava in Cross River State. Table 19 shows that cassava is a profitable crop in
      both sites, with average net benefit above Naira 50,000 per ha. The NPV, which measures the
      long-term flows of benefits and costs also shows that the recommended rate of fertilizer of
      20kgN/ha and 5 kgP/ha (Aduayi, et al., 2002) is profitable even though fertilizer application
      increases yield by only 9%.24 This shows a poor response of cassava varieties to fertilizer. The
      results could also be due to poor calibration of the EPIC model, which gave yields much lower
      than farmer yields (Table 13). The results however demonstrate the reason for the low adoption
      of fertilizer use on fertilizer. Only 2 percent of farmers used fertilizer on cassava and 3.38
      percent used either manure or fertilizer (Nkonya, et al., 2009).


      Table 5: BCA of cassava in two sites of Cross River state

                                                                                                  Site 1       Site 2    All sites
       Net benefit (N 000)                                                                         32.53       34.16        33.34
            With fertilizer (20KgN/ha, 5kgP/ha) & manure (1.67tons/ha)                              4.90        4.96         5.02
        With fertilizer (20KgN/ha, 5kgP/ha)                                                        67.63       68.14        67.89
        No fertilizer                                                                              65.69       65.28        65.48
       Net present value (million Naira) Fertilizer & manure
       Net present value (Million Naira) Fertilizer only                                           0.038       0.094        0.066
       Returns to labor (N 000)

      24
           Difference in yield of fertilized and unfertilized plots for all sites, i.e.% yield increase = (4.4-4.02)/4.02)*100


                                                                           46
 Fertilizer & manure                                             367.52   387.14   377.33
  With fertilizer (20KgN/ha, 5kgP/ha)                              0.65     0.73     0.69
  Without fertilizer                                               0.61     0.70     0.66
 Benefit-cost ratio
  With fertilizer and manure                                       1.24     1.30     1.27
 With fertilizer (20KgN/ha, 5kgP/ha)                               2.94     2.97     2.95
 Without fertilizer                                                3.98     3.96     3.97
 Average yield (tons/ha)
  With fertilizer & manure                                         4.90     4.96     5.02
  With fertilizer (20KgN/ha, 5kgP/ha)                              4.65     4.36     4.40
  Without fertilizer                                               4.15     3.68     4.02



Which Land Management Practices are Sustainable?

57.     We evaluated the trend of crop yield over the 30 year simulation period, taking estimated
rainfall and temperature into account, to determine sustainability of the land management
practices considered in this study. As discussed in the introduction, SLM has a broad definition
but we narrowly define it in this case using crop yield trend over the 30 year period used. A land
management practice is not sustainable if it leads to a downward yield trend and is sustainable if
the yield trend is constant or is increasing over the long-term. We used the average yield of the
last 10 years and first 10 years of the 30-year simulation period to define sustainability as
follows:


         S = Y2 ­ Y1

        Where S = sustainability; Y2 = average yield in the last 10 years; Y1 = average yield in
        the first 10 years

58.      Land management is sustainable if S0 and land management is not sustainable if S<0.
Consistent with Tittonell, et al., (2008) and Vanlauwe and Giller (2006), Figure 8 shows that for
maize and rice, land management practices that combine crop residues and organic and mineral
fertilizers are more sustainable than those which use either one the three alone. For cassava all
land management practices are not sustainable. This could be due to the poor calibration of the
EPIC simulation model, which predicted lower yield than farmers' yields. However, since
sustainability is determined using the first difference, the calibration error is netted out and may
not have a significant impact on the yield trend. The major reason for the downward yield trend
for cassava could be the poor response of cassava yield to fertilizer and other inputs. We observe
a similar pattern for millet, where only plots receiving 80kgN/ha, 5 tons/ha of manure and 100
percent crop residues show an upward yield trend. Millet varieties with poor response to
fertilizer could have contributed to the downward trend for land management practices
combining organic and inorganic fertilizer and crop residues at lower rates.




                                                47
59.     All land management practices for cowpea are sustainable, highlighting the significance
of nitrogen fixation that leaves considerable soil nitrogen even when all crop residues are
harvested.

60.    Overall, the results suggest that land management practices that combine organic and
inorganic fertilizers and crop residues are more sustainable than those which use either one of
them alone.


Figure 1: Sustainability of land management practices, 30-year trend
                                3.0
                                      (a) Yield difference: last 10 yrs  first 10 yrs                                                                                                                                                                                 (c) Cassava yield difference:
                                2.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   first 10 years  last 10 years
                                                                              Rice                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                2.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Crop residue    20kgN/ha,     20kgN/ha, 
Yield difference (tons/ha)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100%       5kgP/ha, 100%  5kgP/ha, 1.67 
                                                                              Maize
                                1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.2                   crop residues tons manure, 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100% crop 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     residues
                                1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Difference (tons/ha)
                                0.5

                                0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.6
                                                                                            50% crop residue, 1.7 tons/ha 


                                                                                                                             40kgN/ha, 1.7 tons/ha manure, 
                                                     100% crop residue


                                                                         50% crop residue




                                                                                                                                                              80kgN/ha, 100% residue


                                                                                                                                                                                       80kgN/ha, 5 tons/ha manure
                                       All zero




                                0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0.8
                                                                                                                                  50% crop residue




                                1.0
                                                                                                      manure




                                1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (d) Cowpea yield difference:
                                                   (b) Millet yield difference: 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       last 10 years  first 10 years
                                                  last 10 years  first 10 years
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.3

                                0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Difference (tons/ha)




                                0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.2
                                0.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2
         difference (tons/ha)




                                0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.1
                                0.0
                                0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.1

                                0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                             0.0
                                0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100% crop       50% crop       0% crop 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        residues       residues       residues
                                0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Niger    Cross River
                                1.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    48
          Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies

      NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                     KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

Completed CDD type projects in Nigeria

Project                    Total Credits + Grants       Closing date      Coverage

Community-based Poverty    $60 million + $20 million    Dec 2008          Abia, Cross River, Ekiti, Kebbi,
Reduction Project (CPRP)                                                  Kogi Yobe, Kwara and Ebonyi +
                                                                          Zamfara, Gombe, Edo, and Osun ­
                                                                          supported by AfDB

Local Empowerment and      $70 million + ($8 million    Jun 2009          Adamawa, Bayelsa, Bauchi, Benue,
Environmental              GEF)                                           Katsina, Imo, Oyo, Niger, and Enugu
Management Project
(LEEMP)

Second National Fadama     $100 million in 18 States    Dec 2009          Adamawa, Bauchi, Gombe, Imo,
Development Project        + ($10 million GEF in 6      (closed earlier   Kaduna, Kebbi, Lagos, Niger, Ogun
(FADAMA II)                of these states)             as 87% has been   Oyo, Taraba and FCT + Borno,
                                                        disbursed as of   Plateau, Katsina, Kogi, Kwara and
                                                        Dec 2007)         Jigawa supported by AfDB.




                                                       49
       Current IDA Credits and GEF Grants
                                                                        IDA        GEF
PROJECT                                                         CLOSING Commitment Grant
ID      PROJECT NAME                                            DATE    (US$M)     (US$M)
        Local Empowerment and Environmental Management
P071817 Project                                                 FY10                 8

P097692     National Energy Development Project GEF MSP         FY11                 1
            Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic
P100122     Preparedness and Response Project for Nigeria       FY11    50
            Second National Fadama Development Critical
P073686     Ecosystem Management Project                        FY12                 10.03
            Third National Fadama Development Project (Fadama
P096572     III)                                                FY14    250
P096648     Commercial Agriculture Development                  FY15    150
P072644     Rural Access and Mobility Project (RAMP)            FY15    60




Proposed IDA Credits
PROJECT                                                                 Proposed
ID         PROJECT NAME                                                 IDA (US$M)
P095003    Rural Access and Mobility Project (RAMP) Phase 2             100
P118760    Agricultural Productivity and Competitiveness
           Integrated Animal and Human Health Management
P118854    Project
           West Africa Agricultural Productivity Program APL
P117148    Phase 2




                                             50
                                          Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
               NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                              KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

         Note: Includes only those incremental results for which the GEF incremental support is accountable, given that its
         implementation hinges upon already established and functioning implementation structures.


Development and Global            Indicators                                              Use of Monitoring Information
Environment Objective

To improve the enabling           1.    Stakeholder perception of the enabling            To assess improvements or deterioration in the
environment for scaling up              environment for sustainable land management.*     enabling conditions for driving adoption of
sustainable land management                                                               sustainable land management (SLM)
in participating communities      2.    Direct project beneficiaries.                     (institutional capacities, policy, knowledge).

                                                                                          To assess the capacity of stakeholders to reduce
                                                                                          the threat of land degradation and climate risk
                                                                                          via SLM practice.

Intermediate Outcomes             Indicators                                              Use of Monitoring Information

Component A: Capacity Building, Communication and Information Support

1. Improved participation of       1.    Participating communities that have selected     1.   Confirms community interest in self-
   communities in management             SLM sub-projects for inclusion in their Local         managing the use of their natural
   of natural resources.                 Development Plans (LDPs).                             resources.

2. Improved capacity of            2A. Community Associations reached through             2.   Helps target information and training
   stakeholders to advise on or        training and/or communications on SLM                   efforts.
   implement SLM.                      practice/planning

                                   2B. People reached through training and/or
                                       communications on SLM practice/planning
3. Strengthened capacity of
   participating Local             3.    Local Government Areas trained in rural land     3.   Informs local investment prioritization and
   Government Areas for                  use planning.                                         resource use decisions.
   participatory planning.
                                   4.    State governments participating in development   4.   Measures the ability of Government to
4. Improved capacity of Federal          of Nigeria's multi-sector SLM Investment              convene knowledge and stakeholders to
   and State institutions to             Framework.                                            improve investment programming and
   coordinate on rural land and                                                                resource use decisions related to rural land
   water management across                                                                     productivity and climate resilience.
   sectors.

Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation and Knowledge

1. Knowledge on SLM is            1.    Improved monitoring tools developed to track      Informs knowledge on drivers and rate of
   increasingly accessible to           adoption of SLM practices and changes in land     adoption of SLM practices and the impacts on
   stakeholders.                        productivity.                                     land resources.

                                  2.    Key stakeholders trained in applying the          To assess progress on consolidating fragmented
                                        monitoring tools.                                 knowledge on climate-smart soil and water
                                                                                          conservation.
                                  3.    SLM Information System developed



                                                                        51
    Results Monitoring Arrangements

                            Indicators                        Baseline     Target Values                                        Data Collection and Reporting
                                                              Value        Dec 2010      Dec 2011     Dec 2012     Dec 2013     Frequency   Data Collection   Responsibility for
                                                                                                                                of          Instruments       Data Collection
                                                                                                                                reporting


Development and Global Environment Objective


To improve the enabling     Stakeholder perception of the     Score:       Score:        Score:       Score:       Score:       Annually    Tracking          NFCO M&E
environment for scaling     enabling environment for          0.323*       0.323         0.400        0.500        0.600                    survey of         specialist, with
up sustainable land         sustainable land management.*                                                                                   experts and       SFCO M&E
management in                                                                                                                               actors            specialists
participating communities   (Note: reported as an increase                                                                                  (i.e.,
                            in score** on tracking survey:                                                                                  Composite
                            Composite Index for the                                                                                         Index for the
                            Enabling Environment for                                                                                        Enabling
                            Sustainable Land Management)                                                                                    Environment
                                                                                                                                            for SLM)


                            Direct project beneficiaries**    0            25,900        77,700       155,400      259,000      Annually    Administrative    NFCO M&E
                            (% female) (cumulative)           (% female)   (% female)    (% female)   (% female)   (% female)               Records           specialist, with
                                                                                                                                                              SFCO M&E
                                                                                                                                                              specialists


Component A: Capacity Building, Communication and Information Support


1. Improved participation   Participating communities that    0            1%            3%           6%           10%          Annually    Administrative    SFCO/M&E
   of communities in the    have selected SLM sub-                                                                                          Records           specialists
   management of natural    projects for inclusion in their                (= 74         (= 222       (= 444       (= 740
   resources.               Local Development Plans                        FCAs)         FCAs)        FCAs)        FCAs)                                      NFCO
                            (LDPs) (cumulative % of                                                                                                           aggregates
                            communities)

                            (Note: avg of 350 people in
                            each FCA. Total of 7400
                            Community Associations
                            participating in Fadama III.)



                                                                                        52
                              Indicators                        Baseline       Target Values                                    Data Collection and Reporting
                                                                Value          Dec 2010       Dec 2011    Dec 2012   Dec 2013   Frequency   Data Collection   Responsibility for
                                                                                                                                of          Instruments       Data Collection
                                                                                                                                reporting


2. Improved capacity of       Community Associations            0              200            5000        2200       0          Annually    Administrative    SFCO/M&E
   stakeholders to advise     reached through training and/or                                                                               Records           specialists
   on or implement SLM        communications on SLM
                              practice/planning (# per year):                                                                                                 NFCO
                                                                                                                                                              aggregates


                              People reached through                                                                            Annually    Administrative    SFCO/M&E
                              training and/or communications                                                                                Records           specialists
                              on SLM practice/planning (#
                              per year):                                                                                                                      NFCO
                              a) Community facilitators         a)   0         a)   80        a)   2000   a)   420   a)   0                                   aggregates
                                  (total 2500)                  b)   0         b)   37        b)   370    b)   370   b)   37
                              b) Extension & advisory staff     c)   0         c)   50        c)   250    c)   250   c)   150
                              c) Local govt staff               d)   0         d)   50        d)   250    d)   150   d)   50
                              d) State govt staff               e)   0         e)   50        e)   50     e)   50    e)   50
                              e) Federal govt staff



3. Strengthened capacity      Local Government Areas            0              0              20          40         62         Annually    Administrative    SFCO/M&E
   of participating Local     trained in rural land use                                                                                     Records           specialists
   Government Areas for       planning (cumulative #).
   participatory planning.                                                                                                                                    NFCO
                                                                                                                                                              aggregates


4. Improved capacity of       State governments participating   Terms of       Cross River    5 total     10 total   20 total   Annually    Administrative    NFCO/M&E
   Federal and State          in development of Nigeria's       Reference      State +        states +    states +   states +               Records           specialist, with
   institutions to            multi-sector SLM Investment       approved       federal        federal     federal    federal                                  National SLM
   coordinate on rural land   Framework (cumulative # of        by             govt           govt        govt       govt                                     Committee
   and water management       State governments)                Governmen
   across sectors                                               t's National
                                                                SLM
                                                                Committee




                                                                                             53
                             Indicators                        Baseline       Target Values                                               Data Collection and Reporting
                                                               Value          Dec 2010       Dec 2011       Dec 2012       Dec 2013       Frequency    Data Collection    Responsibility for
                                                                                                                                          of           Instruments        Data Collection
                                                                                                                                          reporting

Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation and Knowledge

1. Knowledge on SLM is       Improved monitoring tools         0              0              2              0              0              Annually     Administrative     NFCO/M&E
increasingly accessible to   developed to track adoption of                                                                                            Records            specialist
stakeholders.                SLM practices and changes in
                             land productivity (# tools)


                             Key stakeholders trained in       0              0              25             25             25             Annually     Administrative     NFCO/M&E
                             applying the monitoring tools                                                                                             Records            specialist
                             (# per year)


                             SLM Information System            No (does       No (under      Yes            Yes            Yes            Annually     Administrative     NFCO/M&E
                             developed (yes/no)                not exist)     developme                                                                Records            specialist
                                                                              nt)


    * Note: These scores break down into the following categories:
             Less than 0.10: The enabling environment in aggregate undermines scaling up of SLM.
             0.10 - 0.49: The enabling environment in aggregate does not adequately support scaling up of SLM.
             0.50 ­ 0.69: The enabling environment in aggregate fairly supports scaling up of SLM.
             0.70 ­ 1.00: The enabling environment in aggregate strongly supports scaling up of SLM.

    * * Note: The # of direct project beneficiaries is calculated as follows: An average of 350 people in each FCA, and a total of 740 Community Associations are estimated to adopt
    SLM practices through outreach efforts under the incremental GEF support to the baseline Fadama III operation. 350(740) = 259,000.




                                                                                           54
                            Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
     NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                    KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

Project Approach and Scope

1.      Scaling Up SLM Practice, Knowledge and Coordination is a three-and-a-half-year
incremental GEF grant of $6.8 million to the Federal Republic of Nigeria focused on
mainstreaming sustainable land management (SLM) in an existing nation-wide rural
development flagship program, the Third National Fadama Development Project (Fadama III --
referred to here as the baseline project). The GEF incremental grant will be fully integrated into
it.

2.      Fadama III is a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) designed to assist the Government in
increasing rural income and reducing poverty in rural areas. The baseline project became
effective in March 2009 and has a closing date of December 2013. The baseline project is of
national scope and will thus operate in all 36 Nigerian States and the Federal Capital Territory
(FCT). It builds on previous community development initiatives covering a limited number of
States. Fadama III is $450 million, financed by $250 million IDA and the rest covered by
counterpart financing. Of this $450 million, $99.1 million is considered direct co-financing for
the purposes of the GEF incremental grant.

3.      The Fadama series has evolved over the years into a large-scale national community-
driven rural development program different from the predecessor operations, which focused on
floodplain agriculture in a limited number of States. The project directly reaches 2.2 million
households, or 12 million individuals, with a proven government-led implementation mechanism
with nationwide reach and credibility. The operation is an important opportunity for
mainstreaming SLM to secure long-term sector goals. The existing Fadama III operation aims to
increase the incomes of users of rural land and water resources through demand-driven
investment and empowerment of local community groups to improve productivity. Fadama III
has six components: (i) capacity building, communications and information support, (ii) small-
scale community infrastructure, (iii) advisory services and inputs, (iv) extension services
(ADPs), research and on-farm demonstrations, (v5) asset acquisition for economic interest
groups (EIGs), (vi) Project management and M&E. The Fadama III PAD explicitly notes that
SLM is part of the overall Project strategy. It further notes that this incremental GEF grant will
be fully integrated to help support the work on SLM.

4.     The GEF grant described below provides incremental support to Fadama III components
and 1 and 6 to improve the enabling environment for up scaling climate-smart SLM, particularly:
knowledge fertilization, environmental and institutional monitoring tools, institutional capacity
building at federal, state and local levels, and outreach and advocacy on SLM practice and
policy. This incremental support will help Nigeria upscale improved land and water
management, and set the stage for expanding SLM practice beyond the life of the Project,
especially as current climate variability will likely affect Project and sector aspirations.

5.      However, GEF financed activities implemented at the state level will not cover all 36
States of Nigeria. Instead, GEF support will focus only on those 30 States plus the FCT that do

                                               55
not yet have institutional structures for cross-sectoral coordination and rural land use planning in
place. In the six other States (Imo, Kebbi, Kwara, Kogi, Ogun, and Bauchi), state-level
watershed committees, which also serve as sub-committees to the National SLM Committee,
have already been established. Consequently, these six States are excluded from additional GEF
investments in an effort to avoid duplication of existing external funding support related to
capacity building for mainstreaming of SLM at State level.

Basis for selection of activities financed by GEF

6.     The project activities funded by the GEF incremental grant have been collaboratively
designed to assist the Government in improving the enabling environment for SLM and
mainstreaming SLM practice in rural development. The GEF incremental grant specifically aims
at:

         Facilitating the establishment of a community of practice on SLM, supported by
         awareness raising, capacity building, knowledge and M&E services, and consistent with
         local development planning processes (Incremental funding for Components 1 and 6).
         Strengthening institutions charged with management of land resources, at Federal, State,
         and local government level, including by reinforcing Nigeria's cross-sectoral
         coordination platform for investment and policy on land use and management
         (Incremental funding for Components 1 and 6).

7.      Through this work the Project aims to support the higher level goal of securing the
productivity and climate resilience of Nigeria's land, water, and forest resources that underpin
rural and agricultural development.

Beneficiaries

8.      The primary beneficiaries of the GEF incremental grant are rural community groups25
exposed to the socio-economic and environmental impacts of land degradation and climate
variability. In the baseline Fadama III project, which the GEF supports, an estimated 2.2 million
rural poor households will potentially benefit from improved management of land resources,
resulting in enhanced land productivity, income generation, and global and local environmental
benefits. Secondary beneficiaries include public and private practitioners at Federal, State, and
local government levels that enable SLM up-scaling.

Project Components

9.    The GEF support is fully integrated into Fadama III and reinforces its existing
components 1 and 6. Each component is incremental to the respective Fadama III
component. The text below describes the GEF incremental support only. For more details on the
components of the existing baseline Fadama III Project, see annex 17 below and/or the approved
PAD for Fadama III.

10.      There are two components in the GEF project:

25
   Communities are organized in economic interest groups (EIGs), which together form registered Community Associations -- an
apex organization that represent the collective interests of the EIGs.

                                                            56
       Component A: Capacity Building, Communications and Information Support
       (US$6.00m GEF, integrated into Component 1 of Fadama III)
       Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation, and Knowledge (US$0.80m financed by GEF,
       integrated into Component 6 of Fadama III)

GEF Component A: Capacity Building, Communications and Information Support
(US$6.00m GEF, integrated into baseline Component 1)

11.    Background: The existing Component 1 of Fadama III is building the underlying capacity
at federal, state, and local government levels to support innovations in local development
planning and provide the support structures for delivery of community demand-driven
investments in rural development. Communities are mobilized to form viable Economic Interest
Groups (EIGs) that are organized into a network of registered Community Associations
nationwide. Communications and training programs will empower communities to prepare Local
Development Plans (LDPs). Capacities of Local Governments and other stakeholders such as
advisory service providers will be strengthened to better respond to the needs of their
communities and to improve decision-making, local development planning, and governance.

12.    Incremental GEF funding will support the following activities:

(A1) Capacity Building Support for Community Organizations for Local Development
Planning (US$1.29m GEF)

13.     The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to strengthen local
development processes towards a more holistic view of rural development, including
consideration of land degradation threats and climate risks. The aim is to increasingly
mainstream SLM approaches and technologies in the implementation of Local Development
Plans, specifically in prioritized investments in agricultural production systems in order support
communities to control land degradation and adapt to climate change. To achieve this, capacity
and awareness on SLM technologies will be built at all levels of the facilitation structure that
supports delivery of community driven rural development. Capacity building activities will target
a wide spectrum of stakeholders, including policy makers at national level, technical staff at
State level, development planners and project facilitators at local government level, national
extension services (ADPs), and land users organized in EIGs and Community Associations.

14.     More specifically, incremental support will be provided to develop a detailed SLM
training program and production of training material, customized for the specific awareness and
capacity building needs of the different stakeholder groups described above. GEF will finance
the competitive recruitment of six SLM trainers at zonal level for the delivery of the SLM
training sessions, including production and dissemination of training material. GEF-financed
SLM trainers will complement training and capacity building personnel provided for under the
baseline project. The cost of organizing and facilitating training for the wide audience of
stakeholders to be trained will be covered by co-financing from the baseline Fadama III project.
GEF resources will thus cost-effectively dovetail with the planned capacity building program
under the baseline project.

15.     Incremental GEF funding to install six SLM trainers at zonal level follows a "train-the-
trainers" model to deliver the various capacity building activities within the planned baseline

                                               57
Project's training program. These trainers will work with a broad audience including: State
Project Environment Officers and Local Project Desk Officers seconded to the project, ADP's
public subject matter specialists and extension officers, as well as community facilitators
employed under the baseline project to engage with communities on SLM. The training will
focus on supporting the operationalization of community sub-project investments under the
existing matching grant facilities of Fadama III. Guidelines will be developed and disseminated
as a tool for embedding and consolidating SLM practice into planned investments in agricultural
production systems prioritized in LDPs. Community facilitators, extension services, service
providers, and local government desk officers will then be better capacitated to boost
understanding and knowledge within EIGs on the multiple benefits of SLM, including climate
adaptation benefits. Community facilitators and LGA desk officers will further play a critical
role in mobilizing communities to integrate SLM and climate risk considerations into prioritized
land production investment as identified in LDPs. Transferring knowledge on promising SLM
technologies to local community groups will empower them to better secure livelihoods, manage
lands more sustainably, and adapt better to the risks of climate change and variability.

16.    The six zonal SLM Trainers will further serve as knowledge resource persons to service
stakeholders at both State and local government levels in responding to the SLM information and
knowledge needs of their constituencies.

17.    Specific activities that will be financed include:

       (A1.1) Development of a SLM training program on land, water, and forest resources:
       The training program will be structured according to the different target groups: (i)
       Capacity building activities for policy makers and supporting technical staff at national
       and state level will focus on land related policies and necessary reforms as well as cross
       sectoral investment planning. Corresponding training of state level officials will be
       grouped according to agro-ecological zones; (ii) Capacity building for State Environment
       Officers (37), Community Facilitators (approximately 2500), Local Desk Officers
       (approximately 1500), and Subject Matter Specialists and extension officers
       (approximately 800) will focus on technical understanding of SLM practices (see table 1
       below) and their economic and environmental returns over different timeframes,
       applicability of specific practices in the different agro-climatic conditions, climate change
       adaptation potential of different technologies, etc. Capacity building will further include
       operational aspects of adopting different SLM practices at the farm level. Consideration
       will be given to include farmer-to-farmer exchanges as part of the training program, as
       some practices, such as incorporating Gliricidia and Leucaena trees into farming systems,
       have been successfully adopted in one part of Nigeria but not in another. A number of
       traditional practices are extremely beneficial and should not be abandoned.

       (A1.2) Development of SLM training material: Training material will be developed to
       support the capacity building activities outlined above. Training material will be
       customized to the needs of the different target audiences: Policy briefs and general SLM
       reference material will be developed for national and state level capacity building. SLM
       technology handbooks will be developed for Community Facilitators, National Extension
       Service staff, as well as community-level audiences. SLM technology handbooks will
       provide detailed profiles on each SLM technology and will be organized according to the
       three major agro-ecological zones (see Annex 1, and also Annex 4 para 17 for table of

                                                58
eligible SLM practices). All training material will build on extensive knowledge and
publications available in the country and globally (e.g. through the TerrAfrica
Knowledge Base), as well as country-specific analytical work that is currently sponsored
by the World Bank as a contribution to the TerrAfrica platform (e.g. Nigeria case studies
of SLM approaches to mitigate and reduce vulnerability to climate change in SSA
(IFPRI, ICRAF, ICRISAT); Key institutional, financing, and economic elements for
scaling up SLM in Mali and Nigeria (IFPRI, ICRISAT), which includes a review of land
management costs, benefits, and public expenditures in Cross River, Sokoto and Niger
States).

(A1.3) Training of trainers program: Six competitively selected SLM trainers will be
contracted as consultancies to lead capacity building efforts for SLM in the six different
project zones. They will deliver a series of capacity building and learning events specific
to SLM practices and technologies and serve as SLM knowledge focal points in each of
the project zones. The main purpose of the six SLM trainers will be to transfer knowledge
on viable SLM investments to key stakeholders in the CDD-sub-project cycle, in
particular: Community Facilitators and extension officers working at the community
level, as well as Local Desk Officers, and State Environment Offices at LGA and State
level, respectively. Facilitation represents an important element for overall project
success and sustainability of community-selected activities and investments in a CDD
project. As such, the baseline project is employing approximately 2500 Community
Facilitators, which together with approximately 800 public extension officers employed
under the ADP, will facilitate and guide the CDD sub-project process. The facilitation
process is sequenced in: community mobilization; participatory community needs
assessments; consequent development of investment activities that are presented,
prioritized, and budgeted in Local Development Plans (LDPs), and subsequently,
development of detailed sub-project proposals for each of the investment priorities
eligible for funding support under the Project.




                                        59
                    Table 1. SLM practices promoted in the Project




                                               Returns accrue in short term



                                                                                                           Returns accrue in long term
                                                                              Returns accrue in med term
                                    Agro
                                   ecology
                                                                                                                                                  Possible climate                  Possible environmental
      SLM related activity          Forest
                                                                                                                                                 adaptation benefit                         benefit
                                 Sudan/Sahel
                                  Savannah



 1   Orchards                    Forest                                                                                                  Livelihoods diversification           Reduces pressure for agricultural
                                 Sudan/Sahel                                                                                                                                   land conversions, more biomass,
                                 Savannah                                                                                                                                      reduced erosion, agro-biodiversity
 2   Vegetative barrier / live   Forest                                                                                                  Income and livelihoods                Increased soil fertility, reduced
     fencing (border hedges      Sudan/Sahel                                                                                             diversification                       erosion, more biomass, carbon,
     or trees, etc.)             Savannah                                                                                                                                      greater land productivity
 3   Traditional/updated         Forest                                                                                                  Income and livelihoods                Increased soil fertility, more
     mixed cropping              Sudan/Sahel                                                                                             diversification                       biomass, carbon, greater land
     systems                     Savannah                                                                                                                                      productivity, rainfall infiltration
 4   Planting pits               Sudan/Sahel                                                                                             Soil moisture retention               Soil fertility, soil carbon, reduced
     (sometimes called zai       Savannah                                                                                                                                      erosion
     or tassa)
 5   Woodlots                    Forest                                                                                                  Alternate source of fuel and          Reduces deforestation and forest
                                 Sudan/Sahel                                                                                             building materials                    degradation, carbon sink retained
                                 Savannah
 6   Nursery establishment       Forest                                                                                                  Alternate source of seed, fuel,       Reduces deforestation and forest
                                 Sudan/Sahel                                                                                             fodder, and building materials        degradation, carbon sink retained
                                 Savannah
 7   Mulch                       Forest                                                                                                  Soil moisture and retention,          Increased soil fertility, soil carbon,
     production/application      Sudan/Sahel                                                                                             livelihoods                           water infiltration
                                 Savannah
 8   Compost                     Forest                                                                                                  Soil moisture, livelihoods            Increased soil fertility, soil carbon,
     production/application      Sudan/Sahel                                                                                                                                   water infiltration
                                 Savannah
 9   Physical soil/water         Forest                                                                                                  Soil retention and fertility, water   Reduced soil loss and siltation,
     conservation measures:      Sudan/Sahel                                                                                             availability and infiltration         more biomass, more carbon,
     soil and stone bunds,       Savannah                                                                                                                                      greater water infiltration, greater
     trash lines, bench                                                                                                                                                        land productivity
     terraces, grass strips or
     other vegetative barriers
     and live fencing, low-
     till, small dams,
     planting pits, ridging,
     ridge tying, furrow,
     improved fallowing)
10   Flood control measures      Forest                                                                                                  Reduced flooding threat from          Reduced soil loss and siltation
                                 Sudan/Sahel                                                                                             more intense rainfall
                                 Savannah


                                                                                                                                            60
12   Stock routes and/or        Sudan/Sahel   Improved access to watering          Reduced pressure on land, reduced
     rotations                  Savannah      points and pasture                   deforestation

13   Grazing reserves and/or    Sudan/Sahel   Improved access to watering          Reduced pressure on land, reduced
     rotations                  Savannah      points and pasture                   deforestation, reduced range to
                                                                                   crop conversions
14   Common watering            Sudan/Sahel   Greater resiliency of stock to       Reduced trampling of crops and
     points on rangeland        Savannah      drought                              conflict over natural resources,
     (micro dams, tube                                                             reduced trampling of pasture
     wells, but no boreholes                                                       vegetation
     without impact analysis
     on water table)
15   Small earth dam            Sudan/Sahel   Greater access to water for          More biomass and soil carbon
                                Savannah      agriculture, improved soil
                                              moisture
16   Agroforestry: Gmelina      Forest        Income and livelihoods               Increased soil fertility, reduced
     arborea                    Sudan/Sahel   diversification, wood, fuel,         erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                Savannah      additional fodder                    land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                   infiltration
17   Agroforestry: Leucaena     Forest        Income and livelihoods               Increased soil fertility, reduced
                                Savannah      diversification, wood, fuel,         erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                              additional fodder                    land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                   infiltration
18   Agroforestry: Gliricidia   Sudan/Sahel   Drought tolerance, income and        Increased soil fertility, reduced
                                Savannah      livelihoods diversification, wood,   erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                              fuel, additional fodder,             land productivity, rainfall
                                              medicines, land reclamation          infiltration
19   Agroforestry: Irvingia     Forest        Income and livelihoods               Increased soil fertility, reduced
     gabonensis                 Savannah      diversification, wood, fuel,         erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                              additional fodder                    land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                   infiltration
20   Agroforestry: Treculia     Forest        Income and livelihoods               Increased soil fertility, reduced
     africana                   Savannah      diversification, wood, fuel,         erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                              additional fodder                    land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                   infiltration
21   Agroforestry: Acacia       Sudan/Sahel   Income and livelihoods               Increased soil fertility, reduced
     albida                                   diversification, wood, fuel,         erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                              additional fodder                    land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                   infiltration
22   Agroforestry: Acacia       Sudan/Sahel   Income and livelihoods               Increased soil fertility, reduced
     senegal                                  diversification, wood, fuel,         erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                              additional fodder                    land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                   infiltration
23   Agroforestry: Neem         Forest        Income and livelihoods               Increased soil fertility, reduced
                                Sudan/Sahel   diversification, wood, fuel,         erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                Savannah      additional fodder                    land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                   infiltration
24   Agroforestry:              Forest        Income and livelihoods               Increased soil fertility, reduced
     Eucalyptus                 Sudan/Sahel   diversification, wood, fuel,         erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                Savannah      additional fodder                    land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                   infiltration
25   Agroforestry: Bamboo       Forest        Income and livelihoods               Increased soil fertility, reduced
                                Sudan/Sahel   diversification, wood, fuel,         erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                Savannah      additional fodder                    land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                   infiltration


                                                61
26   Agroforestry: Jatropha   Sudan/Sahel                 Income and livelihoods         Increased soil fertility, reduced
                                                          diversification, wood, fuel,   erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                                          additional fodder              land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                         infiltration
27   Agroforestry: Tectona    Forest                      Income and livelihoods         Increased soil fertility, reduced
     grandis                  Savannah                    diversification, wood, fuel,   erosion, more biomass, carbon,
                                                          additional fodder              land productivity, rainfall
                                                                                         infiltration



          (A2) Capacity Building for Local Governments for Rural Land Use Planning (US$1.51m
          GEF)

          18.     The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to build capacity of local
          governments to carry out rural land use planning that balances the need for maximization of
          productivity and long-term sustainability of land, water and forest resources. Due to the limited
          GEF funding envelope, 62 local governments (2 per State for all eligible 30 States plus FCT)
          among the existing participating LGAs will be selected based on agreed criteria (i.e. readiness,
          level of land degradation threats, etc.). These criteria will be decided jointly by the SFCO and
          NFCO (including Zonal Coordinators).Few, if any, LGAs are currently engaged in rural land use
          planning or natural asset mapping. Incremental funding will provide for the underlying capacity
          building support to LGAs, for carrying out consultative spatial planning, and for a small package
          of geographic information system equipment. Ideally, existing local knowledge on land
          capability and ecosystem resilience to climate variability will inform the development of rural
          use plans.

          19.      Specific activities that will be financed include:

                   (A2.1) LGA capacity building: Six training workshops on rural land use planning will be
                   carried out at the zonal level and will involve at least 2 participants (in particular
                   Development Planners, Land Officers and Surveyors) of the 62 selected LGAs. Capacity
                   building of LGA staff will focus on community-based land use planning, mapping and
                   ground-truthing, as well as more effective involvement of Land Allocation Advisory
                   Committees in land use planning.

                   (A2.2) LGA rural land use planning support package: Each of the 62 participating
                   LGAs will be supported with a small equipment package to strengthen institutional
                   capacity for rural land use planning including natural resource asset mapping (data
                   transformation image analysis, etc.).

                   (A2.3) Development of rural land use plans: Each of the 62 participating LGAs will be
                   supported with the development of rural land use plans. Activities feeding into the
                   development of rural land use plans will include: i) consultations with local community
                   authorities (local councils) to define a common vision on land use profiles and key trends
                   in local land and natural resource assets, ii) participatory appraisal of draft land use maps
                   including zoning profiles for specific resource systems, such as forest areas, grazing
                   reserves, key watersheds, agricultural land, protected areas, waste lands, etc., iii) GIS
                   application including data transformation and image analysis at the level of the LGA, iv)
                   follow-up and monitoring activities for updates of rural land use plans.


                                                            62
(A3)   Communications and Outreach ($0.81m GEF)

20.     The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to heighten awareness of
stakeholders at all levels on SLM as a pragmatic way increase land quality and productivity,
control land degradation, and reduce climate change risks. These stakeholders include those
active in Fadama III implementation including extension and advisory service providers,
community facilitators and groups, Local Governments, etc. The communication activities, in
tandem with capacity building activities described above, will play an important role to mobilize
and incentivize land users to invest in sub-projects for sustainable land and water management
under the existing demand-driven matching grant facility. Incremental funding will support
mainstreaming of SLM practice in the overall sensitization campaign to be delivered under the
baseline project. SLM communication and training modules will be developed and integrated
into the communication and training programs of Fadama III. The communication modules will
target land users, local authorities, and the general public via media such as radio and TV,
newspapers and other print media, etc. The Project will finance development, production, and
dissemination of the SLM related communication and information material, some of which will
need to be adapted to the specific characteristics of the different agro-ecological zones of Nigeria
as well as the specific needs of the different States.

21.    Specific activities that will be financed include:

       (A3.1) A national awareness seminar targeting policy makers will be held to raise
       awareness of key land degradation threats and climate change risks in the different agro-
       ecological zones of Nigeria, and build a common understanding on the important
       opportunities of SLM for securing agricultural productivity, food security, as well as
       climate and other environmental benefits. The workshop will be initiated through the
       SLM Steering Committee and will review land-related policies to identify a strategic
       reforms were necessary. The seminar will provide a high profile venue for the FGN to
       continue to strengthen cross-sectoral coalition building.

       (A3.2) A National communication strategy for SLM will be developed including a
       detailed annual program of communication activities that are aligned with other
       communication events and efforts carried out under the baseline project. The
       Communication Strategy will be presented to the National Fadama Technical Committee
       as well as the National SLM Committee for review and approval. It will be updated at
       midterm review and before project completion. The Communication Activity Program,
       which represents the operational part of the National SLM Communication Strategy, will
       be updated annually. All updates to the Communication Package will be presented to the
       National SLM Committee for review and validation. As a key part of the communication
       package, a set of ready-to-use communication messages will be developed. These will be
       of different length, thematic depth, etc. in order to meet the needs of different target
       audiences and the specifics of different communication media (print, audio, visual, multi-
       media, etc.). The resulting communication toolbox will serve to create a harmonized
       message on SLM nationwide and will form the basis for locally adapted communication
       activities at the State level.




                                                 63
            (A3.3) A set of communication and broadcasting material (Posters, flyers, good practice
            manuals, radio and TV features etc.) will be produced. To the extent possible
            communication material will be developed for national distribution. However, a share of
            the communication budget will be channeled to the State level to enable locally
            appropriate customization of communication material, i.e. a focus on locally relevant land
            degradation threats and locally adapted response strategies that take into account local
            production systems, social factors, etc.

(A4)         National and State Coordination on Land and Water Management (US$0.48m GEF)

22.     The objective of this fully GEF funded subcomponent is to increase the effectiveness,
capability, transparency, accountability, and responsiveness of government and other
stakeholders to convene evidence and knowledge and improve investment programming on
climate-smart land and water management, and help mainstream SLM practice and policy into
State and National development planning. To guide this process, the Federal Government
established the multi-sector National SLM Committee, chaired by FMARD (see Annex 16 for
details). This sub-component includes a suite of activities that build on the government's on-
going actions to develop a "public sphere," including the public sector, media, civil society,
academia, and producer and community associations. This approach can lead to a change in the
way that projects and programs are selected, designed and deliberated. It advocates for greater
participation, transparency and accountability. This is seen as a major vehicle for scaling up
SLM practices such as low tillage, agroforestry, grazing rotation and reserves, erosion control,
rural land use planning including watershed planning, natural asset mapping, forest protection,
and small irrigation in order to improve development outcomes.

23.     More specifically, this sub-component will strengthen and equip the National SLM
Committee to continue developing and implementing its emerging SLM Investment Framework.
This activity will form part of the country's CAADP investment program, and is in line with the
President's 7 Point Agenda, NEEDS, SEEDS, sector strategies, and the TerrAfrica partnership
under which support has already been provided. The SLM Investment Framework is a suite of
prioritized on-going, pipeline, and future investments, and is accompanied by other institutional
support such as a knowledge and information systems26, M&E tools, and associated institutional
development at State and Federal levels. This effort is already embedded into the national policy
dialogue. The SLM Investment Framework allows the country to articulate a more focused
investment agenda on cross-cutting land issues including agricultural productivity, climate
change, watershed management, and forest.

24.     Support will also be provided to continue sensitization among state governments and
other actors with the aim of expanding the alliance and advancing evidence-based investment
decisions and policy-oriented dialogues to address land degradation and climate risk threats. So
far the national SLM Committee has met with governments, academia and other stakeholders in
all 36 States to build the national alliance on land and identify initial priorities.

25.     Incremental financing will further help to advance the analytical discussion related to
rural land use and land use change by convening national experts, supporting national learning
events and capacity building programs related to land use and watershed planning, quantitative

26
     See more details for this activity funded under Component B.

                                                                64
methods to assess benefits from sustainable land management (cost-benefit, modeling, etc.),
climate risk management, etc.

26.   Specific activities that will be financed include:

      (A4.1) Coalition Building: At the national level, incremental funding will support the on-
      going process of coalition building and networking for improving investment
      programming on SLM and mainstreaming this into the national policy and investment
      planning process as per detailed work program of the National SLM Committee. This
      will include: (i) sponsoring of cross-state learning and communications events aimed to
      strengthen partnership and implementation among research, extension, producer
      organizations, media, NGOs, project teams, and the state and national SLM committees,
      (ii) policy workshops under the lead of the National SLM Committee, (iii) capacity
      building of representatives on the National SLM Committee, as well as selected SLM
      focal points in government and non-government entities, (iv) back-stopping technical
      support for development and nurturing of State-level SLM Committees, (v) operational
      support to track progress on the overall implementation of activities led by the state-level
      SLM committees.

      At the State level, support will be provided for technical assistance and incremental
      operating cost related to establishment of State-level SLM Committees in 30 States that
      do not yet have cross-sectoral committees in place. This will complement six existing
      watershed committees that can also function as SLM committees in the remaining 6
      States. Incremental operating cost will cover advocacy and communication activities in
      support of mainstreaming SLM in policy and decision making and fostering inter-sectoral
      collaboration initiatives.

      (A4.2) Knowledge Management and Information Support: A comprehensive Nigeria
      SLM Information System is planned. This will have three elements: (i) a National SLM
      gateway website for practitioners and policymakers, (ii) a Technical SLM Knowledge
      Base, and (iii) a mapping function for visualizing spatial data. The first element, the
      development of a National SLM website, will be financially supported under this sub-
      component (the Technical SLM Knowledge Base and mapping function will be
      supported under Component B). The National SLM website will be a gateway to
      information related to land, agriculture, forest, water, and climate in Nigeria, as part of
      the effort to strengthen an emerging community of practitioners around sustainable land
      use and management. Elements will include stories on land related Project and non-
      project activities, events and updates from the national SLM investment platform and
      associated State level platforms/committees, news, simple interactive maps (i.e.,
      simplified GIS), a contacts function, featured high profile analytical and diagnostic work,
      and reporting on a small set of shared national key program-level M&E indicators for the
      investment platform. The SLM website will be integrated with the second element of the
      SLM Information System, the Technical Knowledge Base, which focuses primarily on
      dissemination among practitioners of a wide array analytics, diagnostics, detailed maps,
      and experiences on land use and management (funded under Project Component B).

      Training for website development and maintenance as well as data management and
      overall maintenance will be provided to technical and secretarial staff involved in the

                                                65
       National SLM Committee, as well as key stakeholders active in the national coalition.
       Training will ensure that the knowledge management and information support systems
       are adequately maintained and updated over time, and used to improve investment
       programming inside and outside the Project.

       (A4.3) Investment Alignment and Institutional Capacity: This Project will financially
       support Nigeria as it continues to prepare a Strategic Investment Framework for SLM.
       Work has already begun in Cross River State. This national investment plan, owned by
       the FGN and participating States, will include a suite of costed investment priorities on
       SLM related to agriculture, forest, natural resources and climate change. Interventions
       will draw upon land management successes, including some supported via the Fadama
       operation. The Investment Framework is being developed through a phased process that
       will gradually bring in more stakeholders and States around one shared investment and
       policy dialogue on improving land productivity and reducing climate risks. Development
       of the Investment Framework includes: (i) Technical assistance with diagnostics and
       stocktaking exercises to provide quality information for SLM investment prioritization,
       (ii) A deeply collaborative process of priority setting in terms of thematic, geographic,
       and operational investment needs, (iii) Consultation and validation workshops on the
       draft Investment Framework with a wider range of stakeholders at all levels, (iv)
       Finalization and dissemination of the Investment Framework, (v) Implementation
       (supported by other Project activities mentioned above including knowledge
       management, M&E tools, sensitization, coalition building, and institutional capacity
       development), and (vi) Periodic updating of the Investment Framework by Nigeria's
       emerging SLM coalition.

       To support the preparation process, the National SLM Committee will be supported with
       secretariat functions, technical advisory services, workshops and communications.

(A5)   Community SLM Award (US$1.91m GEF)

27.     The Community SLM Award is a grant facility, funded entirely by the GEF, to reward
existing participating communities that are successfully implementing community SLM sub-
projects that have been financed under component 2 of the Fadama III operation, and which have
community involvement and visible public goods. These sub-projects include grazing reserves,
soil and water conservation, etc. (See Annex 1 or table 1 above in para 17 for the list). Each
award comes in the form of an additional complementary SLM sub-project that a community
then becomes eligible to implement, up to a value of $10,000 (with no counterpart funding
required). A total of 185 communities will receive the award, five from each State and the FCT.
The efforts of communities successfully implementing SLM sub-projects will be visibly
recognized through this additional award by linking to the communications and outreach efforts.

28.     Rationale. SLM activities are in the positive list of the Fadama III project and may be
included by community groups as part of their Local Development Plans (LDPs). However,
unless land degradation and climate risks are current and visible threats, choosing SLM activities
is not always attractive to communities because the SLM activities do not always bring
immediate income and can be perceived to generate mostly public goods. There are some
incentives that will be put in place with GEF support to encourage adoption of SLM by
communities, focusing on knowledge fertilization and capacity building. This could translate into

                                               66
greater adoption of SLM practices or/and more SLM activities included into LDPs. The
Community SLM Award adds to these incentives by helping consolidate practitioners at the local
level and indentifying which interventions are working that could be scaled up.

29.     Selection. Selection will be made in two stages. The first stage will be through
nominations made by the community facilitators already in place under the Fadama III project,
working with the Local Governments' existing Fadama desk officers. The facilitators and
officers will nominate those community-level SLM sub-projects that are under good
implementation according to existing sub-project standards and have good communal benefits.
These projects must have been financed through the Fadama III project and must be eligible
SLM activities (see Annex 4 para 17 for table of SLM activities). Criteria for selection are:

           The sub-project is clearly in the approved Local Development Plan.
           Community members are actively involved in the implementation of the sub-project
           (at least as members of Community Association or EIG).
           The sub-project is owned by the Community Association or EIG.
           The sub-project has transparent financial management (such as construction of notice
           board containing sub-project information).
           The activity can easily be replicated and has clear communal benefit, generating
           public goods.
           Community members are willing to share their experiences with neighboring
           communities and other project participants nationwide.

30.      These nominations will then be passed on to the second stage. A Committee composed of
three staff from the given SFCO plus a representative of the NFCO will select the final 5 SLM
community sub-projects in each state from among the nominated SLM sub-projects forwarded
by the facilitators and local government desk officers. This final selection will apply the same
criteria as above.

31.     Making and monitoring the award. An award ceremony will be held in each of the six
Zones to recognize the efforts of these communities, and forge linkages on knowledge and
practice across States, Local Governments, and land users. Each winner will be presented with a
certificate and a promissory letter to fund additional an identified SLM activity up to $10,000.

32.    Each award grant will fund an additional SLM sub-project identified by the communities,
following the normal procedures under component 2 of Fadama III. A difference from the
normal procedure is that counterpart payments will not be necessary as would normally be
required. Subsequently, the implementation will be monitored by the SFCO as usual.

33.    Specific activities to be financed include:

       (A5.1) Grant award facility for grants for up to $10,000 for each of five Community
       Association awards for each of 36 States plus the FCT (37 in total). The award is in the
       form of one additional 100% GEF financed SLM sub-project to be implemented under
       component 2 of the Fadama III baseline project.

       (A5.2) Awareness raising, TA and administration for the grant facility, including: (i)
       State, Zone, and Federal level showcasing of best community sub-projects, for

                                                67
       knowledge sharing and awareness raising purposes; (ii) communications and outreach,
       and (iii) facilitation and organization of the Community SLM Award.

GEF Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation, and Knowledge (US$0.80m financed by GEF,
integrated into baseline Component 6)

34.     Background: Component 6 of the existing Fadama III project will finance the cost of
project management and coordination, monitoring and impact evaluation, as well as the cost of
screening and ensuring EMP compliance.

35.    Incremental GEF funding will support the following activities (none include project
administration, which is already fully covered by the baseline project):

36.    The objective of incremental funding to this sub-component is to enhance the SLM
dimensions of the M&E system and Management Information System (MIS) established under
the baseline project. Incremental funding will cover development and application of indicators,
tracking tools, an SLM knowledge base and capacity building and technical assistance for
implementing them.

37.     There is IDA financing in place for a baseline survey carried out in 2009. This survey
will provide information on household/community perceptions of land quality and risk reduction
measures, adoption rates of SLM practices, as well as other field-based data. Overall, local land
users are participating in the monitoring process to ensure local ownership and understanding of
socio-economic and environmental benefits. This baseline survey forms the start of a process of
carrying out an impact evaluation on Fadama III. By funding the activities described below, the
GEF incremental support will ensure that the impact evaluation includes analysis of the SLM
dimensions of the integrated IDA and GEF support to Fadama III.

38.     Limited incremental funding will further serve to strengthen technical expertise within
the NFCO. Three staff positions within the NFCO technical support team are set to expire in
2011. In order to ensure adequate technical input, coordination support and M&E accountability
beyond 2011, GEF will finance technical support to NFCO related to (i) GIS and land use
mapping, (i) facilitation of SLM activities and technology guidance, and (iii) SLM M&E for the
final two years of the project.

(B1)    Monitoring tools (US$0.66m GEF)

39.     These monitoring tools will allow stakeholders within the project and also beyond the
project to help the government measure overall land productivity trends as well as changes in the
enabling environment important for scaling up climate-smart sustainable agriculture and
integrated land and water management. This will strengthen and help sustain post-project impact.
The NFCO has responsibility for these tools.

40.    Specific activities to be financed include:

        (B1.1) Refining and implementing the Composite Index for the SLM Enabling
       Environment (CI). The CI is used for the key performance indicator that tracks progress
       toward the Project's development and global environment objective. It was developed

                                                68
and applied during project preparation as a simple and low-cost perception based survey
among experts on the extent to which the enabling conditions for SLM (institutions,
financing, knowledge, etc) are improving or deteriorating. Because Fadama III has
nationwide reach and is itself mainstreamed into Federal, State, and Local governments,
this tool is applicable as an indicator for this project, as well as more generally to track
Nigeria's capacities to implement SLM over time. Similar tools are successfully used in
the health and education sectors but have not yet been translated and operationalized for
agriculture and NRM.

Definition
The average score given to a national SLM effort by a defined group of knowledgeable
individuals asked about progress in a number of individual elements, grouped into six
major components.

What it measures
The CI allows monitoring of a set of key variables and results on the relative strength of
governance and policy dimensions conducive to SLM mainstreaming and scale up. It is
made up of six components: i) political support, ii) policy formulation such as land
tenure, decentralization, and multi-sectoral planning, iii) organizational structure, iv)
financial resources such as public expenditure trends, v) knowledge, monitoring and
evaluation, and vi) legal and regulatory environment.

How to measure it
The CI uses key informants from a designated mix of institutions to give opinions about
central areas of SLM, including political commitment, enabling environment and
programming, compiling an index out of scores given in various areas. The CI can be
used as a baseline, diagnostic and performance monitoring tool. In Fadama III it should
be used annually. The values below were aggregated by State/FCT and theme, and then
these aggregations were again aggregated to arrive at a total score for the Composite
Index for the Enabling Environment for SLM. The scores break down into the following
categories:
     Less than 0.10: The enabling environment in aggregate undermines scaling up of SLM.
     0.10 - 0.49: The enabling environment in aggregate does not adequately support scaling up of SLM.
     0.50 ­ 0.69: The enabling environment in aggregate fairly supports scaling up of SLM.
     0.70 ­ 1.00: The enabling environment in aggregate strongly supports scaling up of SLM.

The targets for the Composite Index are as follows.

      Baseline value         Target values
      May 2010               Dec. 2010         Dec. 2011         Dec. 2012          Dec.2013
      Score: 0.323           Score: 0.323      Score: 0.400      Score: 0.500       Score: 0.600



(B1.2) Develop a monitoring tool to track adoption rates of specific SLM practices. This
indicator, "land area with SLM practices," will be tracked by this project to report on the
Country Partnership Strategy II, baseline Fadama III operation, as well as the regional
TerrAfrica SIP SLM umbrella that provides this GEF financing. Adoption rates and
hectares affected can be estimated from the on-going comprehensive baseline household


                                            69
survey being carried out for the Fadama III project, which will be repeated at mid-term
and at project close. GEF incremental support will be provided to compile the baseline
data (and follow-on surveys at mid-term and project close) to quantify adoption rates of
SLM practices in the project area nationwide and estimate land area benefitting from the
SLM practices identified table 1 in para 17 above. This indicator will be reported as a
national aggregate of local and state level figures, broken down by: agro-ecological zone,
type of SLM practice, community level and household level. The GEF support is
focusing on improving the enabling environment and, as such, aims to influence adoption
rates.
 
Due to the fact that the investments in SLM on the ground are financed by IDA and
counterparts, the GEF support cannot be held directly accountable for greater adoption
rates. Instead of attributing greater adoption to the GEF support, the contribution from the
GEF to greater adoption of SLM must be recognized and quantified to the extent
possible. For this reason, the targets above will be tracked as a project activity to help
determine what is working, where, why and how. This information will then be fed back
into the nationwide knowledge base described below. That in turn will help solidify the
merging national community of practice on integrated land and water management. This
indicator will be reported as a national aggregate of local and state level figures, broken
down by: agro-ecological zone, structural/vegetative activity, enterprise activity,
community level and household level.


(B1.3) A third monitoring tool will be developed to estimate the global and local
environmental benefits from the SLM practices tracked above. The patterns in the
adoption rates tracked using the tool described above will be used to quantify estimated
global and local environmental benefits accruing from the improved land management
practices. These estimates will be derived from co-efficient factors to be developed for
each type of land management activity in each major agro-ecology. Co-efficients will be
identified for environmental benefits such as carbon and nitrogen balances, biodiversity,
and others as data and assumptions allow, based on existing best available science
including from on-going quantitative analytical work by the Government and the World
Bank. To the extent possible, these co-efficients will be aggregated to estimate project
impact in terms of land degradation and climate risk threat reduction, as well as overall
ecosystem function and delivery of global environmental benefits as required by the
GEF. This tool will allow Project environmental and M&E officers to estimate, project,
and report on local and global environmental impacts at local, State and Federal levels.
This will provide a coarse but cost-effective operational approach to estimating impact
from adopting SLM practices.

(B1.4) A fourth monitoring tool to be refined and applied will track changes in land
productivity, land degradation, and overall ecosystem function nationwide. This tool will
use freely available satellite data to track net primary productivity to estimate overall land
degradation trends in rain-fed environments. Net primary productivity, reported in
amount of carbon, is based on the commonly known NDVI, which tracks changes in
vegetation cover. Net primary productivity is more applicable for monitoring land
degradation and basic land productivity trends because carbon is considered a proxy for
overall ecosystem performance. The project will allow the government to apply this

                                         70
       indicator tool to the Nigerian context and develop capacity to use it across land use
       related sectors. It will also help validate the estimates described above in the activity-
       based approach to estimating environmental impacts.

(B2)   SLM information system and knowledge base (US$0.14m GEF)

41.     The objective of incremental co-funding to this sub-component is to finance the
development of a comprehensive national technical knowledge base and dynamic information
system on climate-smart soil and water conservation specific to Nigeria's agro-ecological zones.
The aim is to overcome the highly fragmented nature of knowledge available in the country and
serve as a "one-stop shop" for knowledge and information on rural land and water management
practices including best-fit technologies, planning approaches, and so on. The Knowledge Base
will provide substance for the training, communications, information support, and capacity
development work described under Component A. It would aim to serve policy makers,
technical staff including extension services and private advisory service providers, as well as
community practitioners. The knowledge base will further facilitate improved investment
programming as well as learning. As part of the knowledge base, a simple geospatial tool for a
general audience will be developed and applied. This will provide timely information on climate
and land risk factors (erosion, temperature, rainfall, etc), land use, land use change, and other
parameters. As the FMARD continues to digitize its soil erosion maps, and climate assessments
get underway, this work becomes increasingly important and useful to inform Project
management and also future investment programming. These functions will be linked to the
existing project's Management Information System, as well as databases, websites, and
knowledge repositories of key agencies (ADP, etc). Lastly, capacity support will be provided to
ensure that the knowledge base is integrated into government decision making and extension
across sectors.

42.    Specific activities to be financed include:

       (B2.1) The Technical Knowledge Base includes financing under the baseline project and
       additional GEF support will focus on: (i) Developing a GIS function that includes
       mapping Project interventions and SLM Investment Framework priorities, (ii) An on-line
       and physical inventory and cross-referencing of sub-national diagnostic work and
       planning documents in the knowledge base (e.g. rural land use plans that will become
       available as project implementation progresses, SLM technology manuals, products from
       the research and extension communities, etc.). Other aspects of the Technical Knowledge
       Base are covered under the baseline IDA funding.




                                                71
                                               Annex 5: Project Costs
    NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                   KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION



                                                           Local            Foreign                           Total
Project Cost By Component and/or                            US                US                               US
Activity                                                  $million          $million                         $million
A. Capacity Building, Local                                    5.07              0.93                             6.00
Government, and Communications and
Information Support
B. Monitoring, Evaluation, and                                       0.58               0.22                              0.80
Knowledge

                         Total Project Costs1                        5.65               1.15                              6.80

1
 Identifiable taxes and duties are US$m 0.46, and the
total project cost, net of taxes, is US$ 6.34.
Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes is
93%.



                                    Cost by Project                         Cost by Disbursement
Components
                                    Year ($m)                               Category ($m)




                                                                                                                                               Community Grants
                                                                                                                             Equipment/goods
                                                                                          Operational Cost




                                                                                                              Workshops
                                                                                                              Training&
                                                                             Services




                                                                                                                                                                  TOTAL
               Title                 Yr1      Yr2       Yr3      Yr4




               A. Capacity
               Building, Local
               Government, and
               Communications
               and Information
               Support                1.50     1.01      2.39    1.10          1.52            1.52              0.62             0.49         1.85               6.00
               B. Monitoring,
               Evaluation, and
               Knowledge              0.25     0.17      0.22    0.16          0.65            0.04              0.11                                             0.80
TOTAL
COST                                  1.75     1.18      2.61    1.26          2.17            1.55              0.73             0.49         1.85               6.80




                                                                72
                          Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
     NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                    KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

1.     Project implementation period. The GEF incremental grant will be implemented from
July 2010 to December 2013.

2.      Arrangements for the GEF incremental grant: Implementation of the GEF
incremental grant is fully integrated into the overall conceptual design and the existing
implementation arrangements of the baseline Fadama III project and no additional institutional
structures or lines of accountability will be created. Essentially, the GEF incremental grant
provides an additional financing source for a number of incremental activities mainly pertaining
to capacity building, communication and awareness raising, knowledge transfer, and technology
guidance, all of which are aimed to improve the enabling environment for scaling up SLM within
the context of community-driven rural development supported by the Fadama III project. As
such, implementation arrangements for the GEF incremental grant simply build on the
implementation arrangements in place for the baseline Fadama III project with the GEF grant
providing for additional technical expertise and human resources input.

3.     Components A and B of the incremental GEF grant reinforce existing components 1 and
6 of the baseline Fadama III project, respectively. The only two sub-components that are
conceptually additional to the design of the baseline project are Component A4, National and
State Coordination on Land and Water Management, and Component A5, Community SLM
Award. However, no additional implementation or institutional structures are necessary for
implementation of either sub-component:

        Activities under sub-component A4 support the process of investment programming for
        rural land management, including coalition building and knowledge management. The
        multi-sector National SLM Steering Committee spearheads all activities under this sub-
        component with support from the National SLM Technical Committee, which serves as
        its technical level coordination body. Annual work plans for Sub-Component A4 will be
        developed by the National SLM Technical Committee, chaired by the FMARD, and
        submitted to NFCO. NFCO will hold overall implementation responsibility for this sub-
        component in terms of procurement, disbursement, and project and safeguard reporting
        responsibilities.

        Component A5 provides for a community grant mechanism additional to the baseline
        Fadama III Project's existing community-driven sub-project financing mechanism. The
        selection and grant award process for the Community SLM Award builds on existing
        project implementation structures at the community (FCAs), local government (Fadama
        Desk Officer), state (SFCO) and federal level (NFCO). Administration and coordination
        support functions will be provided by the NFCO. See further details in the detailed
        Project Description (Annex 4).

4.      All activities financed under the GEF incremental grant will be implemented through the
existing implementation structures put in place under the baseline Fadama III project.
Implementation arrangements for Fadama III are organized by level of intervention (e.g. federal
level, state level, local government level, community level) and presented in a summarized

                                              73
version further below. The following table summarizes implementation responsibilities for each
sub-components of the GEF incremental grant:

 Project Component/Sub-      Implementation responsibility
 component
 Component A: Capacity Building, Communication and Information Support
 (1) Capacity Building for   Implemented at federal/zonal level by NFCO (using the
 Community Organizations for training of trainers approach)
 Local Development Planning
 (2) Capacity Building for   Implemented at local government level with support from
 Local Governments for Rural LFD (in 62 selected LGAs only)
 Land Use Planning
 (3) Communications and      Implemented at federal level by NFCO and at State level by
 Outreach                    SFCO
 (4) National and State      Implemented at federal level by NFCO and at State level by
 Coordination on Land and    SFCO. Annual work plans are prepared by the National SLM
 Water Management            Technical Committee and submitted to NFCO.
 (5) Community SLM Award     Implemented at community level by EIGs/FCAs with support
                             from LFD. Sub Project Agreements are signed between
                             NFCO and FCAs27. Award ceremonies at zonal level will be
                             carried out by NFCO in coordination with SFCO. SFCO will
                             monitor implementation of awarded sub-projects.
 Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation, and Knowledge
 (1) Monitoring tools        Implemented at federal level by NFCO
 (2) SLM Information system  Implemented at federal level by NFCO
 and Knowledge Base

5.      Implementation overview for the baseline Fadama III project. The Fadama III Project
utilizes the existing institutional structure of the FMARD, its federal and state level coordination
offices as well as state ministries of agriculture, without creating an add-on project
implementation unit. Project management is based on a decentralized, demand-responsive
structure that grants community organizations as much decision-making authority as possible,
and promotes community ownership of and responsibility for operations and maintenance of
infrastructure investments.

6.     Overall project execution responsibility. The FMARD holds overall responsibility for
execution of the Project through the National Program for Agriculture and Food Security
(NPAFS)28. This Program is entrusted with responsibility for coordinating the implementation
of all agricultural sector projects, including those that are externally-funded. Most of the
Project's administrative, financial and implementation arrangements are decentralized and
demand-driven, and critical decisions take place at the community level within the FCAs and the

27
   Due to the limited number of community SLM awards that will be implemented in each State, Sub-Project
Agreements for the SLM Awards will be entered into between the NFCO and the FCAs and not between SFCOs and
FCAs, as is the case for SPAs under the baseline Fadama III Project (see paragraph 14 of this Annex).
28
   Under the new harmonized and consolidated arrangement for multilateral donor assisted projects, the National
Program for Agriculture and Food Security (NPAFS) of the FMARD now has responsibility to coordinate Fadama
III and all other sector operations including the GEF incremental grant to Fadama III As such, the NPAFS now
performs the Project implementation role previously carried out by the National Food Reserve Agency (NFRA).

                                                      74
various EIGs, which constitute them. Since no new coordination structure has been created
under the baseline Fadama III Project, the NPAFS delegates the functions and responsibilities of
day-to-day implementation coordination to the National Fadama Coordination Office (NFCO).
Administratively, the NFCO reports to the supervising ministry through the NPAFS.

Project Coordination and Oversight

7.      At the Federal level: As is now the case with the Fadama III operation, the NPAFS
through NFCO coordinates Project activities on behalf of FMARD. At the highest level in
FMARD, a small advisory committee called the National Fadama Technical Committee
(NFTC), which is a sub-committee of the Federal Agricultural Development Program Executive
Committee (FADPEC), is responsible for project oversight, overall policy guidance,
coordination with other projects, strategic direction and review and approval of the annual work
program and budget of NFCO. It reviews project progress, reviews and approves work plans and
budgets. The NFTC is chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the supervising ministry
(FMARD).          It comprises Permanent Secretary level representation from the
participating/relevant Federal Ministries, including Finance (FMF), Environment (FME),
Cooperative Affairs, Commerce and Industry, Women Affairs and Youth Development; the
National Planning Commission, two representatives of Federations of Farmers, a representative
of the private sector and a representative of civil society. The NFTC convenes at least every six
months or as determined by the chair to review progress in implementation and review and
approve work plans and budgets. NFCO serves as the secretariat for NFTC and is responsible
for day-to-day overall implementation coordination. In the performance of this function, the
NFCO is responsible for ensuring that Bank guidelines and procedures are followed on
procurement, disbursements, auditing and overall financial management, and that the
environmental and social guidelines are followed in both developing and implementing
components. The Federal Government is in the process of establishing Federal Project Financial
Management Division (FPFMD). NFCO's responsibilities for financial management will be
adjusted so to reflect the establishment of FPFMD in due time.

8.     NFCO is headed by a National Fadama Coordinator (NFC), assisted by a core team
comprising: Senior Technical Operations Officer (national); Senior Community Development
Officer (national); Procurement Specialist (national), Financial Officer/Accountant (national),
Environmental Officer (national, through secondment); Senior M&E Officer (national); M&E
Advisor (international, 2 years plus part time thereafter); plus the current technical support team.
NFCO staff has been recruited under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The same
team will be responsible for the implementation of the incremental GEF grant. Detailed
responsibilities of the NFCO are listed in the PIM for Fadama III.

9.      Three staff positions within the NFCO technical support team are set to expire in 2011. In
order to ensure adequate technical input, coordination support and M&E accountability beyond
2011, GEF will finance expanded technical support to NFCO for the final two years of the
project related to (i) GIS and land use mapping (GIS officer), (i) coordination of SLM activities
and technology guidance (SLM officer), and (iii) SLM M&E (Land monitoring specialist).

10.   At the State level, the State Ministry of Agriculture has delegated day-to-day
implementation and coordination of the Project to the State Fadama Coordination Office
(SFCO), while the oversight, policy, and strategic orientation functions of the Project is

                                                75
performed by the State Fadama Technical Committee (SFTC), which is a Sub-Committee of the
Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee (ADPEC). The SFTC is chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of the State Ministry of Agriculture, and meets every six months, to review
and approve work plans and budgets. The state's annual work programs and budgets are subject
to review and approval by the Bank. SFCO reports every six months to the SFTC. Membership
of the SFTC comprises the Permanent Secretary representatives of the participating line
ministries and state agencies, two representatives each of civil society and the private sector and
a representative of the NGOs operating in the state. SFCO has recruited, trained, and deployed a
team of Facilitators who, in turn, provide technical assistance and training support to beneficiary
groups in the participating communities. The Facilitators assist in the formation and awareness
raising of groups, assist communities in the preparation of LDPs and in the planning, designing
and implementation of their selected sub-projects. SFCO is responsible for supervision and
monitoring of the Facilitators, recruiting consultants to design and implement training programs
both for the Facilitators and the communities, facilitating linkages of the FCAs with other
support agencies, including local banks. The roles and responsibilities of SFCO and SFTC are
detailed in the PIM.

11.    Each SFCO has a support team, comprising: (i) State Fadama Coordinator; (ii) M&E
Officer, (iii) Community Development, Gender and Youth Officer, (iv) Rural Finance and
Livelihoods Officer, (v) Environment Officer, (vi) Training and Technical Assistance Officer,
(vii) Procurement Officer, (viii) Communications Officer and (ix) Project Accountant (on
Secondment from the State Accountant General's Office).

12.    At the Local Government level, a Local Fadama Desk (LFD) and Local Fadama
Development Committee (LFDC) have been established. The LFDC and the LFD are
responsible for local level review and approval of the LDPs and associated sub-projects. The
LFD comprises one or two civil servants with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
SFCO, seconded to the Project to play the role of a clearing house for LDPs. The LFD screens
LDPs to ensure that they meet a basic set of criteria as spelled out in the PIM and calls for
meetings of the LFDC to review and approve the plans. Decision-making on sub-project
investment proposals emanating from the communities is delegated by the state government to
the LFDC. Government representation in the LFDC is limited to one-third of the committee's
total membership in order to ensure a majority representation of the stakeholder-beneficiary
groups: the FCAs, civil society and the private sector groups. Further, at least one-third of the
total membership of the LFDC is required to consist of women. The LFDC is chaired by the
chairperson of the local government council or his/her representative and a traditional or
community leader serves as the deputy chairperson. The LFDC is also responsible for
monitoring community mobilization efforts and ensuring that the needs and priorities of fadama
resource users are reflected in the LDPs. The Project finances technical assistance and
consultant services to enhance the quality of work of the LFDC. The LFDC seeks to build
consensus on priorities and approves community proposals in the context of an indicative annual
budget determined by the state. After the committee's recommendations have been reviewed by
SFTC/SFCO to determine consistency with state development strategy and compliance with the
guidelines in the PIM, funds are disbursed to settle invoices for services delivered to the FCAs
and copies of the transactions are, thereafter, forwarded to NFCO for information and monitoring
purposes. Responsibilities of the LFD are listed in the PIM, as are those of the LFDC which also
includes membership criteria.



                                                76
13.     At the Community level, critical decisions take place within the FCAs and the various
economic interest groups (EIGs, or FUGs as they are equivalent terms), which constitute them.
The Fadama Community Associations (FCAs) are apex organizations of EIGs, which have a
common interest in deriving their livelihood from the shared natural resources of the fadama
areas. They identify, prepare, execute, supervise, operate and maintain their sub-projects,
assisted by a team of facilitators and technical specialists contracted through their SFCO or
directly, and through technical assistance and training made available by the Project.

14.     The number of FCAs in a particular Local Government Area (LGA) depends on the size
of the fadama area, the population of the area and the number of FUGs. The role of the FCAs is
to link FUGs with the Project and facilitate access to project-funded support in capacity-building,
advisory services and investment financing of their development activities. To gain such access,
FCAs must meet specific eligibility criteria and follow specific procedures, as outlined in the
PIM. Once sub-projects are approved by the Local Fadama Development Committee, FCAs can
access a share of the costs for design and implementation. Sub-project Agreements (SPAs) are
signed between the SFCO and FCAs. These agreements spell out the terms and conditions for
the funding, execution, ownership, operation and maintenance of the approved sub-projects.
Resources are then transferred directly from the state level Special Account (PFMU) to settle the
project's share of the costs of services/works provided to the various sub-projects of the
FCAs/FUGs, upon proper certification of delivery of services and/or completion of work/s.

15.     The team of facilitators and other specialists has been deployed to provide related and
necessary technical assistance and training support. In order to access project resources, an FCA
must be legally constituted as civic and non-political association, recognized by both state and
local government law. The FCA establishes a management committee consisting of: a
chairperson, secretary, treasurer, community development officer (including disadvantaged
groups), and communications/public relations officer as the core management team who are
democratically elected, and three ex-officio members from the subcommittees on procurement,
maintenance and operations of productive investments, and supervision and M&E. Consistent
with the Project's emphasis on a balanced treatment of gender, at least one-quarter of the total
membership of the FCA management committee is expected to be women. The management
structure includes rules, procedures and guidelines for performance incentives and penalties as
well as a system of checks and balances to prevent possible abuse of public trust. The FCAs
identify, prepare, implement, operate and maintain their sub-projects assisted by Facilitators and
technical specialists whom they contract either through SFCO or directly and by technical
assistance and training made available by SFCO. Disbursements to the FCAs will occur through
LDPs and SPAs as described in the PIM. The management team of the FCAs, the Facilitators,
the Desk Officers and approved consultants for the LFDC receive training on sub-project
preparation, execution, procurement, quality control, accounting and financial reporting,
governance, and O&M requirements, and responsibilities in the context of the project's CDD
approach. The responsibilities, membership and democratic procedures of the FCAs are outlined
in the PIM.

16.    Members of Fadama User Groups (FUGs, also known as Economic Interest Groups or
EIGs) are the primary beneficiaries of the Project. A user group will be defined by the members




                                                77
themselves. The size of a Fadama User Group is usually between twenty and thirty households
and as such, may comprise anywhere from about 150 to 350 individuals.29

17.     To promote partnerships in rural development, the Project follows an approach based on
contracting of professional public/private support services required for implementing demand-
driven productive and income generating sub-projects and advisory services activities. These
service providers include approved consultancies, NGOs, quasi-public agencies, and the private
sector.

18.     For a detailed description of the sub-project cycle, refer to the detailed project document
of the baseline project.

                                                             Implementation Chart

                            Review & approve annual work programs
                            & budgets of NPAFS
                                                                             NPAFS
           FEDERAL                      NFTC                                                                      GEF
                                                                            NFCO/DA

                            Review & approve annual work programs                   M&E
                            & budgets of SFDO
                                                                             ADP                                  OSAG
            STATE                    SFTC
                                                                            SFCO                              PFMU/DA

                                                                                   M&E
                             Review and approval of
                             sub-projects                                                           Contracting
                                                                                                                                   Facilitators
         LOCAL GOVT                     LFDC                                LFD                     M&E                                  Advisory
                                                                                                                                          Service
                                                                                                         Local development plans         Providers
                                                                                   Sub-
                                                                                 projects                                  contracting

         COMMUNITY                        Fadama Community Associations


             LFDC: Local Fadama Development Committee                            NPAFS: National Program for Agriculture and Food
             LFD : Local Fadama Desk                                             Security, of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and
             NFCO: National Fadama Coordination Office                           Rural Development
             NFTC: National Fadama Technical Committee                           PFMU: Project Financial Management Unit
             OSAG : Office of the State Accountant General                       DA: Designated Account
                                                                                 SFTC: State Fadama Technical Committee
                                                                                 SFCO: State Fadama Coordination Office
                                                             Dotted red lines represent flow of funds




19.     Project Implementation Manual. Overall implementation of the Project follows
detailed procedures defined in the PIM for the existing baseline Fadama III Project. An
addendum to the existing PIM has been prepared for the purpose of the incremental GEF Grant.
This addendum provides a) further details on SLM specific technology options, and b) further
details on the modalities of the GEF-financed Community SLM Award and other GEF-financed
activities.


29
     This number is derived from estimates of the size of Fadama User Associations active in the first Fadama Project.

                                                                     78
20.     Supervision. Supervision for the incremental GEF grant and the baseline Fadama III
project will be carried out as one unified exercise in line with the fully integrated nature of the
GEF-financed activities. A strategic and comprehensive Supervision Plan is outlined in Annex
6B of the baseline Fadama III project.




                                                79
           Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
    NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                   KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION



Introduction

         The financial management assessment was carried out in line with the Financial
         Management Practice Manual (1 March 2010) of the FM Sector Board. The objective
         of the assessment was to determine whether the implementing entities have
         acceptable financial management arrangements, which will ensure: (i) that funds are
         used only for the intended purposes in an efficient and economical way; (ii) the
         preparation of accurate, reliable and timely periodic financial reports; and (iii)
         safeguarding of the entities' assets. The FM arrangement in participating states is
         based on the PFMU, a robust multi-donor and multi-project FM platform, which was
         established in all states from 2002 through the joint efforts of the Bank and the
         government. The PFMUs feature strong and robust systems and controls that are not
         otherwise possible in individual ring-fenced project FM arrangements. The PFMUs
         were assessed by the Bank and found to be acceptable for the implementation of
         Bank-assisted projects. Because they are responsible for the FM arrangements of on-
         going projects, they are reviewed regularly and strengthened as necessary e.g. by way
         of training on an ongoing basis. At the federal level, NFCO is presently
         implementing a Bank-assisted project i.e. Fadama III, and has acceptable FM
         arrangements based on past supervision mission reports. Recent reviews showed that
         these arrangements are adequate for the implementation of this Project at the federal
         and state level. The residual risk for the Project, however, is assessed as moderate.
         This will be mitigated by the strong PFMU arrangement, robust FM arrangement at
         FMD/NFCO and implementation of the FM action plan (Table in para 6 below), as
         well as substantial follow up and implementation support. The Federal Government is
         in the process of establishing Federal Project Financial Management Division
         (FPFMD), which would call for some adjustments in these arrangements in future.

Country Issues

         The Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
         (PEMFAR), of 2006 showed that the Federal Government has made significant
         efforts to advance the reform of Public Financial Management (PFM) system since
         2003. There is, nevertheless, much more to be done and PFM initiatives and reforms
         are articulated in the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Program (NEEDS),
         which are supported under the CPS, specifically through the three Bank-assisted
         projects; EMCAP ­ closed December 2007, SGCBP and the ERGP.

         Major achievements so far have been: (i) the adoption of an oil-based fiscal rule that
         has greatly improved the quality of macroeconomic management; (ii) launching of
         significant steps toward increased transparency of the budget process; (iii) more
         efficient cash management; (iv) procurement reforms; (v) updating the legal
         framework for PFM; (vi) reallocation of budget resources in support of MDG-related

                                             80
                  government functions; (vii) strengthening monitoring and evaluation; and (viii)
                  introducing a more strategic longer-term focus in budget management. This has
                  clearly helped to reduce waste of public resources, particularly on the capital budget
                  and the payroll. The impact of these early measures is also evident in significantly
                  improved fiscal and broader macroeconomic outcomes.

    Risk Assessment and Mitigation

Risk                            Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures Incorporated into Project              Conditions      Residual
                                Rating   Design                                                          for             Risk
                                                                                                         Negotiation,    Rating
                                                                                                         Board or
                                                                                                         Effectiveness
Inherent Risks
1      Country Level            H         The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) that supports           None            S
       Funds may not be used             Nigeria's NEEDS aims to achieve improved transparency
       in an efficient,                  and accountability for better governance which minimize
       accountable and                   opportunity for corrupt practices. This has translated into
       transparent way.                  various projects, including the ERGP and the SCGBP at the
                                         federal and state levels, respectively, focusing on improving
                                         accountability, good governance, transparency and fighting
                                         fraud and corruption. Reforms in budgeting, FM systems,
                                         procurement and auditing are being supported.

                                         Robust financial management arrangements have been
                                         established for the project and these were designed to
                                         mitigate the Country level risk.
2      Entity Level             S        The Project will be implemented in the state by the SFCO in     None            S
       Weak institutional                the SMOA. SFTC will perform oversight functions over
       capacity to implement             Project implementation progress. At the Federal level,
       the Project components            NFCO will coordinate Project activities and NFTC will
       and to effectively                perform oversight functions, overall policy guidance,
       monitor progress and              coordination with projects, strategic direction and review
       embrace full                      and approval of the annual work plans and budget of the
       accountability for                NFCO.
       results.
                                         The robust FM arrangements at the state level include
                                         procedures to handle CDD operations, and staff of PFMU
                                         has experience in managing CDD financial flows and
                                         reporting.
3      Project Level
       Presence of prior        M        Adequate training of FM staff will be arranged as needed.       None            M
       experience and
       familiarity with the              NFCO and SFCO (formerly called NFDO and SFDO)
       implementation of                 presently perform similar functions under the Fadama III
       Bank-assisted project             Project.




                                                               81
Risk                               Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures Incorporated into Project              Conditions      Residual
                                   Rating   Design                                                          for             Risk
                                                                                                            Negotiation,    Rating
                                                                                                            Board or
                                                                                                            Effectiveness
Control Risks
4      Budgeting                   M        Budget execution to be monitored through quarterly              Quarterly       L
        Failure to properly                 unaudited Interim Financial Reporting.                          interim
       prepare comprehensive                                                                                financial
       and realistic budget                 Computerized system which includes budget modules.              reporting
       and effectively monitor                                                                              (IFR)
       budgets regularly.                                                                                   arrangements
                                                                                                            and formats
                                                                                                            have been
                                                                                                            discussed and
                                                                                                            agreed by
                                                                                                            Project
                                                                                                            Negotiations
                                                                                                            stage.

5      Accounting                  M        Robust FM arrangements at NFCO and PFMU.                        None            L
       Failure to account for
       Project funds                        Accounting and internal control procedures established and
       adequately and provide               documented in project Financial Procedures Manual (FPM).
       full supporting
       documentation.                       Qualified accountants are already in place and managing the
        Lack of accounting                  Fadama III financial matters in a satisfactory manner. Any
       capacity may                         additional accounting staff required will be recruited
       compromise the quality               competitively to boost the existing capacity.
       accounting practice
       and information/data                 Independent and effective internal audit function that is
                                            focused on risk management and help to enhance
                                            compliance with set procedures and standards.
6      Internal                    S        Internal control is strengthened by using the existing FM       None            S
       Control                              arrangement at the NFCO ­ the arrangement features strong
       Inadequate                           controls.
       documentation of
       transactions, including              Robust FPM, and staff are familiar with this FPM.
       non-retirement of
       advances.                            Independent and effective internal audit and risk
                                            management.
       Lack of mechanism or                 Adequate follow up by Bank staff on issues as well as
       management's good                    training for project staff.
       will to enforce rules
       and procedures and the               Oversight arrangements in place to ensure management
       application of                       applies rules and procedures and to enforce sanctions as
       sanctions                            needed
8      Funds Flow                  M        FMD is familiar with the preparation of withdrawal              None            M
       Delays in requesting                 applications and disbursement requirements of the Bank.
       for withdrawal of
       Grant proceeds from                  Funds flow procedures to communities are fully
       the Bank                             documented in the FPM and staff are familiar with this
       Delay in funds flow to               procedure.
       the States.
                                            Funds for approved State level activities will be disbursed
                                            through bank electronic transfer from Current draw-down
                                            account in Naira to the State's bank account, on the basis of
                                            information to be included in their funding request.
9      Financial Reporting         S        Project reporting guidelines included in FPM.                   None            S
       Accountability and                   Strict monitoring of implementing States and PFMUs will
       reporting difficulties as            be pursued
       a result of the Project's
       complexity in view of                Implementation to be monitored by NFCO.


                                                                  82
Risk                           Risk       Risk Mitigating Measures Incorporated into Project              Conditions       Residual
                               Rating     Design                                                          for              Risk
                                                                                                          Negotiation,     Rating
                                                                                                          Board or
                                                                                                          Effectiveness
     multiple implementing
     States and the need to               Use of the flexible FMS more effectively to generate reports
     account for funds                    and account for project activities.
     disbursed to them to
     meet the set reporting               FMD staff has adequate experience in Bank reporting
     deadlines for unaudited              requirements.
     IFRs. Delayed
     Finalization and
     submission of annual
     financial statements
11   Auditing                   M         Reliance on the Internal Audit Units of the NFCO to             None             M
     Delay in the                         enhance internal control system. Private sector accounting
     submission of                        firms will be hired as external auditors to carry out an
     acceptable audit                     independent audit of the project financial statements based
     reports                              on TOR acceptable to IDA.
     Overall FM Risk            S                                                                                          M
     Rating
   H-High         S-Substantial         M-Moderate         L-Low



   Strengths and Weakness

                 Strengths: The use of existing FM arrangement in the FMD/NFCO and PFMUs in all
                 the participating states is a significant FM strength in the project. Staff of the
                 FMD/NFCO and PFMU are experienced in the implementation of Bank-assisted
                 projects, they are trained in Bank fiduciary requirements, are professionally qualified
                 and the FMD/NFCO and PFMUs are equipped with computerized FM systems and
                 FPM. The NFTC will be responsible for Project oversight, overall policy guidance,
                 coordination with other projects, strategic direction and review and approval of the
                 annual work program and budget of the NFCO. SFTC will exercise similar oversight
                 functions as NFTC at the state level.

                 Weaknesses: internal control weaknesses (identified in the current audit report of
                 NFCO), includes not maintaining cash book for the DA, non-preparation of
                 reconciliation statement and over drawn project account. The DA cash book and
                 reconciliation statement are now in place.

                 The Table below indicates the actions to be taken for the project to further strengthen
                 its financial management system and address the identified weakness.

   Action Plan
       Ref
             Action                                                 Date due by                          Responsible
       No.
       1     Agreement on formats of the unaudited Interim          Completed                             NFCO with support
             Financial Report (IFR) and the Annual Financial                                             and guidance of IDA
             Statement.                                                                                  task team
       2     Expand contract of the current external auditor for    Within 90 days after                 NFCO
             Bank-assisted projects in NFCO to include GEF and      Effectiveness
             revise the audit TOR in this regard.
       3.    Agreement on Memorandum of financial services and      Completed                            SFCO/PFMUs
             service standards between PFMUs and the Agencies.


                                                               83
 Ref
       Action                                                Date due by                     Responsible
 No.
 4.    Addendum to NFCO FPM: Strengthen monitoring and       Annex available within 2        NFCO
       supervision arrangements in NFCO to ensure bank       months of effectiveness
       reconciliation and management of the cash books are
       done in accordance with the FPM.                      During project implementation

Implementing Entities

           The proposed Project, being integrated to and coordinated with the baseline Fadama
           III project, will utilize the existing institutional structure of the FMARD, its federal
           and state level coordination offices as well as state ministries of agriculture, without
           creating an add-on project implementation unit. See Annex 6.

           The Financial Management Department of the NFCO is expected to manage the
           financial arrangement of the proposed GEF Project. The existing capacity already
           established at NFCO for financial management and disbursement is adequate and will
           be used to implement the GEF program.

           The GEF incremental grant will be a fully integrated part of the baseline project in
           terms of implementation. The GEF financed activities implemented at the state level
           will not cover all 36 States of Nigeria. Instead, GEF support will focus only on those
           30 States plus the FCT that do not yet have institutional structures for cross-sectoral
           coordination and rural land use planning in place. In the six States not covered by this
           grant (Imo, Kebbi, Kwara, Kogi, Ogun, and Bauchi), state-level watershed
           committees have already been established. These state committees will operate as
           sub-committees to the National SLM Committee; consequently, these six States are
           excluded from additional GEF investments in an effort to avoid duplication of
           existing external funding support related to capacity building for mainstreaming of
           SLM at State level.

Planning and Budgeting

           Cash budget preparation will reflect financial projections and cash forecasts for the
           life of the Project (analyzed year by year) will be prepared on an annual basis. In
           addition, the, PA (in consultation with key members of the implementing unit) will
           prepare the cash budget for the coming period based on the work program and the
           procurement plan. The cash budget should include the figures for the year, analyzed
           by quarter. The cash budget for each quarter will reflect the detailed specifications for
           project activities, schedules (including procurement plan), and expenditure on project
           activities scheduled respectively for the quarter. All annual cash budgets will be sent
           to the TTL at least two months before the beginning of the project fiscal year.

           Detailed procedures for planning and budgeting are documented in the NFCO's FPM.

Internal Control and Internal Auditing

           Internal control comprises the whole systems of control, financial or otherwise,
           established by the NFCO and PFMUs in order to:

                                                        84
   (i)     carry out the project activities in an orderly and efficient manner;
   (ii)    ensure adherence to policies and procedures;
   (iii)   safeguard the assets of the project; and
   (iv)    secure the completeness and accuracy of the financial and other records.

           Project activities will also be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Unit (IAU)
           of the NFCO. The Head of Internal Audit Unit in the NFCO will report to the NFC
           and at a minimum they will (i) carry out periodic reviews of project activities,
           records, accounts and systems; (ii) ensure effectiveness of financial and accounting
           policies and procedures, as well as compliance with internal control mechanisms; (iii)
           review SOEs; (iv) physically verify purchases and assets; and (v) carry out other
           functions as stated in the approved charter.

           Financial Procedures Manual. The NFCO has a Financial Procedures Manual
           (FPM) for the Fadama III project. An addendum will be prepared to reflect issues that
           are specific to the GEF project.

Accounting

           GEF Funds will be accounted for by the Project on a cash basis, augmented with
           appropriate records and procedures to track commitments and to safeguard project
           assets. Accounting records will be maintained in dual currencies (i.e. Naira and $).

          The Chart of Accounts will facilitate the preparation of relevant monthly, quarterly
          and annual financial statements, including information on the following:
       Total project expenditures;
       Total financial contribution from each financier;
       Total expenditure on each project component/activity; and
       Analysis of total expenditure into civil works, various categories of goods, training,
       consultants and other procurement and disbursement categories.

           Annual financial statements will be prepared in accordance with relevant
           International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS).

           All accounting and control procedures are documented in the FPM and the addendum
           which will be prepared. The FPM is a living document and it will be regularly
           updated by the Project Accountant and shared with the Bank and the Government.

Financial Reporting

           Within the NFCO, the project coordinator will ensure that the project officer prepares
           unaudited Interim Financial Reports (IFR) i.e. monthly and quarterly and Annual
           Financial Statements, on a timely basis to be submitted by the FMD. In compliance
           with government reporting requirements, Monthly returns will be made to the Federal
           Accountant General for incorporation in the government accounts, as described in the



                                               85
           FPM. Quarterly and Annual reports are to be submitted respectively to: (i) NFCO,
           FMF; and (ii) The Bank ­ for the purpose of monitoring project implementation.

           Details of the Monthly Reports, Quarterly Reports and Annual Financial statements
           are documented in the FPM.

           Indicative formats for the reports are available in a Bank guideline called "Financial
           Monitoring Reports: Guidelines to Borrowers."

Auditing

           The Grant Financing Agreement will require the submission of audited Annual
           Financial Statements for the project, within six months after year end.

           A qualified, experienced and independent external auditor acceptable to the Bank that
           is appointed by NFCO will audit the project activities based on TOR acceptable to the
           Bank.

           Besides expressing an opinion on the Annual Financial Statements in compliance
           with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, the external auditor will prepare a
           Management Letter giving observations and comments on the control framework, etc,
           and provide recommendations for improvement in accounting records, systems,
           controls and compliance with financial covenants in the Grant Financing Agreement.

Financial Management Supervision Plan

           FM supervision will be consistent with risk-based guidelines applicable in the region,
           and will involve a collaborative approach within the Bank's team. The first FM
           review will be carried out within 6 months of Grant effectiveness. This detailed
           review will cover all aspects of FM, internal control systems, overall fiduciary control
           environment and tracing transactions from the bidding process to disbursement.
           Thereafter, the on-site supervision intensity will be based initially on the PAD FM
           risk rating and subsequently on the updated FM risk rating during implementation.
           Additional supervision activities will include desk review of quarterly IFRs, quarterly
           internal audit reports from FMD and IAU respectively and the annual audited
           Financial Statements and the management letters. In addition there will be timely
           follow up of issues arising, and updating the financial management rating in the
           Implementation Status Report (ISR) and the Portfolio and Risk Management System.
           The Bank project team will play a key role in monitoring the timely implementation
           of the action plan.

Fund Flows and Disbursement Arrangements

           The project funding will consist of GEF Grant financing. The Bank will disburse the
           Grant proceeds through a US$ denominated Designated Account (DA) which will be
           managed by the FMD/NFCO under the same supervisory rules as the main baseline
           IDA funded Fadama III Project. Funds for approved State level activities will be
           disbursed through bank electronic transfer from Current draw-down account in Naira

                                               86
      to the State's bank account, on the basis of information to be included in their funding
      request. The current account in Naira at SFCOs will be managed by PFMUs.

      Specific funding, banking and accounting arrangements are as follows:

   A US$ denominated DA to which the advances from GEF Grant will be lodged;
   A Current (Draw-down) Account in Naira at NFCO with the designated commercial bank
   at SFCOs to which draw-downs from the DA will be credited once or twice per month in
   respect of incurred eligible expenditures, maintaining balances on this account as close to
   zero as possible after payments.
   A Current Account in Naira with a designated commercial bank at SFCOs into which
   funds for State level activities would be credited.

      All bank accounts will be reconciled with bank statements on a monthly basis by the
      FO. A copy of each bank reconciliation statement together with a copy of the
      relevant bank statement will be reviewed monthly by the designated officials who
      will expeditiously investigate any differences arising. Detailed banking arrangements,
      including control procedures over all bank transactions (e.g., check signatories,
      transfers, etc.) will be documented in the addendum to FPM.

      Additionally, the FO will maintain a GEF Ledger Loan Account in US
      Dollars/Naira/SDR to keep track of withdrawals from the GEF Grant, The account
      will show (i) deposits made from the GEF Grant, (ii) direct payments from the GEF
      Grant proceeds by the bank, and (iii) the opening and closing balances.

      The FO will maintain a cumulative record of draw-downs from the GEF Grant that
      will be reconciled monthly with the Disbursement Summary availed by the Bank
      through the client connect link.

      The FO will be responsible for preparing and submitting to the Bank applications for
      withdrawal, as appropriate. Appropriate procedures and controls, documented in the
      FPM and the addendum to FPM to be prepared, will be instituted to ensure
      disbursements and flow funds are carried out in an efficient and effective manner.




                                           87
Funds Flow Diagram

Source of Funds
(World Bank)                           GEF GRANT




Commercial Bank Accounts
                                  DA in US Dollars




Commercial Bank
                               Current (Draw Down)
                               Account in Naira




       Federal level                                        State Level
     Expenditures (NFCO)                                  Expenditures (SFCO)




Disbursement Arrangements

          The Project will adopt the Transaction-based Disbursement Procedure (as described
          in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook). The various disbursement methods
          described in the Handbook i.e., advances, direct payment, reimbursement, and special
          commitments will all be available for use. Where the unaudited IFRs are found to be
          adequate and produced on a timely basis, there are no serious financial and
          accountability issues and if the recipient requests for conversion to report-based
          disbursements, the Bank will undertake a review of the entity's capacity to determine
          if the report-based disbursement procedure could be used for the project.

Minimum Value of Direct Withdrawal Applications

          The Minimum Value of Applications for reimbursement and direct payment is USD
          100,000.

                                             88
Reporting on Use of Grant Proceeds

         The supporting documentation for reporting eligible expenditures paid from the DA
         should be a summary report of the Statement of Expenditures (SOE) and records
         evidencing eligible expenditures for payments against contracts valued more than
         US$100,000 for individual payments of expenditure financed by Community grants
         under Category 5; more than US$ 200,000 for operating expenses or expenses on
         training and workshops; more than US$ 300,000 for payments against contracts with
         consulting firms and more than US$ 50,000 for individual consultants and a list of
         payments against contracts that are subject to the Bank's prior review. The supporting
         documentation for requests for direct payment should be records evidencing eligible
         expenditures (copies of receipt, supplier's invoices, etc). All supporting
         documentation for SOEs will be retained by the FMD/NFCO and must be made
         available for review by periodic Bank missions and internal and external auditors.

Designated Account

         The currency for the DA will be United States Dollars.

Monthly Replenishment Applications

         The DAs will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal Applications on a
         monthly basis by the FMD/NFCO and will include reconciled bank statements and
         other documents as may be required until such time as the recipient may choose to
         convert to report-based disbursement.

Disbursements by category

         Table 3 below sets out the expenditure categories and percentages to be financed out
         of the Grant proceeds. Allocations to disbursement categories have been made based
         on the project's work plans. Disbursements will be based on the work plans agreed
         annually with the Bank. With regard to Withdrawal Conditions and Withdrawal
         Period: (b) for payments to be made with respect to category (4) expenditures to any
         Participating State unless the Recipient has furnished to the World Bank evidence
         satisfactory to the World Bank that the concerned Participating State has: (i) duly
         established its FCAs in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank; and (ii)
         the Subsidiary Agreement between the Recipient and the concerned Participating
         State has been duly executed by the parties thereto in form and substance satisfactory
         to the World Bank. In order to provide maximum flexibility and disbursement based
         on implementation performance, all disbursement categories have been lumped as
         one category consisting of goods, consultancy services, SLM Award Grants,
         Operating Costs and Training in the legal agreement and will be financed at 100
         percent of eligible expenditures, inclusive of taxes, in accordance with the work plan
         and budget for the respective fiscal year.




                                             89
Table 3. Disbursement Categories
  Category                        Amount       Percentage of
                                  in US$       expenditures
                                               to be financed
  (1) Equipment/goods                488,000        100%
  (2) Consultants' services        2,169,000        100%
  (3) Training and workshops         733,000        100%
  (4) Operating costs              1,556,000        100%
  (5) SLM Award Grants             1,854,000        100%
  Total Amount                     6,800,000

Concluding Statement

             The Financial Management Assessment conclusion is that subject to the
             recommended mitigation measures and the recommended action plan being
             implemented as per the agreed time frame, the project has met the minimum FM
             requirement in accordance with OP/BP 10.02. Further, this objective will be sustained
             by ensuring that strong and robust financial management arrangements are
             maintained for the project throughout its duration. Detailed Financial Management
             reviews will also be carried out regularly, either within the regular proposed
             supervision plan or a more frequent schedule if needed, to ensure that expenditures
             incurred by the project remain eligible.




                                                 90
                            Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
    NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                   KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

A. General

1.      Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 and
revised in October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different expenditure
categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the
different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification,
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.

2.     Procurement of Goods and Small Works: Goods procured under this project would
include: SLM Training Materials, Guide Books, SLM Technology Source Books, Computers,
Mapping Software, etc. Small works would include erosion control and drainage structures, etc.
The procurement will be done using the Bank's SBD for National Competitive bidding
procedures. Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped, or
standard specification commodities for individual contracts of less than US $50,000 equivalent,
may be procured under shopping procedures as detailed in paragraph 3.5 of the "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" May, 2004, and revised in October 2006 and
May 2010; and the Guidance on Shopping Memorandum" issued by IDA, June 9, 2000.

3.      Selection of Consultants: Consultancy Services which include Advisory Services,
Technical Assistance, etc., will be available for which, consultant firms, individual consultants,
public and private research institutions and centers will compete to provide problem-solving
oriented research and technology transfer services to Fadama users. Consultant Services to be
selected under this project would include: Development of SLM training Programme: land,
Water Forest Resources, Training the Trainer Program, Communication and Information,
Support National and state Coordination on land and Water management, Knowledge
Management and Information, Investment alignment and Institutional Capacity Building,
Monitoring & Evaluation, National Technical Knowledge base, etc. These services will be
selected using Request for Expressions of Interest, short-lists, and Bank's Standard Requests for
Proposal where required by Bank's Guidelines. .Short lists of consultants for services estimated
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Research institutes, public training institutions, and NGOs may be hired to carry out specific
researches, training, distribution and monitoring services in accordance with paragraph 1.11 (b ­
d) and 3.16 of the Consultant Guidelines.

4.      Operating Costs. The operating costs shall include staff, travel expenditures and other
travel-related allowances with prior clearance from IDA; equipment rental and maintenance;
office rental and maintenance, materials and supplies; utilities and communication expenses; and

                                               91
bank charges. Operating costs financed by the Project will be procured using the implementing
agency's administrative procedures which shall be acceptable to the Bank.

5.    The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as well
as model contracts for goods procured, are presented in the Fadama III Project Implementation
Manual, Procurement Manual and the equivalent documents.

C. Procurement capacity Assessment of the Agency and Mitigating Measures for the
Procurement Risks

6.      The Fadama III project utilizes the existing institutional structure without creating an
add-on project implementation unit. An assessment of the procurement capacity of Fadama III
was carried out in accordance with procurement services policy Group Guidelines dated August
11, 1998. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and
the roles of the key actors in the project implementation. Key issues and risks concerning
procurement in the implementation of the project were discussed with the project team and
action plan to address them were put in place before its effectiveness. Since Fadama III has
qualified procurement specialists with adequate experience and skills to carry out full
implementation of the Project, fresh procurement capacity assessment is no longer required.

7.      The existing Fadama III FMARD/NPAFS/NFCO has the responsibility to implement this
incremental GEF grant, and as such has the procurement and contract administration procedures
that are considered to be generally of good quality, reliable, timely, and transparent with few
corrective actions needed by the Bank as indicated in the Procurement Action Plan below. The
Overall Risk Rating is considered Moderate.




                                              92
    Table 1: Procurement Action Plan
                           Action                          Responsibility       Due Date                 Remarks


1    Procurement Plan for the first 18 months prepared     NFCO             By Appraisal         Draft developed.
     and agreed with the Bank                                                    (done)          Finalized and agreed for
                                                                                                 Negotiation.
2    Preparation of Project Implementation Manual PIM      NFCO and the     By Negotiation       NFCO to adopt the
     including adoption of the Generic Procurement         Bank.                 (done)          Fadama III documents
     manual for Bank financed Projects in Nigeria.
3    Adoption of the Bank Standard Bidding Documents       NFCO and Bank    By Appraisal         First set of NCB bidding
     for use under NCB in lieu of lack of National                               done)           document to be prepared
     Standard Bidding Document                                                                   by NFCO and reviewed
                                                                                                 by the Bank before
                                                                                                 effectiveness.
4    Establish a central complaint                         NFCO             Before               To reduce the risk of
     database/website/internet and or hot-lines                             Effectiveness        misuse of project funds.
5    Establish proper procurement filling system and       NFCO             Before               To ensure easy retrieval
     develop procurement tracking system.                                   effectiveness        of information/data.
6    Publication of Contract awards and list of grant to   NFCO             On quarterly basis   On a continuous basis.
     beneficiaries
7    Conduct Independent Technical Audit (separate         Bank             Annually             To reduce the risk of
     from annual external financial audit                                                        misuse of project funds.



D. Procurement Plan

8.     The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation
which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the
Borrower and the Project Team at Appraisal and at Negotiation will be made available in the
National Fadama III Coordination Office, Abuja. It will also be available in the project's
database and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement
with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs
and improvements in institutional capacity.

E. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

9.      In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency has recommended two (2) supervision
missions to visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions every year. All relevant
actions required to support procurement supervision are as applicable under Fadama III.


F. Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition




                                                            93
           I. Goods and Works and non-consulting services.

           1. Prior Review Threshold: Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as
                  stated in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for Procurement:


                                    Procurement Method                     Prior Review Threshold               Comments
                     1.     ICB and LIB (Goods)                                   >=750,000                    All Contracts
                     2.     ICB (Works/Supply & Installation)                    >=5,000,000                   All Contracts
                     3.     ICB (Non-Consultant Services)                         >=750,000                    All Contracts
                     4.     Direct Contracting                                    All Values                   All Contracts
                     5.     NCB (Goods)                                            <750,000                        None
                     6.     NCB (Works)                                          <5,000,000                        None
                     7.     Shopping                                              <=50,000                         None

                   (a)       List of contract Packages which will be procured following ICB and Direct contracting.
                   (b)       ICB Contracts estimated to cost above US$750,000 (Goods) and US$5,000,000 (Works / Supply
                             & Installations) equivalent or more per Contract and all Direct Contracting will be subject to prior
                             review by the Bank.



           2.      Prequalification.­NONE-

           3. Proposed Procedures for CDD Components (as per paragraph. 3.17 of the Guidelines:
           NONE

           4.      Reference to (if any) Project Operational/Procurement Manual:
                   (i)   Project Implementation Manual;
                   (ii)  Procurement Manual

           5      Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements: NA

           6.      Procurement Packages with Methods and Time Schedule

1          2                       3              4               5        6            7              8               9

Ref. No.   Contract                Estimated      Procurement     P-Q      Domestic     Review         Expected        Comments
           (Description)           Cost USD       Method                   Preference   by Bank        Bid-Opening
                                                                           (yes/no)     (Prior /       Date
                                                                                        Post)

GEF/       Production of SLM       200,000.00     NCB                      NA           POST           9/8 /2010       List of Items to
SLM/GDS/   training materials,                                                                                         determined
01         guide books, SLM
           technology source
           books, etc.

GEF/       Computers, Mapping      260,000.00     NCB                      NA           POST           17/8/2010       List of Items to
SLM/GDS/   Software for 62                                                                                             determined
01         LGAs.
           Total                   460,000.00




                                                                      94
II. Selection of Consultants

1. Prior Review Threshold: Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as stated in
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants:


                          Selection Method                  Prior Review Threshold               Comments
        1.     QCBS (Firms)                                        >=200,000                    All Contracts
        2.     QBS                                                 >=200,000                    All Contracts
        3.     Individual Consultants (IC)                         >=50,000                     All Contracts
        4.     Single Source (SS) Firms/Individuals                All Values                   All Contracts
        5.     Training                                            All Values                   All contracts
        6.     CQS                                                  <100,000                        None
        7.     LCS                                                  <100,000                        None

2. Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost
less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

3.           Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: None

4.           Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule

     Ref No.    Description of Assignment               Estimated   Selectio   Review      Expected      Comments
                                                        Cost        n          by Bank     Proposals
                                                                    Method     (Prior or   Submission
                                                                               Post)       Date
                Development of SLM Training
                Programme: land, water forest
                resources
     FAD/GEF    Development of SLM training
     01         programme and content of training
                material services                                   IC         Prior       27/8/2010
                                                        68,000.00
                Training The Trainers Program
     FAD/GEF    6 Zonal SLM Trainers Services                       CQBS       Prior       12/ 10/2010
     02                                                 300,000.0
                                                        0
                Capacity Building Support for local
                governments: rural land use planning
                in 60 prioritized LGAs
     FAD/GEF    Trainers/Facilitators for workshops                 IC         POST        29/ 10/2010
     03                                                 16,500.00
                Communication and Information
                Support
                National Level communication
     FAD/GEF    Production of communication strategy,
     04         including contents of communication
                message for different media channels                IC         Prior       24/9//2010
                                                        60,000.00
     FAD/GEF    Annual updates of communication
     05         strategy and program                                IC         Post        22/9/2010
                                                        14,500.00
                Downstream Communication and
                Information
     FAD/GEF    Radio/Television Slots                              CQ         Post        8/10/2010
     06                                                 90,000.00


                                                          95
             FAD/GEF     Leave lets Posters print media                             CQ        Prior      1/11/2010
             07                                                       108,000.0
                                                                      0
                         Support National and state
                         coordination on land and water
                         management
             FAD/GEF     Technical assistance back-stopping SLM
             08          committee                                                  IC        Post       27/10/2010
                                                                      10,000.00
                         Knowledge Management and
                         information
             FAD/GEF     SLM Website Development and
             09          maintenance                                                IC        Post       7/11/2010
                                                                      15,000.00
                         Investment Alignment and Institutional
                         Capacity Building
             FAD/GEF     TA-Diagnostics                                             CQ        Post       15/10/2010
             010                                                      24,000.00
             FAD/GEF     Finalization of Investment Framework                       IC        Post       5/11/2010
             011                                                      24,500.00
             FAD/GEF     Dissemination and Updates of Investment
             012         Framework                                                  CQ        Post       3/11/2010
                                                                      6,000.00
                         M&E: SLM dimension
             FAD/GEF     Track Composite Index                                      IC        Post       2010/2010
             013                                                      40,000.00
             FAD/GEF     Track SLM Adoption Rates                                   IC        Post       24/9/2010
             014                                                      20,000.00
             FAD/GEF     Develop Indicator Tool for local and
             015         global environmental benefits                              CQS       Post       14/10/2010
                                                                      30,000.00
             FAD/GEF     Track Environmental benefits                               IC        Post       4/9/2010
             016                                                      40,000.00
             FAD/GEF     Develop tool for tracking vegetation                       CQ        Post       30/8/2010
             017         cover and land degradation (NDVI or          30,000.00
                         NPP)
             FAD/GEF     Track NDVI or NPP                                          IC        Post       15/9/2010
             018                                                      40,000.00
             FAD/GEF     TA-training, peer-review, advice on M&E                    IC        Post       2/10/2010
             019                                                      15,000.00
                         National Technical Knowledge Base
             FAD/GEF     Integration of geospatial tools in KB                      CQBS      Prior      23/9/2010
             020                                                      117,000.0
                                                                      0
                         Total                                        1,178,000.
                                                                      00



            III. Implementing Agency Capacity Building Activities with Time Schedule

               1.   In this section the agreed Capacity Building Activities (some items could be from CPAR
                    recommendation) are listed with time schedule: To Be Determined
S/   Dept     Description of     Partici-    Designation     Venue      Perio      Tuition   Transport   DSA        Total   Remarks
N             training           pants                                  d          fee       fare                   Cost
1    NFCO     6 Zonal SLM        36          SLM             To be      3days      ­­        ­­          ­­         8,000   To be done
              Trainers: Start                Coordinators    deter-                                                         throughout
              up and midterm                                 mined                                                          the year
              National
              workshop for
              National
              Coordination of


                                                                        96
             SLM Training
             of trainers
             program
2    NFCO     Training          12         SLM             Abuja     2 days   ­­   ­­   ­­   150,000   Period ­
             workshops on                  Coordinators                                                to be
             rural Land use                                                                            determined
             planning at the
             Zonal level
3    NFCO    National           6 Zonal    Policy          TBD       12       ­­   ­­   ­­   30,000    To be done
             Awareness          officers   Makers.                   days                              throughout
             Workshops                                                                                 the year
4    NFCO    Ratification of    6          SLM             TBD       5 days   ­­   ­­   ­­   15,000    To be done
             the                           Coordinators                                                throughout
             communication                                                                             the year
             package
5            Annual program     6          SLM             TBD       5 days   ­­   ­­   ­­   2,500     To be done
             review and                    Coordinators                                                throughout
             approval                                                                                  the year
             ratification
6    NFCO    Cross-learning     12         Zonal           Within    3 days   ­­   ­­   ­­   16,000
             and                           Coordinators    the
             communication                 communicati     State
             events                        on officers.
7    NFCO    Policy workshop    12         NPC, Policy     TBD       ­­       ­­   ­­   ­­   10,500    Period ­ to
                                           Makers                                                      be
                                                                                                       determined
8    NFCO    Capacity           18         SLM             TBD       3 days   ­­   ­­   ­­   7,000
             Building for                  Committee
             SLM Committee                 & focal
             and focal points              points
9    NFCO    IT Training        3          IT Officials.   TBD       3 days   ­­   ­­   ­­   5,000

10   NFCO    Priority setting   6          SLM             Within    Variou   ­­   ­­   ­­   30,000
             consultations                 Committee       Nigeria   s

11   NFC O   Validation of      6          SLM             Within    3 days   ­­   ­­   ­­   14,000
             Investment                    Committee       Nigeria
             Framework
12   NFCO    Capacity           6          M&E             TBD       5 days   ­­   ­­   ­­   60,000
             building on                   Officials
             M&E tools
     Total                                                                                   347,000




                                                                     97
                                      Annex 9: Incremental Cost Analysis
      NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                     KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

Project approach, Global Environment Objectives and Expected Outputs

1.      The global environment objective of the GEF incremental grant is to reinforce
capacities of stakeholders to reduce the threat of land degradation and climate risks on
ecosystems in participating communities.30

2.      Nigeria has approximately 76 million rural land users that depend directly on livestock,
rain-fed agriculture, forestry, and other rural land use for their livelihoods. These livelihoods are
severely affected by degradation of land, water and forest resources and associated effects on
land productivity. This is thought to amplify with climate change and variability. The 1990
Global Assessment of Soil Degradation31 estimated that 27 percent of Nigeria's land had
degraded sufficiently to affect productivity. Yields have indeed remained stagnant since then,
with Nigeria's agricultural growth coming predominately from conversions of forest, wetlands
and woodlands into cropland. Land degradation is further undermining ecosystem services
provided by productive lands. (See detailed analysis on the status of land degradation in Nigeria
and the importance of land productivity in Annex 1).

3.      As a signatory to the UN Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), and the
United Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC), and the Convention on Biological
Diversity (CBD), the Government of Nigeria has committed to sustainable management of land,
water, forests, and other natural resources and to safeguard ecosystem services that underpin the
livelihoods of rural land users in the country. Earlier efforts of the Government to respond to the
threats of land degradation experienced major obstacles related to fragmented institutional
coordination, inadequate capacities, overlapping mandates, and incoherent policy coupled with
gaps in resource knowledge and inadequate access of land users to quality advisory and
extension services for land use practices and techniques. (See detailed barrier analysis in Annex
1).

4.      Recognizing the importance to invest in the maintenance and improvement of land
quality as an asset for securing agricultural productivity, rural livelihoods, and non-oil economic
growth, the Government of Nigeria entered into a dialogue with the Bank to devise a more
strategic approach to address the intertwined risks related to land degradation, food security and
climate change. The Government is now actively engaging a broader coalition of line Ministries
and other partners across sectors to develop a more coordinated and harmonized approach for
financing and scaling up SLM, with technical assistance from the TerrAfrica partnership, in
which the GEF has played a key role in funding the Strategic Investment Program for SLM in
Sub-Saharan Africa (SIP). The proposed GEF incremental grant, funded out of the SIP envelope,


30
    The project development objective of the existing approved credit (with which the GEF incremental support will integrate) is
to increase the incomes of users of rural land and water resources.
31
   The Global Assessment of Human Induced Soil Degradation (GLASOD) was conducted by the International Soil Reference
and Information Centre (ISRIC) at Wageningen University, Netherlands, commissioned by UNEP. Soil scientists were asked to
categorize soils degraded over the past 45 years due to human intervention. GLASOD is one of the most widely cited analyses on
land degradation available.

                                                              98
supports the development of the country's emerging investment platform on SLM, anchored in
Nigeria's strategic investment framework for SLM.

5.      Scaling Up SLM Practice, Knowledge and Coordination will be an incremental GEF
grant focused on mainstreaming SLM in Nigeria's agricultural sector by improving the
enabling environment for SLM. The Third National Fadama Development Project (Fadama III)
is the baseline operation, which is a $450 million investment project that is increasing rural
income and reducing poverty in rural areas nationwide via community-driven smallholder
agricultural development and alternative livelihoods. This project has evolved into a large-scale
national community-driven rural development program different from the predecessor
operations, which focused on floodplain agriculture in a limited number of States.

6.      Of this $450 million, $99.1 million is considered direct co-financing to the GEF
increment. (see table below). Fadama III directly reaches 2.2 million households, or
approximately 12 million individuals, with a proven government-led implementation mechanism
with nationwide reach and credibility. Fadama III is an important opportunity for mainstreaming
SLM to secure long-term sector goals, and it is this aspect that the GEF support will focus on,
while still leveraging a small amount of community driven micro-projects that can help
strengthen a community of practice around SLM. The GEF grant will be fully integrated into
and coordinated with the existing baseline Fadama III operation. The two projects share the same
structure, institutional set-up, and implementation mechanisms. Project management costs are
co-financed entirely by the baseline operation. This approach was taken to avoid any parallel
implementation structures and to strengthen strategic mainstreaming of SLM in the government
structures at all levels.

7.      The GEF grant focuses squarely on improving the enabling environment necessary
for greater adoption of SLM practices. This approach includes building capacity and
awareness for SLM practice and policy at national, state, and local levels in order to
stimulate demand for on-the-ground investments in the baseline operation that will
improve or protect land productivity. In particular, the nearly four-year GEF incremental grant
funds the development of a knowledge support network and SLM information system,
strengthens the institutional environment for investment programming at local, State and Federal
levels, improves monitoring of land productivity and adoption of SLM practice, raises capacity
of 62 local governments to carry out land use planning, supports a communications program on
SLM, and promotes inclusion of SLM practices and alternative livelihoods strategies into the
Local Development Plans (LDPs) of at least 10 percent of communities. The GEF increment also
establishes a new innovative grant facility that reinforces awareness raising and mutual learning
via community driven micro-projects. This facility is the Community SLM Award, which
provides grants (in the form of a follow-on micro-project for those communities with proven
implementation success with a first round of projects funded under the baseline loan) for up to
185 participating and eligible communities that successfully implement an existing SLM micro-
project identified in their LDPs.

8.    Consistency with GEF programming. The Project will directly contribute to the
implementation of the GEF-4 Land Degradation Focal Area Strategy as listed below:

        SO-1: An Enabling Environment will place SLM in the mainstream of development
        policy and practice at regional, national and local levels;


                                               99
          SO-2: Mutual benefits for the global environment and local livelihoods through
          catalyzing SLM investments for large-scale impact.

          SP-1: support to sustainable agriculture and rangeland management

9.      In accordance with the GEF LD strategy, the focus is to mainstream and upscale
sustainable land management practices as part of a program of investments in rural livelihoods
by using a proven demand-driven delivery mechanism and by supporting local development
planning and capacity building for SLM across local, state and national institutional support
structures.

10.    This project incorporates the principles set out in the Strategic Program 1 of the GEF
Land Degradation Focal Area Strategy, and seeks to build a policy and institutional environment
conducive to prevention and control of land degradation and effective actions on the ground, that
protect ecosystem functions, such as carbon stocks and fresh water availability, and
simultaneously improving livelihoods of rural land users including their ability to adapt and cope
with the effects of climate change impact.

11.     Consistency with the GEF Strategic Investment Program for SLM in Sub-Saharan
Africa (SIP). The GEF financing will be drawn from the envelope secured for Sub-Saharan
Africa by the Bank-led multi-agency SIP, which is a key activity of the AU-NEPAD TerrAfrica
partnership. As such, the Project conforms to the SIP principles32 and delivers on the SIP goal,
objectives, and SIP intermediate results 2, 3, and 4, as follows:

      ·   Alignment with SIP result 1 (upscaling SLM on the ground): Financing for this is
          covered by IDA and counterpart resources under the baseline loan, and not GEF
          resources in this incremental project. GEF support will stimulate uptake of SLM by
          communities by improving the enabling environment, access to knowledge, and
          ecological monitoring of land resources.
      ·   Alignment with SIP result 2 (enabling environment): Institutions at federal, state, and
          local levels are better equipped to manage SLM programs and projects, plan and monitor
          across sectors on integrated approaches, and partner with communities to implement
          SLM.
      ·   Alignment with SIP result 3 (extension): Advisory services have greater capacity to
          promote SLM practice.
      ·   Alignment with SIP result 4 (knowledge and M&E): Better support given for
          benchmarking, and decision-making at all levels, via the development and
          implementation of an integrated knowledge management and M&E system with
          associated monitoring tools, and communication/dissemination strategy and materials.

Incremental Analysis


32
    The SIP principles are: (i) Country has demonstrated commitment to the SLM related objectives of NEPAD's environment
and agriculture programs (CAADP, EAP) and the ECOWAS Implementation Action Plan; (ii) The operation contributes to
reaching SIP results; (iii) The operation commits to using harmonized indicators and benchmarks to measure SLM scale up and
progress toward established goals at regional program level; (iv) The operation exceeds the 1:4 financial leveraging ratio for SIP
operations (GEF: non-GEF). The SIP is a key activity in the TerrAfrica joint work program, in which the Bank, Nigeria, GEF and
NEPAD actively participate.



                                                              100
12.     Baseline Scenario: The baseline loan would not adequately address the root causes and
main barriers in the enabling environment that have thus far limited the scaling up of SLM
knowledge and practices in Nigeria and dampen efforts to counter the ongoing trend of land
degradation, which is being amplified by climate variability. The development priority of the
baseline scenario is to increase the income of rural land users by delivering demand-driven
resources for livelihood activities, mostly agricultural, and by empowering local community
groups to better access extension support and advisory services aimed to increase rural
productivity. However, as a result of the single sector approaches that would be applied under
the baseline scenario, the environmental sustainability dimension of increased rural productivity
would be limited. Focus of investments would lie on income-generation and livelihood
improvements, social capital development, physical infrastructure development for productive
use, food security, and related transfer and adoption of technological know-how. Yet, there
would be insufficient stimulus to adopt a more integrated and holistic approach for investments
in sustainable agricultural, livestock, or agroforestry production systems and thus little impact in
reversing or preventing existing land degradation threats to cropland, rangeland, and woodlands.
Knowledge fragmentation would continue to limit opportunities for adoption of improved land
management practices at local level. Instead, community-driven investments would likely
concentrate on acquisition of productive assets, promotion of post-harvest technologies for value
addition, as well as support for improved market access.

13.     Without GEF support, awareness of SLM as a solution to land degradation and climate
risks would remain under the radar as they currently are now. Insufficient focus would be placed
on building an enabling environment at national, state and local levels. As 2.2 million
communities across the country prepare their Local Development Plans under the baseline
project, SLM will likely not feature as strongly as it could.

14.     Without GEF support, current fragmentation and weaknesses of knowledge and data,
policies, stakeholders and investments would continue to undermine efforts to secure sustainable
tangible and intangible ecosystem services from more integrated approaches to land and water
management or efforts to protect the soil and vegetation cover. This challenge would continue to
face communities in diverse settings and agro-ecologies nationwide, from Sahelian systems in
the Northeast to tropical forest in the Southeast. A strong community of practice on SLM would
likely not emerge without GEF participation, and chances for arresting land degradation by
scaling up SLM practice using proven community-driven approaches would recede.

15.     Although the community demand-driven design of the baseline project in principle does
not prohibit opportunities for channeling investments into land sustainability, very limited
investments would be expected, as the baseline project was not designed to remove key barriers
limiting the current enabling environment for SLM, and SLM investments can take more than
two growing seasons to realize return on investment ­ which undermines incentives for adoption
by poor smallholder farmers. As such, GEF support is needed to amplify awareness building,
knowledge fertilization, and so on described below in order to influence community demand for
SLM. As confirmed by a barrier analysis carried out during project preparation (see Annex 1 for
more details), fragmented institutional coordination, awareness, profitability, and knowledge
gaps constitute major impediments for increased uptake of SLM activities or other profitable
entrepreneurial activities that would help to alleviate land degradation impacts.




                                                101
16.     GEF Alternative Scenario: The response to threats to Nigeria's land resource has
previously fallen short of the country's expectations due to an entrenched set of barriers in the
enabling environment that prevented addressing land degradation at meaningful scale. Land
degradation challenges are expected to amplify in the face of on-going climate change and
variability (see Annex 15). This issue will be addressed under the GEF alternative by enhancing
capacities and knowledge to promote greater adoption of SLM practices than would otherwise be
the case under the baseline loan without GEF involvement.

17.     The GEF Alternative was strategically designed towards maximum mainstreaming and
leveraging impact related to the CDD investment mechanism of the baseline rural development
project. Incremental project activities of this partially blended operation respond directly to the
barriers identified and will assist the Government in improving the enabling environment for
SLM investments. Specific objectives of the GEF incremental grant include:

18.    Facilitating the establishment of a community of SLM practitioners, supported by
awareness raising, capacity building, knowledge and M&E services, and consistent with local
development planning processes (Incremental funding for Components 1 and 6).

19.    Strengthening institutions charged with management of land resources, at Federal, State,
and local government level, including by reinforcing the Nigeria's cross-sectoral coordination
platform for investment and policy on land use and management (Incremental funding for
Components 1 & 6).

20.     Incremental GEF activities are by and large geared to promote uptake and
implementation of SLM investments nationwide. In particular, the GEF incremental grant will:
promote rural land use planning, support identification of income generating options to conserve
or rehabilitate production land, mainstream SLM practices in planned investments in agricultural
production systems, finance a competitive community-driven grant facility to reward successful
implementation of communities' SLM sub-projects financed under the baseline project. This will
help raise awareness on the benefits of SLM practices, embed additional SLM activities into
Local Development Plans (a key strategy of the baseline loan), and to increase land investments
that secure public environmental goods, build a network of community practitioners that can
serve as agents of change and foster increased interest in viable SLM activities, improve land
quality monitoring at the local and national level, and enhance institutional capacities to carry
out multi-sector investment programming. As a result, incremental support will further enrich the
environmental agenda of the existing baseline project as well as strengthen the baseline loan's
long-term replicability and sustainability post-Project.

21.     At the policy and planning level, GEF support will help catalyze the emergence of a
national SLM platform over time, with state level platforms. Together this will form the nucleus
of a nationwide partnership on land that would be well positioned inside the agricultural
productivity and climate change agendas that are now receiving very high visibility domestically
and internationally. This will help to mainstream SLM and consolidate the currently fragmented
enabling environment for SLM described above. The National SLM Committee, chaired by the
agriculture ministry and involving finance, planning, environment, and met services, is liaising
downstream with all State governments to promote the process of establishing SLM Sub-
Committees at the State level. This emerging SLM platform is an excellent vehicle to advance
and finance good experience learned from within this Project and in other projects.

                                               102
Global Environmental Benefits

22.     GEF financed activities will leverage increased interest, understanding, and demand of
communities for investments in land management practices that generate dual benefits in terms
of improved livelihoods over the short-term, and improved maintenance of ecosystem functions
that from the basis of sustained land productivity over the long term. With the focus of GEF
investments on improving the enabling environment for SLM, the incremental reasoning of this
Project relies mainly on the baseline project, Nigeria's well owned flagship rural development
program, as a delivery mechanism for substantial investments in land productivity on the ground.

23.    Mainstreaming SLM practices in community-driven rural development investments
nation-wide will contribute to halt and reverse community-perceived trends of land, water, and
forest degradation. This focus on the community is critical to successfully implement and
achieve local and global benefits. The resulting global benefits will be based on improved
ecosystem functions and services including off-site benefits of a public good dimension.

24.    Global benefits will include the increase in carbon stocks in soil and vegetation as a result
of improved soil conservation and integrated fertility practices, as well as from protection and
more efficient use of biomass. Better vegetation cover in and around croplands and rangelands,
as well as avoided deforestation in areas not yet under intensive productive use, largely but not
only in the east, will further improve the infiltration capacity of the land and provide improved
fresh water availability. Global benefits will cut across the different GEF focal areas, with
improved above and below ground biodiversity in the productive landscape as a result of
improved land management and vegetative cover. Transboundary benefits will be achieved in
terms of reduced sedimentation of transboundary water courses and damage caused due to wind
erosion and sandstorms in the north.

25.     GEF support will further invest in enhancing knowledge of farmers related to adaptive
land management practices as well as diversified livelihood systems, both of which will enhance
the ability of communities to adapt to climate change and climate variability. Studies on climate
risk perceptions (see details in Annex 15) demonstrated that increased access to climate
adaptation information encouraged farmers to diversify livelihoods and to adopt SLM. On the
ground, communities perceived climate variability in terms of changing weather patterns and
land degradation incidence. For many community members, land degradation and climate risk
are the same agenda.

26.     Global environmental benefits generated will be closely intertwined with local economic
benefits depending on the type of SLM practices selected by local beneficiary communities (see
Annex 4 para 17 for the table of eligible SLM practices). Various SLM technologies have the
potential to deliver viable economic returns in terms of food, fuel, fiber, or fodder produced that
are competitive with other less sustainable production investment. The attractiveness of the
different SLM practices varies according to the agro-ecological zone, the exposure to climate
risks as well as the status of land degradation. As such, the key to successful up scaling of SLM
practices is to provide capacity building and knowledge creation that is custom-tailored to the
different agro-ecological zones and production systems of Nigeria and aligned with social
standards in the different regions. Increased incomes may not only result from improved land



                                                103
productivity, but also from added value from alternative and diversified income activities, which
further increase climate resilience.

Incremental Costs

27.     The total project cost under the baseline scenario, where only the Fadama III project
based on the IDA credit will be implemented, is US$99.10 million. The total cost under the GEF
alternative is US$105.9 million. The incremental cost under the GEF alternative is, therefore,
US$6.8 million, corresponding to GEF incremental financing of 6.42 percent of total project
cost. Although the GEF contribution in such a large-scale project is relatively meager, the
catalytic influence given to the GEF involvement to date in this operation has outsized the
financial contribution, which bodes well for implementation.




                                              104
Table 1: Incremental Cost Analysis
Component               Category      Estimated          Local Benefit           Global Benefit
                                      Expenditures
                                      (US$ million)
GEF Component A:        Baseline      87.50              Improved social         Reduced conflict amongst rural
Capacity Building,                                       capital through         land users through social
Local Government,                                        mobilization of         inclusion and community-driven
and Communication                                        communities in          principles for development of
and Information                                          socially inclusive      local development plans.
Support                                                  community
                                                         organizations.
Corresponds to                                           Increased capacity of
baseline component 1:                                    local governments to
Capacity Building,                                       respond to
Local Government,                                        community needs.
and Communication                                        Innovations in
and Information                                          community-level
Support                                                  planning and
                                                         integration of
                                                         community plans in
                                                         local government
                                                         planning.
                        With GEF      93.50              Same as above.          Improved enabling environment
                        Alternative                                              for up-scaling of SLM resulting
                                                                                 from: Increased awareness and
                                                                                 knowledge of stakeholders at
                                                                                 local, state, and federal level
                                                                                 related to the benefits of SLM in
                                                                                 terms of enhanced land
                                                                                 productivity and sustainability
                                                                                 as well as increasing adaptation
                                                                                 capacity to climate change.
                                                                                 More effective land use
                                                                                 planning capacity at the local
                                                                                 government level taking into
                                                                                 account land capability and
                                                                                 environmental sustainability
                                                                                 aspects. Strengthened capacity
                                                                                 of extension services to supply
                                                                                 communities with knowledge
                                                                                 and capacity building on SLM
                                                                                 practices relevant for the
                                                                                 different agro-ecological zones;
                                                                                 Improved mainstreaming of
                                                                                 SLM in policy dialogue and
                                                                                 investment planning.
                                                                                 More communities include SLM
                                                                                 in their own Local Development
                                                                                 Plans (LDPs), and as a result,
                                                                                 more local governments include
                                                                                 these (LDPs) in their economic
                                                                                 planning. Greater grassroots
                                                                                 control of the land agenda in
                                                                                 Nigeria.
                        Incremental   6.00
GEF Component B:        Baseline      11.60              Improved project        Improved availability of and
Monitoring and                        (includes only     management for          access to knowledge on


                                                       105
Evaluation, and                       M&E and        project                  productive and land
Knowledge                             knowledge)     implementation,          conservation practices specific
                                                     efficient                to Nigeria's agro-ecological
                                                     administration of        zones as a result of the
Corresponds to                                       project funds,           establishment of a Technical
baseline component 6:                                improved                 Knowledge Base, reinforced
Project Management,                                  coordination with        with a Management Information
Monitoring and                                       implementing             System.
Evaluation, and                                      institutions,
Knowledge                                            monitoring of results
                                                     indicators for project
                                                     progress and impact
                        With GEF      12.40          Same as above.           Estimates of global
                        Alternative                                           environmental benefits
                                                     (Note: no GEF            generated available; including
                                                     resources given          carbon sequestration below and
                                                     toward project           above ground, biomass change,
                                                     administration)          and aggregate land degradation
                                                                              and climate risk threat
                                                                              reduction.
                                                                              SLM Information system
                                                                              institutionalized in government
                                                                              planning.

                        Incremental   0.80
Total                   Baseline*     99.100         *includes $2.7m in
                                                     preparation funds
                        With GEF      105.900
                        Alternative
                        Incremental   6.800




                                                   106
                              Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
     NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                    KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

Potential Long-term Impacts

1.       This is a Category B project because, though the current program is likely to mostly
involve moderate environmental and social impacts, some of the candidate sub-projects in the
future may have significant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse,
cumulative, irreversible or unprecedented typical of Category A projects. However, during
project preparation, the exact locations and potential impacts were not known in sufficient detail.
Therefore, in December, 2009, the FGN reviewed, updated and disclosed Environmental and
Social Management Framework (ESMF) and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and Pest
Management Plan (PMP) that were prepared under Fadama III (which is the baseline Project that
the GEF grant is incrementally supporting). The RPF addresses possible involuntary physical
and economic displacement of the program's sub-projects. The ESMF outlines the process and
procedure to be followed when a project has the potential to trigger any of the World Bank
safeguard policies. The ESMF contains details of the existing environmental laws and regulatory
framework in the country; World Bank safeguard policies, analysis of environmental and social
impacts including alternatives; institutional arrangements for implementing the ESMF, capacity
building needs; and public consultation carried out during project preparation. In addition, the
ESMF contains a detailed checklist for screening all sub-projects for their potential
environmental and social impacts to determine: (i) Environmental Assessment (EA) category;
(ii) applicable World Bank environmental and social safeguards policy triggers; (iii) potential for
environmental and social impacts liability; (iv) cultural or other sensitivities; (v) relevant
stakeholders; and (vi) the nature and extent of engagement for each stakeholder category.
Finally, the ESMF contains an annex on a generic ToR for conducting an ESIA if and when
required.

2.      The overall environmental and social impacts of the project are expected to be positive.
However, since it is completely integrated with Fadama III, the incremental SLM Project has
been classified as a B Category, meaning that the potential adverse environmental and social
impacts are minor, site specific, non-cumulative, easily remediable and site-specific. The
potential environmental impacts may occur on new community infrastructure development,
small-scale irrigation, ground water extraction and horticultural and livestock production. In
addition, Fadama III has potential for intensive agriculture and could result in increased use of
pesticides and herbicides, thereby triggering the Bank's Pest Management Policy. Furthermore,
while no large scale land acquisition is envisaged, nevertheless, project activities may lead to
loss of land or prevention of access to usual means of livelihood. Thus, the Involuntary
Resettlement Policy is also triggered by the incremental SLM project.

3.     Under Fadama III, the following safeguards instruments were prepared: Environmental
and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA); Pest Management Plan (PMP); and Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF). As part of the ESIA, an Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF) was developed with a checklist for screening sub-project activities in order to identify
those sub-projects that will need to undergo a partial or full environmental and social assessment.
During the preparation of the incremental SLM project, the ESMF and PMP were reviewed,


                                               107
updated and re-disclosed countrywide in Nigeria and at World Bank InfoShop in December
2009.

Project Location and Salient Physical Characteristics Relevant to the Safeguard Analysis

4.      The incremental GEF grant is generally aligned with the national scope of the baseline
project in terms of policy input, improved multi-sector investment planning, knowledge
generation and dissemination, SLM technology guidance, and land quality monitoring. However,
GEF financed activities implemented at the state level focus on those 30 States plus the FCT that
do not yet have institutional structures for cross-sectoral coordination on SLM in place. The
other six States not covered (Imo, Kebbi, Kwara, Kogi, Ogun, and Bauchi), already have state-
level watershed committees in place, which serve as sub-committees to the National SLM
Committee that is supported with the GEF incremental project. These six States are receiving
GEF grant funding under a previous project phase and are thus excluded from additional GEF
investments.

Measures Taken by the Borrower to Address Safeguard Issues

5.       At appraisal, the exact locations and potential adverse impacts were not known in
sufficient details. The borrower reviewed, updated the ESMF, RPF and PMP that were prepared
under Fadama III. These three safeguards instruments have been and re-disclosed countrywide in
Nigeria and at World Bank InfoShop. The ESMF, RPF and PMP were prepared for the purpose
of identifying and mitigating foreseeable negative environmental and social impacts during
implementation. In particular, the ESMF was developed with a checklist to screen sub-project
activities in order to identify those sub-projects that will need to undergo a partial or full
environmental and social assessment. The RPF contains details of the principles and objectives
governing resettlement action plan preparation, review and approval of RAPs, screening for
Involuntary Resettlement, establishment of baseline and socioeconomic data, preparation of
resettlement action plans, and the likely categories of project affected persons. In addition, the
RPF also contains methods of identifying of project affected persons, including criteria and
eligibility for compensation of various categories of project-affected persons, methods to
determine the cut-off dates, institutional framework and methods of valuing affected assets in
lieu of compensation and procedures for delivery of compensation. Compensation arrangements
for those being involuntarily resettled, including possibilities for land exchange is outlined in the
RPF. In particular, the RPF also contains mechanism for resolving disputes that may arise.

Grievance Redress Mechanism

6.      The grievance redress procedure provides a mechanism to mediate conflict and reduce
lengthy litigation, which often causes delay in infrastructure projects. It will also provide people
who might have objections or concerns about their assistance a public forum to raise their
objections and, through conflict resolution, ensure issues are adequately addressed. The
grievance procedure adopted for the incremental SLM project will be simple, and administered
as far as possible at the local and State levels to facilitate access, flexible and open to various
proofs, taking into cognizance the fact that most people are illiterate, and will entail a speedy,
just and fair resolution of their grievances.

Instructional Arrangement for Implementation of Safeguard Policies


                                                108
7.     The National Fadama PMU will be responsible for the implementation of the ESMF, RPF
and PMP. Consultants will be recruited to prepare environmental management plans resettlement
Action plan as and when necessary. The National Fadama PMU has an Environmental Specialist
who is responsible and accountable for all safeguards issues of the project. At the State level,
Environmental Officers in the Fadama offices responsible for safeguards compliance. They will
be supported by consultants that will be engaged as and when needed. Additional guidance and
capacity building will be provided by the environmental and social safeguard specialists in the
World Bank team as required.

Capacity Strengthening

8.      Capacity strengthening for key participating institutions in the project will include best
practices in EIA, EMP, RAP, integrated pest management procedures, conflict resolution and
sustainable resource management.

Monitoring and Evaluation

9.      In accordance with Nigerian regulations and World Bank safeguards policies, monitoring
and periodic environmental and social auditing will take place at every institutional level of the
incremental SLM GEF project and its baseline Fadama III project. However, the monitoring will
be cost effective and the major variables, such as, wetland integrity, soil quality and water
quality and quantity as well as percentage of agricultural land under SLM will all be cost
effective and efficient monitoring approaches.




                                               109
                          Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision
     NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                    KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION


                                             Planned                          Actual
PCN review                                   02/28/2008                       01/22/2008
Initial PID to PIC                           03/09/2009                       10/27/2009
Initial ISDS to PIC                          03/09/2009                       10/27/2009
Appraisal                                    03/29/2010                       03/29/2010
Negotiations                                 05/08/2010                       06/01/2010
Board/RVP approval                           06/29/2010
Planned date of effectiveness                10/29/2010
Planned date of mid-term review              07/01/2011
Planned closing date                         12/31/2013

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:

        Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (FMAWR)33
        Federal Ministry of Environment (FME)
        Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF)
        National Planning Commission (NPC)

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                 Title                                Unit
Simeon Ehui                          Task Team Leader (original)          AFTAR
Adubi Abimbola                       Task Team Leader (current) and       AFTAR
                                     Sr. Agricultural Specialist
Stephen Danyo                        Natural Resources Management         AFTEN
                                     Specialist
Lucas Akapa                          Senior Operations Officer            AFTAR
Amos Abu                             Sr. Environmental Specialist         AFTEN
Chukwudi Okafor                      Sr. Social Development               AFTCS
                                     Specialist
Africa Olojoba                       Sr. Environmental Specialist         AFTEN
Akinrinmola Oyenuga Akinyele         Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
Sunday Acheneje                      Procurement Specialist               AFTPC
Manush Hristov                       Sr. Counsel                          LEGAF
Modupe Dayo Olorunfemi               Team Assistant                       AFCW2
Ngozi Malife                         Team Assistant                       AFCW2
Chita Oje                            Team Assistant                       AFCW2
Azra Lodi                            Sr Program Assistant                 AFTAR
Marie Claudine Fundi                 Language Program Assistant           AFTAR

Nina Doetinchem                      Consultant                           AFTEN
Chika Ezeanya                        Consultant                           AFTEN

33
  As of May 2010, the FGN is in the process of splitting the FMAWR into two entities. The new FMARD is now
considered the implementing federal ministry for this Project as well as the baseline Fadama III Project.

                                                    110
Daniel Sellen                   Peer Reviewer         AFTAR
Foluso Okunmadewa               Peer Reviewer         AFTSP

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
   1. Bank resources:
       BBGEF: 130,385.22
       BBFAO: 46,200.00
   2. Trust funds: 0
   3. Total: 176,585.22

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: US$5,000
    2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$75,000




                                                111
                            Annex 12: Documents in the Project File
      NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                     KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

Project documentation

1.    Fadama III Project Implementation Manual (2010)
2.    SLM addendum to Fadama III Project Implementation Manual (Draft April 2010)
3.    GEF Project Information Form (2008)
4.    Project Cost Tables
5.    Fadama III Supervision Plan

Safeguard documents

6.    ESMF
7.    PMP
8.    RPF
9.    Riparian Notification and Non-Objection

Studies

10. World Bank, Review of costs, benefits and public spending on land management options in
      Nigeria (2010)
11.   World Bank, Managing Land in a Changing Climate: An Operational Perspective for Sub-
      Saharan Africa (Nigeria case studies) (2010)
12.   NFCO, Community perception of weather variability and coping strategies (2009)
13.   NFCO, Description of present day climatic conditions and summary and assessment of
      projected climate changes (2009)
14.   NFCO, Communications Support for Sustainable Land Management at the Country Level
15.   NFCO, Conducting Monitoring & Evaluation and MIS (2009)
16.   NFCO, Indicator development: Household Welfare Assessment (SLM module) (2009)
17.   NFCO, Indicator development: Soil quality (2009)
18.   NFCO, Indicator development: Vegetation cover (2009)
19.   NFCO, Assessment of SLM Enabling Environment (2009)
20.   World Bank, Updated Baseline Figures and Targets for the Key Performance Indicator for
      SLM, Nigeria (2010)




                                                112
                                            Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
              NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                             KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

                                                                                                                                   Difference between
                                                                                                                                   expected and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                                  disbursements
Project ID   FY     Purpose                                       IBRD      IDA        SF        GEF         Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
P117088      2010   Fin Sec + Pub Fin Mgmt DPC                     0.00    500.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    500.99       0.00        0.00
P090644      2009   NG-Comm. Social Dev. (FY09)                    0.00    200.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    187.16      17.67        0.00
P096572      2009   NG-Fadama Development-III SIL (FY08)           0.00    250.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    226.34      32.69        0.00
P096648      2009   NG-Commercial Agriculture Development          0.00    150.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    156.27       0.85        0.00
P102119      2009   NG-HIV/AIDS Prog. Dev. II (FY09)               0.00    225.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    231.50       0.00        0.00
P106172      2009   NG-Electricity and Gas Improvement             0.00    200.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    206.87       0.00        0.00
P106280      2009   NG-Lagos Eko Secondary Education               0.00     95.00       0.00      0.00         0.00      99.14      3.33        0.00
                    (FY09)
P090135      2008   NG-Federal Roads Development                   0.00    330.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    315.42       8.87        0.00
P072644      2008   NG-Rural Access & Mobility - Ph. 1             0.00     60.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      56.31      4.71        0.00
P071340      2007   NG-Lagos Metropolitan Dev &                    0.00    200.00       0.00      0.00         0.00    178.00      45.15        0.00
                    Governance
P097921      2007   NG-Malaria Control Booster Project (07)        0.00    280.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    212.85      -4.68        0.00
P096151      2007   NG - State Edu Sector Project                  0.00     65.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      47.38     19.61       -2.05
P074132      2007   NG-S&T Educ in Post-Basic Ed (FY07)            0.00    180.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    150.46     100.93        0.00
P100122      2006   Avian Influenza Emergency ERL (FY06)           0.00     50.00       0.00      0.00         0.00       8.81      5.58       -1.68
P090104      2006   NG-Natl Energy Dev SIL (FY06)                  0.00    172.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      98.19     87.80       -0.96
P071391      2006   NG-Natl Urb Water Sec Ref SIM 2 (FY06)         0.00    200.00       0.00          0.00     0.00    151.86      64.80        0.00
P086716      2005   NG-Min Res Sustain Mgmt (FY05)                 0.00    120.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      57.21     40.47        0.00
P088150      2005   NG-Econ Reform & Govern SIL (FY05)             0.00    140.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      87.32     71.48        6.60
P074447      2005   NG-State Governance & Cp Bldg TAL              0.00     18.10       0.00      0.00         0.00      10.46     10.09       10.07
                    (FY05)
P083082      2004   MSME                                           0.00     32.00       0.00      0.00         0.00      16.91     14.45        6.59
P063622      2004   NG-Fadama SIL 2 (FY04)                         0.00    100.00       0.00          0.00     0.00       3.50     -0.88        0.00
P071075      2004   NG-Urb Water Sec Reform 1 SIL (FY04)           0.00    120.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      43.90     36.30        0.00
P074963      2003   NG-Lagos Urb Trans SIL (FY03)                  0.00    150.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      34.99    -30.68       15.98
P080295      2003   NG-Polio Eradication (FY03)                    0.00    130.40       0.00          0.00     0.00      13.86    -85.92      -19.06
P070291      2002   NG-HIV/AIDS Prog Dev (FY02)                    0.00    140.30       0.00          0.00     0.00      29.77    -36.54        5.55
P070290      2002   NG- Health System Dev. II (FY02)               0.00    217.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      86.53    -28.63      -28.19
P069901      2002   NG-Com Based Urb Dev (FY02)                    0.00    110.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      62.70     64.30       36.79
P070293      2001   NG-Privatization Supt SIL (FY01)               0.00    114.29       0.00      0.00         0.00      39.08     17.95       18.00
                                                         Total:    0.00   4,549.09      0.00          0.00     0.00    3,313.78   459.70       47.64




                                                                          113
                                                        NIGERIA
                                                 STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                 In Millions of US Dollars

                                                          Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                        IFC                                       IFC
FY Approval   Company                          Loan     Equity         Quasi   Partic.   Loan     Equity    Quasi   Partic.
1999          AEF Global Fabri                 0.32       0.00          0.00     0.00      0.32     0.00     0.00     0.00
1999          AEF Hercules                     1.30       0.00          0.00     0.00      1.30     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000          AEF Oha Motors                   0.84       0.00          0.00     0.00      0.84     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000          AEF SafetyCenter                 0.41       0.00          0.00     0.00      0.41     0.00     0.00     0.00
1995          AEF Vinfesen                     0.00       0.00          1.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     1.00     0.00
1994          Abuja Intl                       1.75       0.00          0.00     0.00      1.75     0.00     0.00     0.00
2005          Accion Nigeria                   0.00       1.89          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.57     0.00     0.00
2003          Adamac                           25.00      0.00          0.00    15.00     11.56     0.00     0.00     6.94
2000          CAPE FUND                        0.00       6.17          0.00     0.00      0.00     5.76     0.00     0.00
2001          Delta Contractor                 0.00       0.00         15.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.20     0.00
2000          Diamond Bank                     0.00       0.00          2.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     2.00     0.00
2005          Diamond Bank                     0.00       0.00         30.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    30.00     0.00
2006          Diamond Bank                     0.00       0.00         20.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000          FSB                              5.25       0.00          3.75     0.00      5.25     0.00     3.75     0.00
1992          FSDH                             0.00       0.86          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.86     0.00     0.00
2000          GTB                              6.00       0.00          0.00     0.00      6.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2004          GTB                              20.00      0.00          0.00     0.00     20.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2005          GTB                              20.00      0.00          0.00     0.00     20.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2006          GTB                              30.00      0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
              GTFP Access Bank                 33.58      0.00          0.00     0.00     33.54     0.00     0.00     0.00
2006          GTFP Access Bank                 0.00       0.00         15.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
              GTFP Diamond Bnk                 30.28      0.00          0.00     0.00     29.38     0.00     0.00     0.00
              GTFP GTB Nigeria                 20.41      0.00          0.00     0.00     20.41     0.00     0.00     0.00
              GTFP IBTC Plc.                   5.03       0.00          0.00     0.00      4.69     0.00     0.00     0.00
              GTFP Zenith                      32.18      0.00          0.00     0.00     32.18     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000          IBTC                             20.00      0.00          0.00     0.00     20.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2006          IBTC                             0.00       0.00         30.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1981          Ikeja Hotel                      0.00       0.06          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.06     0.00     0.00
1988          Ikeja Hotel                      0.00       0.01          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.01     0.00     0.00
2002          MTNN                             70.00    15.00           0.00     0.00     40.00   14.56      0.00     0.00
2002          NTEF                             20.00      0.00          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
2005          OCC                              75.00      0.00          0.00     0.00     59.12     0.00     0.00     0.00
2006          SOCKETWORKS                      0.00       0.00          2.50     0.00      0.00     0.00     1.88     0.00
2004          UPDC Hotels Ltd.                 10.62      0.00          0.00     0.00      4.82     0.00     0.00     0.00
                            Total portfolio:   427.97   23.99      119.25       15.00    311.57   21.82     38.83     6.94




                                                                          Approvals Pending Commitment



                                                                 114
FY Approval   Company                            Loan      Equity   Quasi   Partic.
2006          UBA/STB                          0.03         0.00    0.05     0.00
2005          Zenith Bank                      0.03         0.01    0.00     0.00
2007          Eleme Petrochem                  0.06         0.00    0.02     0.08
                  Total pending commitment:         0.12    0.01    0.07     0.08




                                              115
                                                                       Annex 14: Country at a Glance
        NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                       KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION


                                                     Nigeria at a glance                                                                                                 12/9/09


                                                                                                  S ub-       Lo we r-
P O V E R T Y a nd S O C IA L                                                                S a ha ra n     m iddle -
                                                                                                                             Development diamond*
                                                                             N ige ria          A f ric a    inc o m e
2008
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                               51
                                                                                 1 .2                818          3,702
                                                                                                                                           Life expectancy
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                             ,1
                                                                                 1 70              1,082          2,078
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                              177.4               885          7,692

A v e ra ge a nnua l gro wt h, 2 0 0 2 - 0 8
P o pulatio n (%)                                                                  2.4               2.5              1.2
Labo r fo rce (%)                                                                  2.6               2.8              1.6    GNI                                       Gross
                                                                                                                             per                                      primary
M o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e ( la t e s t ye a r a v a ila ble , 2 0 0 2 - 0 8 )                                         capita                                enrollment
P o verty (% o f po pulatio n belo w natio nal po verty line)                           ..             ..               ..
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                                         46             36               41
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                       48             52              68
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                              96             89              46
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                           27             27              26          Access to improved water source
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                             47             58              86
Literacy (% o f po pulatio n age 1 5+)                                                 72             62              83
Gro ss primary enro llment (% o f scho o l-age po pulatio n)                           93             98             109                   Nigeria
  M ale                                                                                99            103             121                   Lower-middle-income group
  Female                                                                               87             93             106

KE Y E C O N O M IC R A T IO S a nd LO N G - T E R M T R E N D S
                                                                  19 8 8        19 9 8            2007           2008
                                                                                                                             Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billio ns)                                                 22.8          32.1             165.9           207.1
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n/GDP                                          ..           ..                ..              ..
Expo rts o f go o ds and services/GDP                                23.1         33.5              41.0            41.6                        Trade
Gro ss do mestic savings/GDP                                            ..           ..                ..              ..
Gro ss natio nal savings/GDP                                            ..           ..                ..              ..

Current acco unt balance/GDP                                       -10.9          -9.6              18.8            20.4
Interest payments/GDP                                                6.6            1.7              0.2              0.1    Domestic                             Capital
                                                                                                                             savings                              formation
To tal debt/GDP                                                    129.6          94.2               5.2             5.4
To tal debt service/expo rts                                        29.5            1
                                                                                   1 .8               1.7            0.6
P resent value o f debt/GDP                                            ..             ..             4.8             4.8
P resent value o f debt/expo rts                                       ..             ..              1
                                                                                                    1 .7            10.4
                                                                                                                                            Indebtedness
                                               19 8 8 - 9 8 19 9 8 - 0 8        2007              2008       2 0 0 8 - 12
(average annual gro wth)
GDP                                                    3.3            6.0          6.4               6.0             4.4                   Nigeria
GDP per capita                                         0.7            3.5          4.0               3.6             1.6                   Lower-middle-income group
Expo rts o f go o ds and services                        ..             ..           ..                ..              ..



S T R UC T UR E o f t he E C O N O M Y
                                                                  19 8 8        19 9 8            2007           2008        Growth of capital and GDP (%)
(% o f GDP )
                                                                                                                             12
A griculture                                                            ..              ..          32.7                ..
                                                                                                                             9
Industry                                                                ..              ..          40.7                ..
                                                                                                                             6
  M anufacturing                                                        ..              ..             ..               ..
                                                                                                                             3
Services                                                                ..              ..          26.6                ..
                                                                                                                             0
Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                            ..            ..                ..              ..
                                                                                                                                      03       04      05    06         07    08
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                         ..            ..                ..              ..                        GCF              GDP
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                   22.0          38.1              25.9            24.7


                                                              19 8 8 - 9 8 19 9 8 - 0 8           2007           2008
(average annual gro wth)
A griculture                                                            ..         7.0               7.4                ..
Industry                                                                ..         3.8              -2.9                ..
  M anufacturing                                                        ..           ..                ..               ..
Services                                                                ..        14.4              12.9                ..

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                             ..              ..              ..              ..
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                          ..              ..              ..              ..
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                              ..              ..              ..              ..
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                                       ..              ..              ..              ..


No te: 2008 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was pro duced fro m the Develo pment Eco no mics LDB database.
* The diamo nds sho w fo ur key indicato rs in the co untry (in bo ld) co mpared with its inco me-gro up average. If data are missing, the diamo nd will




                                                                                                             116
P R IC E S a nd G O V E R N M E N T F IN A N C E
                                                   19 8 8    19 9 8     2007        2008
                                                                                              Inflation (%)
D o m e s t ic pric e s
                                                                                              35
(% change)                                                                                    30
Co nsumer prices                                    54.5        10.3        5.5         1
                                                                                       1 .6   25
Implicit GDP deflato r                              21.4        -5.6        4.8        1 .0
                                                                                        1     20
                                                                                              15
G o v e rnm e nt f ina nc e                                                                   10
                                                                                               5
(% o f GDP , includes current grants)                                                          0
Current revenue                                         ..      16.2      28.4        32.8                   03         04             05        06        07        08
Current budget balance                                  ..       5.8       8.4          1
                                                                                       1 .6
                                                                                                                            GDP deflator                    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 ..      -9.3       -1.1        3.6

TRADE
                                                   19 8 8    19 9 8     2007        2008
                                                                                              Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millio ns)
To tal expo rts (fo b)                             7,069       0,1 4
                                                              1 1       66,605          1
                                                                                    84,1 7    100,000
  Fuel                                             6,456       9,218    58,164     74,304
                                                                                               80,000
  Liquified natural gas                                ..          ..    6,844      7,709
  M anufactures                                       28         140         ..          ..    60,000
To tal impo rts (cif)                              6,393     10,269     30,440     36,885      40,000
  Fo o d                                             505       1,397         ..          ..
                                                                                               20,000
  Fuel and energy                                     64         123         ..          ..
  Capital go o ds                                      ..          ..        ..          ..         0

Expo rt price index (2000=100)                        58         45        253         344                   02        03         04        05        06    07       08

Impo rt price index (2000=100)                        96         1
                                                                 12        138          161                         Exports                  Imports
Terms o f trade (2000=1 00)                           61         40        183         21 4

B A LA N C E o f P A Y M E N T S
                                                   19 8 8    19 9 8     2007        2008
                                                                                              Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millio ns)
Expo rts o f go o ds and services                  7,403     10,972     68,061     86,077     30
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                  7,052     12,671     43,039        ,1
                                                                                    51 05     25
Reso urce balance                                    351     -1,700     25,022     34,972     20
                                                                                              15
Net inco me                                        -2,904    -2,892       1
                                                                        -1 ,853    -12,005    10
Net current transfers                                  63       ,51
                                                               1 6       1 6
                                                                          8,01      19,295     5
Current acco unt balance                           -2,490    -3,075      31 85
                                                                           ,1      42,262      0
                                                                                               -5       02        03         04         05       06        07        08
Financing items (net)                               2,159     2,960     -22,150    -40,594    -10
Changes in net reserves                               331        1
                                                                 15      -9,035      -1,667

M emo :
Reserves including go ld (US$ millio ns)                ..        ..    51,333     77,484
Co nversio n rate (DEC, lo cal/US$ )                  6.4      88.0      125.8        1
                                                                                     1 8.5

E X T E R N A L D E B T a nd R E S O UR C E F LO WS
                                                  19 8 8     19 9 8     2007        2008
                                                                                              Composition of 2008 debt (US$ mill.)
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed            29,621     30,294      8,696        1
                                                                                     1 ,221
  IB RD                                            2,728      2,278        381          211
                                                                                                                                  A: 211
  IDA                                                 31        564      1,929       2,243
                                                                                                                                                       B: 2,243
To tal debt service                                 2,210     1,332        ,1
                                                                          1 87         609
 IB RD                                               429        467         201        205
 IDA                                                     1        4          35         37
                                                                                                                                                                  D: 535
Co mpo sitio n o f net reso urce flo ws
 Official grants                                      36          33      1,321        843                                                                      E: 323
 Official credito rs                                  72       -473         150         63                                                                 F: 453
                                                                                                    G: 7,456
 P rivate credito rs                                 150         -25      -31 2        -37
 Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)           379       1,051     6,032       3,636
 P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                    0           0     1,447      -4,684

Wo rld B ank pro gram
 Co mmitments                                        793          0        685         887
 Disbursements                                       244        221        335         353     A - IBRD                                                E - Bilateral
 P rincipal repayments                                196       314        196         209     B - IDA            D - Other multilateral               F - Private
                                                                                               C - IMF                                                 G - Short-term
 Net flo ws                                            49       -93        139         144
 Interest payments                                   235        157         41          34
 Net transfers                                       -187      -250         99          1
                                                                                        10


No te: This table was pro duced fro m the Develo pment Eco no mics LDB database.                                                                                12/9/09




                                                                        117
          Annex 15: Climate Risk Perceptions and Adaptation among Nigerian Farming
                                         Communities
         NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                        KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

"We in this community know that the climate is becoming drier every year. There seems to be
gradual desert encroachment in our community. The land is becoming emptier, and even the
grasses we used to have in the past for our livestock have started disappearing. Two years ago
the River Jama'are overflowed its bank, destroying our fruits and vegetables estimated at 100
hectares."

     -    Tahiru Mohammed, FGD discussant Jama'are Community, Bauchi state

A. Background
1.      Micro-level assessment of perception and adaptation to risks associated with climate
change has become an important issue in the designing of projects and programmes that affect
farmers especially in developing countries. The ability to perceive and detect climate and
environmental change by African farmers may determine their adaptive response abilities. The
assessment of farm-level adoption of adaptation strategies is important to provide information
that can be used to formulate policies that enhance adaptation as a tool for managing a variety of
risks associated with climate change in agriculture (IFPRI, 2006). The IPCC (2001) defines
adaptive capacity as the ability of a system to adapt to climate change (including climate
variability and extremes), to moderate potentials damages, to take advantage of opportunities, or
to cope with the consequences. The goal of an adaptation measure should be to increase capacity
of a system to survive external shocks or change.

2.      Nigeria aims to invest in the maintenance or improvement of land quality ­ land being
the key asset of the rural poor and, therefore, critical for securing farm productivity, livelihoods,
income, and national economic growth. However, this may not be effectively achieved without a
good knowledge of community level perceptions and adaptation strategies to risks associated
with climatic change.

3.      To improve investment programming and sustain the gains made by rural development,
agricultural, and NRM investment, there is need to distill and compare the current level of
perception and adaptation strategies of a range of smallholder farmers with the actual situation
based on data and information from meteorological stations. Also there is need to assess the
constraints limiting adoption of adaptive measures. Issues relating to perception, adaptation and
constraints to adoption of adaptation strategies need to be made clearer through this type of
micro-level study. A better understanding of farmers' perceptions regarding long-term climatic
changes, current adaptation measures and their determinants is important for investment in
smallholder agriculture in Nigeria, and related policy development. Each of Nigeria's four
climatic regions has some environmental and ecological problems peculiar to it, which tend to
expose the farming households to different levels of risks. While much of the Northern region
(Sahel and some parts of Sudan Savanna) are exposed to desertification and flooding, the
Southern parts (Rainforest and Guinea Savanna) are faced with flooding, sheet sand gully
erosion. It is expected that each zone of the country, with different agricultural and land
management systems experience sand respond to climate change risk differently.


                                                118
4.     The assessment below outlines the objective of the assessment, the methodology used,
the main findings in terms of the degree of awareness of climate change and how it corresponds
with rainfall and temperature data, on-going measures taken to reduce climate risk, factors
influencing the uptake of these measures, and lastly, recommendations for how land management
investment may support farmers in reducing risk.

5.          The full assessment is available from the Project file.

B. Objective
6.     The overall objective of this analysis is to assess community and household perception of
environmental and climatic conditions and changes in a range of agro-ecological zones in
Nigeria, and to document on-going adaptation strategies that can be inserted into investment
operations. The specific objectives are to carry out a representative assessment of the following:

     (i)       Perception of prevalent environmental and climatic conditions;
     (ii)      Adaptation strategies used to reduce vulnerability to environmental and climatic
               hazards;
     (iii)     Constraints to building resilience to climatic and environmental shocks.

C. Methodology
7.      This assessment made use of primary data collected from farm households of six
communities that will benefit from the Fadama III operation. The six communities were selected
based on a multi-stage sampling method from the six geopolitical/agro-ecological zones of the
country. Fifty (50) farm household heads were randomly selected from each community, giving
a total of three hundred (300) farmers who were the respondents. Data and information were
collected using interview schedules and focus group discussion (FGD) guide. Data were
analyzed using descriptive statistics and cross-tabulations with X2 outputs. Further analyses were
done using econometric models- Maximum Likelihood Binary Probit model and Factor Analysis.


D. Key findings
8.          Key findings on farmers' perceptions of local climate change:
     ·       Farmers are quite aware that the country in general is getting warmer and drier with
            increased frequency of drought and changes in timing of rains. Farmers from the northern
            region (Sahel and Sudan Savanna) seem to be more aware of this than farmers from the
            southern region (Guinea Savanna and Rain Forest).

     ·      Farmers' perceptions of climate change in this assessment correspond to the scientific
            evidence of change provided by meteorological monitoring stations. Records from
            weather stations as analyzed tend to support communities' perception on climate changes
            in temperature and precipitation across the country. It found that temperature has been on
            the increase and precipitation on the decrease in most parts of the country.




                                                    119
      ·   Most of the farmers across the regions/zones indicated that what guides them in weather
          forecasting include mainly the previous years' experience, as well as the first rain and the
          intensity of early rains.

      ·   The ability to perceive climate change and correctly interpret the change is age,
          education, and farming experience dependent, but not dependent on family size.
          Information source/guidance to the farmers has a functional dependence on farmers'
          ability to perceive climate change.

      ·   Based on probit analysis, age, level of education, farming experience and the agricultural
          zone of the farmer positively and significantly influence perception of climate change.
          Also a positive and significant relationship exists between perception of change in
          climate and engagement of farmers into non-farm activities. This has confirmed the
          earlier finding by cross-tabulation that age, education and farming experience influence
          perception of climate change.

      ·   Farm size, farming system and cropping system practiced by the farmers influence
          farmers' sensitivity to and ability to perceive climate change.

      ·   The type of crop grown has a functional dependence on the ability to time the rainy
          season, but farmers' concept of when rain is considered good or bad enough does not
          depend on types of crop planted.

9.        Key findings on farmers' adaptive responses to climate change include:
      ·   Climate risk reducing options being used by farmers across the country include praying
          to God and performing some religious rituals, which is more prevalent with farmers in
          the northern regions; and switching to non-farm businesses which is more adopted in the
          southern region. Many farmers across the country also adapt by growing a number of
          crops on the same plot of land or in different plots to mitigate the effects of total crop
          failure, as crops are affected differently by climatic events. Also mixed farming is
          practiced by many farmers across the country as an adaptive measure.

      ·   Many farmers from the northern zones acquire more farming resources such as breeding
          and work animals in years of good climate conditions and harvest, while most of those
          from the southern zones invest more in non-farming businesses against any year of crop
          failure.

      ·   Looking for alternative sources of water for agriculture is a major long-term adaptive
          measure which up to 70 percent of the farmers from across the zones claimed they
          usually adopt at the community levels.



10.       Key findings on factors affecting farmers' selection of climate risk reducing measures:
·     Cross-tabulations with X2 outputs reveal that there is no functional dependence between
      education and choice of adaptive response to effects of climate change. However, choice of
      adaptive response and what guides households to plan and implement adaptive options to

                                                  120
       climate change are mostly dependent on farming experience, but also age, farm size, secure
       land tenure, and gender.

·      Information and inputs: The more access to information the farmers have, the greater the
       tendency to want to adopt improved SLM practices or diversify livelihoods. For example,
       farmers who perceived the climate as becoming drier tend to source alternative sources of
       water. Lack of information and poor access to farm resources and inputs is considered the
       main constraint to greater adoption of climate risk reducing measures.

·      The quality of the information influences the choice of adaptive response by farmers, with
       most information coming from radio, television and word of mouth. Access to extension is
       poor and formal farmer-to-farmer learning events are uncommon. This choice in turn is
       affected by the degree to which farmers perceive actual climate change.

·      Farming and cropping systems adopted by farmers influence their adaptive strategy, that is,
       there is a functional dependence between adaptive strategy adopted and the farming and
       cropping system practiced by the farmers.

·      The land tenure system of farming households influenced their long-term adaptation strategy.
       Farmers who have more secure land access (by inheritance and/or purchase) tend to adopt
       long-term risk reducing strategies.

·      Of those farmers who perceived climate risk, nearly all identified constraints to better adapt
       their farms and livelihoods. These constraints are summarized in table 1 below.

Table 1. Perceived Constraints to Adaptation by Zone (% of respondents)
                                 North     North    North      South    South            South
 Constraints                     West      East     Central West        East             South
    Lack of information on climate
                                          50   36         78         72        88        64
    Lack of knowledge of adaptive
    responses                             72   88         48         46        76        48
    Poor knowledge of adaptive
    responses application                 72   80         40         52        80        56
    Limited access to credit              36   58         56         40        78        52
    Limited access to improved
    technologies                          50   66         40         44        96        48
    Poor access to farm inputs/ markets   42   44         52         62        60        68
    Poor access to irrigation water       66   34         64         52        86        50
    Lack of community action on
    environment                           62   76         28         28        40        44
    Lack of access to farm insurance      80   64         76         62        32        50
    Others                                10   2          8          8         2         12
    No barriers to adaptation             26   4          22         32        24        18



E. Recommendations for land management investments to help farmers reduce climate risk
11.        Improve knowledge and information access



                                                    121
      ·   Any rural development, agriculture, NRM or land management investment operation
          should build in awareness creation on mitigation of and especially adaptation to climate
          change and variability, including meteorological and agronomic information. This is true
          especially for the Southern parts of the country where farmers' perception of the nature of
          climate change seem to be weak. Farmers across Nigeria need to know that they should
          adjust their management practices to ensure that they make efficient use of the limited
          rainfall and water resources for food production and other needs.

      ·   Fairly educated and experienced farmers should be used as model farmers to complement
          the efforts of extension agents in information dissemination concerning climate change
          and adaptation options.

      ·   Female headed households and indeed all females associated with Fadama III project
          need to be especially encouraged, since women play pivotal roles in smallholder
          agriculture. Therefore they need to be protected against adverse consequences of climate
          change, through bridging the gaps in access to farm resources and inputs; and effective
          sensitization.

12.       Improve economic and policy incentives

      ·   Farmers should diversify production and off-farm income. Mixed farming and mixed
          cropping and integrated livestock systems can cushion the effects of adverse climate
          change, as well as potentially lead to greater soil fertility, vegetation cover, rainfall
          infiltration, and agro-biodiversity. All of these are important for climate resilience.

      ·   An effective land reform programme aimed at making land more accessible to users in a
          free market system. This will enhance long-term adoption measures that enhance land
          productivity and resilience as buffers against climate change and variability.

      ·   Farmers are interested in and can benefit from greater access to insurance products to
          reduce climate change risks. Bottlenecks which the farmers identified as hindrances to
          taking a policy such as lack of access to the insurance facility. The Nigerian Agricultural
          Insurance Company (NAIC) could simplify methods of policy taking and to take their
          services to the LGAs benefiting from Fadama III.

      ·   Famers will have more risk reducing measures at their disposal if they enjoy better
          market access (input and output) and farm credit access.

      ·   The FGN and States have the responsibility to adjust policies and direct resources and
          attention to enhance the adaptive capacity of agricultural systems to climate change. Such
          policy measures could include incentivize uptake of drought resistant crop technologies,
          improving climate information forecasting and dissemination, and promoting farm-level
          adaptation measures such as soil and water conservation practices and agroforestry.

13.       Identify locally appropriate land management practices and other adaptive strategies




                                                 122
        Famers are already practicing a range of adaptive land management practices and other
        actions. See table 2 below.

        Since community perceptions seem to generally agree with weather station records across
        the country concerning temperature increase and decrease in precipitation, locally
        suitable soil and water conservation practices should be extended on a wider scale. This
        will significantly help farmers cope with changing rainfall and temperature regimes, as
        well as erosion, which is common place in various forms throughout Nigeria.

        Farmers who use alternative sources of water such as irrigation technologies should be
        especially encouraged through adequate training in crop management practices associated
        with irrigation. The existing irrigation systems, mostly in northern Nigeria, should be
        revitalized in the context of integrated water management, and the water equitably made
        available, while there should be efforts at developing small irrigation systems and even
        tube-wells for all-year farming in the southern zones of Nigeria.

        Agro-forestry ­ that is, use of trees in farming systems -- in line with the different
        geographical zones should be included. This is one of the most viable options for
        sustainable land management (SLM), and one of the biggest insurance farmers could get
        against environmental degradation occasioned by climate change. Above all it has the
        potential of poverty reduction and building farmers' resilience against adverse effects of
        climate change. However, uptake to date is slow given the relatively long payback period
        for co-benefits to emerge.

Table 2. On-going adaptive responses to adverse climate change by zone (% of respondents)
 Adaptation Strategy             North    North       North      South    South      South
                                 West     East        Central    West     East       South
 Resign to fate                  6        -           10         2        8          6
 Pray more to God/Rituals        64       92          40         44       2          42
 Fall on previous year harvest   10       7           14         14       2          24
 Use last year saved income      20       4           10         2        4          20
 Engage in non-farm activity     38       24          50         14       84         38
 Seek government help            32       2           26         26       16         4
 Cultivate mixed crops           24       16          18         64       76         80
 Crop diversification            34       90          56         8        22         16
 Shifting cultivation            4        6           34         14       12         34
 Produce both crop and           90       90          74         78       84         66
 livestock
 Use other source of water       66       58          30         48       8          2
 (Irrigation)
 Soil conservation technique     72       67          2          8        2          2
 Harvesting storm water          22       10          -          10       2          2




                                               123
 Annex 16: Sustainable Land Management in Nigeria: Towards a Multi-sector Investment
                                    Program
      NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                     KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

1.       Since late 2007, the Government of Nigeria has been engaged in the development of a
more programmatic and participatory approach to scale up investment in sustainable land and
water management to address land degradation and climate risks, agricultural productivity, food
security, and to secure ecosystem services and protect or drive non-oil economic growth. As a
first step, a National Sustainable Land Management (SLM) Technical Committee was founded to
kick start the process of building a nationwide alliance on land, given the many sectors and
stakeholders involved in investment and policy decisions. The Committee includes the FMAWR
(Chair and CAADP focal point), FME, FMF, NPC, NIMET, NEPAD and other environmental
regulatory bodies such as NESREA. More recently, a SLM Steering Committee was proposed at
the cabinet level to offer higher-level support to cross-sectoral coordination and ensure inclusion
of SLM in rural land related policy and investment dialogue.

2.      The SLM committee is pursuing a more coordinated and harmonized programming
among different institutional, thematic, and geographic boundaries, and among development
partners. This effort is meant to improve the coherence of the various land based investments,
avoid antagonistic approaches or duplication, and to consolidate and put into better use the
isolated knowledge and evidence that exists throughout the country. If successful, this approach
would change business as usual. It would allow for greater scope and impact of interventions, a
longer timeframe for sequencing investment planning, and a more strategic use of domestic and
international financial resources.

3.      This programmatic approach is consistent with the Paris Declaration on Aid
Effectiveness that the Federal Government of Nigeria adopted in March 200534, and with the
approach advocated by CAADP and the TerrAfrica partnership, which Nigeria has supported
since inception in 200435 and 2005, respectively.

4.      The National SLM Technical Committee is serving as the technical level coordination
body for the Nigeria's SLM Steering Committee. The technical committee, chaired by the
FMAWR, currently meets once a month and since its inception in 2007 has been involved in
sensitization of key government agencies, state governments, civil society, and donors in

34
   According to the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness (2005), a programmatic or Program-Based Approach (PBA) is
characterized by the following features: (a) leadership by the host country or organization; (b) a single comprehensive program
and budget framework; (c) a formalized process for donor coordination and harmonization of donor procedures for reporting,
budgeting, financial management and procurement; and (d) efforts to increase the use of local systems for program design and
implementation, financial management, monitoring and evaluation.
35
   TerrAfrica was launched in 2005 to support and strengthen the implementation of the United Nations Convention to Combat
Desertification (UNCCD), the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Program (CAADP) and the New Partnership for
Africa's Development (NEPAD) Action Plan of the Environment in SSA. TerrAfrica is a multi-stakeholder partnership aiming at
creating the enabling conditions to scale-up SLM in Africa through country-led program based approaches. The approach focuses
on reinforcing country owned efforts to harmonize, align, and coordinate efforts by (i) developing multi-stakeholder alliances; (ii)
improving knowledge management; and (iii) improving multi-sector investment programming. See www.terrafrica.org.




                                                               124
strategically aligning stakeholders. One key task of the Committee is the development of
Nigeria's Strategic Investment Framework for SLM, to be delivered in two or three phases,
starting with Cross River State. This task is embedded within the Committee's work program
which is organized into three types of activities: (i) coalition building, (ii) knowledge and
information support, and (iii) multi-sector investment programming. These are summarized
sequentially below.

(I)    Coalition building:

5.      The National SLM Technical Committee is building a coalition of stakeholders in land
management across government agencies and donors. The National SLM Technical Committee
is involved in inter-ministerial, multi-stakeholder collaboration to better mainstream the SLM
agenda in national development planning, with the objective to align and scale up SLM
activities. The SLM Steering Committee acts at the higher level to ensure inclusion of SLM in
rural land related policy and investment dialogue.

State Consultations

6.      The National SLM Technical committee has carried out sensitization among all State
governments and other actors with the aim of expanding the alliance and rooting it in evidence
based investment and policy oriented dialogues. The State meetings are providing a platform for
identifying strengths, weaknesses, and opportunities concerning: (1) extent of land degradation
and climate risks to development priorities and natural assets (including crop, range, and forest
systems); (2) parameters for a program-based approach to investment, and (3) practical activities
such as coalition building activities, analytical activities, initial investment identification, and
participation in the preparation of the Nigeria SLM Investment Framework.

7.      The National SLM Technical Committee has so far visited all states in the country
resulting in the following examples of first-cut land degradation priorities identified by State
governments and stakeholders. These will be further discussed as the national coalition matures:

       Abia State:             Soil erosion, downstream sedimentation, deforestation
       Anambra State:          Soil erosion, intensive land use, deforestation
       Sokoto State:           Desert encroachment, siltation
       Zamfara State:          Desert encroachment, siltation
       Osun State :            Massive deforestation
       Oyo State:              Deforestation, unregulated timber logging, expand watershed
                               management
       Cross River State:      Deforestation, illegal timber logging, expand watershed
                               management
       Kebbi State:            Deforestation, siltation, expand grazing reserves, bush burning,
                               unregulated timber logging

8.      Building a coalition in a complex country like Nigeria takes time. In 2007 and again in
2008, the Government organized and funded two successful workshops (2007, 2008), using
purely domestic financing. These workshops started the national dialogue to build a national
coalition to improve investment programming. The workshops were attended by farmer



                                                125
organizations, producer organizations, NGOs, different government ministries at the federal and
state levels, and international partners.

(II) Knowledge and Information Support:

9.     The National SLM Technical Committee is involved in World Bank sponsored analytical
work on land being carried out by IFPRI and ICRISAT including a (i) Cost-Benefit Analysis and
Public Expenditure Review in Cross River, Sokoto and Niger states, with a sister study in Mali,
and (ii) a regional study on climate/land dynamics with Nigeria's north as a case study.
Upcoming work includes a climate risk analysis, which will build on the preparation study on
community climate risk perceptions that was delivered as part of Fadama III GEF preparation.

10.     In addition, an SLM/agriculture knowledge base and information system and technical
training program will be developed with support from the Fadama III GEF operation.

(III) Investment Alignment:

11.     The objective of this work is to increase the effectiveness, capability, and responsiveness
of government and other stakeholders to improve multi-sector investment programming on rural
land management. As such, this sub-component includes a suite of activities that leverage the
government's on-going actions in this area, to help build the "public sphere," including the
media, civil society, academia, and producer and community associations. This approach will
lead to a change in the way that projects and programs are selected, designed and deliberated. It
advocates for greater participation, transparency and accountability into all stages of the cycle.
This is seen as a major vehicle for methodically upscaling SLM practices such as conservation
agriculture, land use planning, erosion control, forest protection, and small irrigation in order to
improve development outcomes.

12.      As mentioned above, the National SLM Technical Committee is developing Nigeria's
Strategic Investment Framework for SLM, in line with the President's 7 Point Agenda, Vision
2020, NEEDS, SEEDS, and various sector strategies. The SLM Investment Framework is a suite
of prioritized on-going, pipeline, and future investments, and is accompanied by other
institutional support such as knowledge platforms, information systems, and associated capacity
development. This effort is linked into the national policy dialogue. The investment framework
contributes to a more focused and investment-centered articulation by the country of its land
agenda, in particular climate change, watershed management, and forest, as well as the effort to
build agriculture investment plans that encompass other important areas including food security,
irrigation, research, and land tenure.




                                                126
                    Annex 17: Summary of Fadama III Project Components

       NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
                      KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION

1.      The design of Fadama III is organized in six inter-linked components as summarized
below. GEF incremental funding will support specific incremental activities in Components 1
and 6 of Fadama III. Project costs are presented in Table 1 below including all financing sources
for the integrated project: IDA, counterpart, plus GEF.

Table 1: Project Cost by Component (in US$ million)
                                                                                           Baseline
                                                                                            (IDA,
     Component                               Title                               GEF     counterpart)   Total
                 Capacity Building, Local Government, and Communications
         1
                 and Information Support                                          6.00          87.50     93.50
         2
                 Small-Scale Community-Owned Infrastructure                       0.00          73.57     73.57
         3
                 Advisory Services and Input Services                             0.00          39.50     39.50
                 Support to the ADPs, Sponsored Research, and On-Farm
         4
                 Demonstration                                                    0.00          37.43     37.43
         5
                 Asset Acquisition for Individual Economic Interest Groups        0.00        150.00     150.00
         6
                 Project Administration, Monitoring, Evaluation, and Knowledge    0.80          59.30     60.10

                 Preparation Funds                                                               2.70      2.70

 TOTAL COST                                                                       6.80        450.00     456.80


2.      Component 1: Capacity Building, Communications and Information Support
(US$87.50m). Component 1 of Fadama III will build the underlying capacity and awareness at
federal, state, and local government level that is necessary to support innovations in local
development planning and provide the support structures for delivery of community demand-
driven investments in rural development (as supported under Component 2 and 5). Communities
will be mobilized to form viable Economic Interest Groups (EIGs) that are organized into a
collection of registered community associations nationwide. Training will empower communities
to prepare socially more inclusive Local Development Plans (LDPs) and to identify, design,
implement and maintain productive assets. To minimize land use conflicts, the capacity of
communities to manage natural resources will be strengthened and mechanisms for conflict
resolution between competing land users will put in place. Capacities of Local Governments will
be strengthened to better respond to the needs of their communities and to improve decision-
making capabilities, local development planning, and governance.


3.       GEF support to component 1 is described in component A of the GEF project.


4.      Component 2: Small-Scale Community-Owned Infrastructure (US$73.57m).
Component 2 of the baseline project will provide sub-project funding to registered community
associations for community-owned public goods infrastructure investments that have been
prioritized in Local Development Plans. Investments may include construction and/or

                                                        127
rehabilitation of community infrastructure (feeder roads, access roads, small bridges, storage
facilities, etc.), construction of cross-community infrastructure (stock routes, pastures and
watering points, etc.), and small watershed management infrastructure (water harvesting
structures, land stabilization structures, etc.).


5.      Component 3: Advisory Services and Input Support (US$39.50m). Component 3 of
the baseline project will support provision of advisory services to individual economic interest
groups (EIGs) with the aim to guide and improve production, processing, marketing and supply
chain management of economic activities in which the EIGs are engaged. In addition, users of
rural land and water resources will be supported with matching grant funding to purchase farm
inputs, such as seeds, seedlings, fertilizer, feed, and agro-chemicals. For sustainability purposes,
beneficiaries will be further assisted in engaging in saving schemes and in accessing credit.


6.      Component 4: Support to Agricultural Development Programs (ADPs), Sponsored
Research and On-farm Demonstration (US$37.43m). Component 4 of the baseline project
will foster a shift in public extension services moving away from a traditional supply-driven
nature to adopt an approach responsive to community demands. Model extension programs
customized for meeting the requirements of communities will be established with contributory
funds from federal, state and local governments and will be implemented through Nigeria's
Agricultural Development Programs (ADPs).


7.     Component 5: Asset Acquisition for Individual Economic Interest Groups
(US$150.00m). Component 5 of the baseline project will provide a matching grant facility to
finance assets for income-generating activities of the rural poor through economic interest groups
(EIGs) formed by community members. The matching grant will serve as seed money to
empower poor farmers and others to form viable EIGs to select and acquire capital assets, which
they require to undertake a wide range of small-scale income-generating activities including both
farm and non-farm.


8.      Component 6: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Knowledge
US$59.30m ($47.2 million of which is for Project Management) . Component 6 of the baseline
project will finance the cost of project management and coordination, monitoring and impact
evaluation, as well as the cost of screening and ensuring EMP compliance. The expected
outcome is an efficiently delivered project meeting high standards of transparency and
participation.


9.    GEF support to component 6 is described in component B of the GEF project. None of
the GEF support finances project administration or safeguards.




                                                128
                      Annex 18: Maps

NIGERIA: SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE,
               KNOWLEDGE, AND COORDINATION




                           129
