                                    Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                        Report No: ICR00003067




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                  (TF-97185-NG)

                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                                   FROM THE

               GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                     TO THE

                       FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                      FOR A

SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE, KNOWLEDGE,
                      AND COORDINATION

                                   June 28, 2014




Agriculture, Irrigation and Rural Development (AFTA1)
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCW2
Africa Region




                                         i
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2014)

             Currency Unit = Nigerian Naira (NGN)
                 1.00 Naira = US$ 0.0061
                  US$ 1.00 = 163.95

                     FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1 – December 31


          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADPs    Agricultural Development Programs
BCA     Benefit-Cost Analysis
CDD     Community Driven Development
CEMP    Critical Ecosystem Management Project
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
EIGs    Economic Interest Groups
ERR     Economic Rate of Returns
ESMP    Environment and Social Management Plan
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization
FCAs    Fadama Community Associations
FCT     Federal Capital Territory
FGN     Federal Government of Nigeria
FM      Financial Management
FMARD   Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FUEF    Fadama User Equity Fund
GEF     Global Environmental Facility
GEO     Global Environmental Objective
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IFPRI   International Food Policy Research Institute
IIRR    International Institute of Rural Reconstruction
ISR     Implementation Status Report
LDP     Local Development Plan
LFDO    Local Fadama Desk Office
LG      Local Government
LGAs    Local Government Areas
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR     Medium Term Review
NDVI    Normalized Difference Vegetation Index
NEEDS   National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy
NFCO    National Fadama Coordination Office

                            ii
NG      Nigeria
NGN     Nigerian Naira
NPC     National Project Coordinator
NPP     Net Primary Productivity
NPV     Net Present Value
OP/BP   Operational Policy/Bank Procedure
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMP     Pest Management Plan
RMF     Results Monitoring Framework
RPF     Resettlement Policy Framework
SFCOs   State Fadama Coordination Offices
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
SLM     Sustainable Land Management
TA      Technical Assistance
UN      United Nations
USD     United States Dollar




               Vice President:     Makhtar Diop
             Country Director:     Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly
              Sector Manager:      Martien Van Nieuwkoop
         Project Team Leader:      Abimbola Adubi
            ICR Team Leader:       Sheu Salau




                             iii
                           NIGERIA
SCALING UP SUSTAINABLE LAND MANAGEMENT PRACTICE, KNOWLEDGE,
                      AND COORDINATION




                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet




    A. Basic Information………………………………………………………………………….v
    B. Key Dates………………………………………………………………………………….v
    C. Ratings Summary………………………………………………………………………….v
    D. Sector and Theme Codes………………………………………………………………….vi
    E. Bank Staff…………………………………………………………………………………vi
    F. Results Framework Analysis……………………………………………………………...vii
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs…………………………………………………..ix
    H. Restructuring ……………………………………………………………………………..ix
    I. Disbursement Graph……………………………………………………………………….x

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design................................. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................... 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................. 19
  6. Lessons Learned..................................................................................................... 21
  Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2: Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 30
  Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 35
  Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 37
  Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
  Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 40
  Annex 8: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 42
  Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
  MAP……………………………………………………………………………….......45



                                                           iv
 A. Basic Information
                                                                         Nigeria Scaling Up
                                                                         Sustainable Land
Country:                Nigeria                 Project Name:            Management Practice,
                                                                         Knowledge, and
                                                                         Coordination
Project ID:             P109737                 L/C/TF Number(s):        TF-97185
ICR Date:               06/28/2014              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         FEDERAL REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                         OF NIGERIA
Original Total
                        USD 6.80M               Disbursed Amount:        USD 6.80M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 6.80M
Environmental Category: B                       Global Focal Area: L
Implementing Agencies:
 Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/22/2008     Effectiveness:             12/16/2010       11/25/2010
Appraisal:            03/29/2010     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/08/2010     Mid-term Review:           07/16/2012       01/26/2012
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2013       12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:


                                                v
Overall Bank                                        Overall Borrower
                                Satisfactory                                       Satisfactory
Performance:                                        Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                          No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                    34                  34
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       14                  14
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry               52                  52


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                         12                  12
Land administration and management                                     83                  83
Water resource management                                               5                  5

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:           Makhtar Diop                           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:         Marie Francoise Marie-Nelly            Onno Ruhl
Sector Manager:           Martien Van Nieuwkoop                  Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:      Abimbola Adubi                         Abimbola Adubi
ICR Team Leader:          Sheu Salau
ICR Primary Author:       Sheu Salau




                                                   vi
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The project development and global environment objective is to improve the enabling
environment for scaling up sustainable land management in participating communities.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
 The objective was not revised.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from      Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values         Target Years
                   Stakeholder perception of the enabling environment for sustainable land
Indicator 1 :
                   management
Value
(quantitative or   3.23                      6.00                              5.66
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/14/2010                 12/31/2013                      05/07/2014
Comments           This is a composite index tracking the change in SLM enabling conditions. It was
(incl. %           monitored through independent surveys of a random sample of stakeholders (see
achievement)       Annex 2 for details of methodology). The target was largely achieved (94%).
Indicator 2 :      Direct project beneficiaries (% female) (cumulative)
Value
                                             259,000                           288,600
(quantitative or   0
                                             (40% female)                      (42% female)
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/14/2010                12/31/2013                        05/07/2014
Comments
(incl. %           The target was achieved and surpassed (111% achievement).
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                   Participating communities that have selected SLM sub-projects for inclusion in
Indicator 1 :
                   their Local Development Plans (LDPs) (cumulative %)
Value
                                                                           26% (= 1,924
(quantitative or 0                        10% (= 740 FCAs)
                                                                           FCAs)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/14/2010                  12/31/2013                       05/07/2014
Comments
                 The target was achieved and surpassed (260% achievement).
(incl. %

                                                    vii
achievement)
                   Community Associations reached through training and/or communications on
Indicator 2 :
                   SLM practices/planning (cumulative #)
Value
(quantitative or   0                         7400                                5185
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/14/2010                  12/31/2013                         05/07/2014
Comments           The target was 70% achieved because the IDA-funded parent project (Fadama
(incl. %           III) was not able to reach its targeted number of FCAs (i.e. 7400) during the
achievement)       implementation period of the incremental GEF project.
                   People reached through training and/or communications on SLM practice /
Indicator 3 :
                   planning (cumulative #)
Value
(quantitative or   0                         4714                                3672
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/14/2010                12/31/2013                           05/07/2014
Comments           The target was 78% achieved overall. Details for specific target groups (i.e.
(incl. %           community facilitators; extension & advisory staff; local, state & federal
achievement)       government staff) are provided in Annex 2.
Indicator 4 :      Local Government Areas trained in rural land use planning (cumulative #)
Value
(quantitative or   0                         62                                  62
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/14/2010                12/31/2013                          05/07/2014
Comments
(incl. %           The target was fully achieved (100%).
achievement)
                   State Governments participating in development of Nigeria's multi-sector SLM
Indicator 5 :
                   Investment Framework (cumulative #)
Value
(quantitative or 0                         20                                30
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/14/2010                   12/31/2013                        05/07/2014
Comments
(incl. %         The target was achieved and exceeded (150% achievement).
achievement)
                 Improved monitoring tools developed to track adoption of SLM practices and
Indicator 6 :
                 changes in land productivity (cumulative #)
Value
(quantitative or 0                         2                                 2
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/14/2010                   12/31/2013                        05/07/2014
Comments         The target was fully achieved (100%). Tools to track adoption of SLM practices
(incl. %         and changes in land productivity were developed. In addition, a tool for
achievement) estimating local and global benefits of SLM practices was developed.
Indicator 7 : Key stakeholders trained in applying the monitoring tools (cumulative #)
Value
                 0                         75                                90
(quantitative or

                                                  viii
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/14/2010                  12/31/2013                        05/07/2014
Comments           The target was fully achieved and exceeded (120%). Training in applying the
(incl. %           tools was carried out for a wide range of key stakeholders (see Annex 2 for
achievement)       details)
Indicator 8 :      SLM Information System developed (Yes/No)
Value
(quantitative or   0                          No                              Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/14/2010                 12/31/2013                      05/07/2014
Comments           The target was fully achieved (100%). An SLM website was developed and the
(incl. %           IDA-financed parent project (Fadama III) project has an SLM information
achievement)       system in place for continued monitoring.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
No.                               GEO                        IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     05/11/2011             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/30/2011             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.89
  3     05/28/2012             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.76
  4     09/27/2012             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.51
  5     05/16/2013             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.86
  6     11/19/2013             Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     6.31


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                   ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1.       Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1      Context at Appraisal

1.      Poverty, agriculture and the environment. At appraisal it was estimated that
about seventy-six million rural Nigerians, mostly poor, derived their livelihoods from
fragile and degraded lands. Natural capital which includes forests, protected areas, and
agricultural lands were, and continue to be, a major source of income for the rural poor.
However, unsustainable land-use practices especially in Nigeria’s floodplains and other
areas prone to land degradation, over-exploitation of natural resources, and on-going
climate variability all posed threats to maintaining the productivity of this natural capital.
While there was an awareness of the detrimental impact of land degradation on
agricultural productivity and rural livelihoods, there was very little knowledge, and
consequently low adoption, of appropriate Sustainable Land Management (SLM)
practices to address the issue.

2.      Although Nigeria was making progress on macroeconomic and sector reforms 1,
poverty remained a major development challenge that would require strong growth in
non-oil sectors to overcome. Recognizing the negative impact of land degradation on
growth in non-oil sectors, the Government prioritized the fight against land degradation
in its strategic documents. These documents (for example the 7 point agenda and the
Vision 2020) make explicit reference to the importance of sustainable agricultural
practices for increased food security, reduced poverty, and better livelihoods
opportunities in rural areas. The Government’s decision to prioritize investments for
sustainable agricultural productivity growth stemmed from the knowledge that land
degradation slows down agricultural growth, increases poverty and vulnerability, and
contributes to social tensions as well as threatens biodiversity.

3.      SLM enabling environment. Diagnostic studies conducted during project
preparation 2 , identified unpredictable policy and ineffective regulatory environment,
limited institutional and technical capacities, insufficient budgetary allocation, and
isolated knowledge environments as enabling environment constraints to the adoption of
SLM practices. Limited institutional and systemic capacities frequently undermined


1
  Nigeria was among the first countries to adopt and implement the Extractive Industries Transparency
Initiative (EITI) to improve governance of the oil and gas sector. In the financial sector, banking
supervision was strengthened and the banking system was consolidated. The telecommunications sector
was deregulated and the power sector was unbundled into companies for generation, transmission, and
distribution. Privatization and concessioning were initiated in the ports, steel, mining, and petrochemicals
sectors. The pension system was replaced with a fully-funded contribution system.
2
  Some of the background studies used were conducted by IFPRI and ICRISAT and include a (i) Cost-
Benefit Analysis and Public Expenditure Review in Cross River, Sokoto and Niger States of SLM, with a
sister study in Mali, and (ii) a regional study on climate/land dynamics with Nigeria’s north as a case study.
A preparation study on community climate risk perceptions in Nigeria and other studies, including Global
Assessment of Human Induced Soil Degradation (GLASOD), were conducted by ISRIC for UNEP.

                                                      1
government’s commitment to instituting sustainable land management. Often time,
government institutions and ministries lacked personnel with technical or policy skills. At
the same time, inter-institutional and intersectoral coordination and cooperation was
lacking as was local-level empowerment. Further, extension services—the conduit
through which farmers source advisory services at local levels—often suffered from
budgetary cuts and low capacities for disseminating SLM technologies. At the local level,
the stakeholders’ knowledge of sustainable land management practices relied on time-
tested traditional techniques and knowledge that had been transferred through generations
and which was not necessarily viable anymore.

4.      National Fadama Development Project. At the time of appraisal, the Fadama
project, which was hosting the project, had evolved into a large scale national
community-driven rural development program and provided an important opportunity for
mainstreaming SLM to secure long-term sector goals. Fadama II had a standalone GEF
project, the Critical Ecosystem Management Project (CEMP), in the form of grant
financing, using a demand-driven approach for two types of alternative land use practices,
including: (i) land use changes in critical areas, such as riverbanks, flood-prone areas,
groundwater recharge areas, and forest or natural habitats of significant biodiversity value
and (ii) sustainable agricultural practices in Fadama areas added to IDA-supported Local
Development Plans (LDPs). Under Fadama III, a GEF financing was mobilized in an
amount of US$ 6.8 million to follow up on successful experiences and lessons from the
CEMP.

5.      Alignment with strategies of Nigeria and the World Bank. The Nigeria Country
Partnership Strategy3 (CPS) was designed to support government priorities as outlined in
Nigeria’s Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS) and Vision
2020. The CPS which covered FY10-13 focuses on three main strategic areas of support
to transform and diversify Nigeria’s economy, including: (i) improving governance; (ii)
maintaining non-oil growth; and (iii) promoting human development, identified by the
Government and reaffirmed in the stakeholder consultations. The CPS pillar on
improving non-oil growth aimed to contribute to the expansion of productive land area
under more sustainable management and integration of climate smart activities that
improve the efficiency of land and water resources in rural communities. The Third
National Fadama Development Project (Fadama III) which sought to increase the income
of land and water resource users in a sustainable manner and this Global Environment
Fund (GEF) project implemented under the Fadama III, which focused on improving the
enabling environment for up scaling up sustainable land management practices, directly
contributed to the second pillar of the CPS.




3
    Report No. 32412-NG


                                             2
1.2         Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators

6.     The development objective of the project was to improve the enabling
environment for scaling up sustainable land management in participating communities.

7.          The key performance indicators were:

      i.       Stakeholder perception of the enabling environment for sustainable land
               management 4 .
      ii.      Number of direct project beneficiaries.

1.3    Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

8.          The GEO was not formally revised.

1.4         Main Beneficiaries

9.     The primary beneficiaries included rural community groups exposed to the
socioeconomic and environmental impacts of land degradation in 30 states plus FCT
(estimated at about 259,000 individuals total). The secondary beneficiaries included
public and private organizations at Federal, State and Local Government levels with
responsibilities critical to the up scaling of climate-smart land management practices.

1.5         Original Components (as approved)

10.     The GEF project comprised two components, including: (A) Capacity building,
communications and information support; and (B) Monitoring, evaluation and knowledge.
Each component of the GEF grant was incremental to the respective ‘baseline’ Fadama
III project’s components.




4
   This indicator was measured by a composite index using data collected from a simple, low-cost,
perception-based survey. The survey covered the following areas: (i) political support, (ii) policy
formulation such as land tenure, decentralization, and multi-sectoral planning, (iii) organizational structure,
(iv) financial resources such as public expenditure trends, (v) knowledge, monitoring and evaluation, and
(vi) legal and regulatory environment. The survey was administered independently three times during the
life of the project to a sample size of 600 individuals from institutions at state, local government and
communities. The institutions from where sample were drawn for endline tracking survey include: ADPs,
Fadama offices, FCAs, FUGs, National Conservation Agency, Watershed management committees, SLM
committees, River Basin Authorities, FEPA, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of
Water Resources, Ministry for Local Government, Ministry of Land and Physical Planning, Forestry
Division/Wild life, Universities/Tertiary, CBOs, NGOs, religious/community leaders, CGIARs, NARS,
International Organizations.


                                                      3
Component A: Capacity Building, Communications and Information Support
(US$6.0m, integrated with component 1 of the Fadama III Project)

11.      This component had five sub-components, including:
(a)      Capacity building support for community organizations for local
development planning (US$1.29 million): This component aimed at strengthening
local development processes by raising capacity of stakeholders to include land
degradation and climate risks in rural development planning, particularly as affecting
smallholder agricultural production. The target audience included policy makers at
national level, technical staff at State level (including SFCO Environmental Officers and
Local Government Desk officers for Fadama III), development planners and project
facilitators at local government level, extension services in ADPs and land users in
Economic Interest Group (EIG) and FCAs. This sub-component funded SLM training
program and production of training materials, customized for awareness and capacity
building needs of the different stakeholders.

(b)    Capacity building of local governments for rural land use planning (US$1.51
million): This sub-component sought to build capacity of Local Governments (LGs) to
carry out rural land use planning that guarantees improved productivity and long term
sustainability of natural capital such as land, water and forest resources. Key
interventions include support for participatory spatial planning (and natural asset
mapping) and provision of GIS equipment to 62 LGs (2 per State and FCT).

(c)     Communications and advocacy (US$0.81million): This sub component was
intended to raise level of awareness of stakeholders at all level about SLM and mobilize
land users to invest in SLM practices. The sub component employed sensitization and
advocacy campaign to complement the capacity building programs. The sensitization and
advocacy campaign financed by the GEF incremental support to Fadama III was carried
out through the use of media channels such as radio and TV, newspapers and other print
media.

(d)     National and State coordination on land and water management
(US$0.48million ): This sub-component sought to improve the effectiveness, capability,
transparency, accountability and responsiveness of governments and other stakeholder to
convene evidence and knowledge with a view to improving investment programming on
climate-smart land and water management practices. In addition, the sub component was
to help mainstream SLM practice and policy into States and national development
planning. This sub component financed activities that strengthened the National SLM
community to build a nationwide coalition on climate smart land and water management
including: (i) preparation of SLM Investment Framework; (ii) workshops at policy and
technical levels; (establishment of secretariat functions; (iii) communications; (iv)
establishment of State SLM Committees, and (v) training on diagnostics and monitoring.

(e)     Community SLM Award (US$1.91million): This sub-component sought to
incentivize participating FCAs that successfully implemented SLM sub-projects that have
been financed under component 2 of Fadama III operation and that delivered public good.


                                           4
Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation and Knowledge (US$0.80million financed by
GEF, integrated with component 6 of the Fadama III project)

12.      This component was intended to enhance the SLM dimensions of the M&E
activities and MIS financed under the baseline project. This incremental funding covered
development and application of:

(a)      monitoring tools to (i) track (through perception-based surveys) progress towards
the project’s global environment objective of whether the enabling conditions for SLM
(institutions, financing, and knowledge) were improving or deteriorating; (ii) track (by
project officers and governments) adoption rates and spatial coverage of specific SLM
practices; (iii) estimating the global and local environmental benefits from SLM practices
tracked above; and (iv) lastly, tracking of changes in land productivity, land degradation,
and overall ecosystem function.

(b)     an SLM information system and knowledge base that financed the development
of a comprehensive knowledge base and dynamic information system on climate-smart
soil and water conservation, and capacity support to ensure that the knowledge base was
integrated into government decision making and extension services across sectors.

1.6         Revised Components

13.         There were no revisions to the Project components during project life.

1.7         Other significant changes

14.     There were no significant changes. The grant agreement was signed in November
2010 and the project became effective in May 2011 after a slight delay due to political
situation in late 2010 and early 2011. In addition, towards the end of project preparation
an indicator was introduced that measured “additional land areas under SLM”.

2.          Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1         Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

15.    The analysis of the country situation and strategic sector issues (i.e. negative
impact of land degradation on the economy and livelihood of the poor including barriers
to its adoption), as conducted as part of project preparation, was rigorous. This
background analysis was sound because it reflects country conditions and was evidence
based benefiting from a number of empirical analytics 5.

16.     Project preparation also took into account priorities of all relevant national
strategies of the government notably: (i) the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper called


5
    Ibid3

                                                5
National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS); (ii) 7 point
agenda; (iii) Vision 2020; (iv) Nigeria’s UN National Action Programme to Combat
Desertification, Climate Change and Biodiversity; and (v) CAADP and NEPAD Action
Plan on the Environment in SSA. Overall, the preparation of the project was inclusive
and broadly participatory 6 because of the extensive consultations with relevant
stakeholders to ensure buy-in that were necessary for overall project success.

17.      The project design reflected lessons learnt from the predecessor projects (Fadama
II, its associated GEF and other SLM projects) and complemented the achievement of
CEMP on SLM practices. For instance, it was noted that GEF stand-alone investments
had limited success. This finding necessitated the integration of the GEF incremental
grant into the mainstream of Fadama III implementation structures. Leveraging on
already existing implementation arrangement and capacity in the preparation and
implementation of the project helped save cost instead of maintaining two PIUs and
narrowed initial project learning curves. In addition, it was noted that supply driven SLM
interventions in the past have had limited participation and relevance, hence, the need to
leverage of demand-driven, participatory approaches as adopted under the FADAMA
parent project that provided opportunities for communities to take charge of their local
development planning on the most pressing and relevant needs. Equally, the introduction
of SLM awards, aimed at rewarding concrete results achieved, was another good element
of project design that altered the incentive structures for the communities to adopt SLM
practices and as well engendered behavioral change manifested in the number of
communities that included SLM in their LDP 7.

18.     The GEO was clear and its design was simple with only two components and a
limited number of measurable indicators that adequately captured the objectives.
However, project scope and a number of the targets were somewhat ambitious, thereby
raising some questions about the realism of project design 8. The use of the Composite
Index developed under the SIP was cost effective and provided opportunities to discern
contribution of the different elements of the enabling environment for the scale of SLM


6
  The project preparation team included staff from the then Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources ( with the following departments; Federal department of Agriculture, land Management Division,
department of policy Analysis, Monitoring ad Inspectorate , conservation agriculture, rural development),
Federal Ministry of Environment, The National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement
Agency(NESREA), Nigeria Meterological Agency(NIMET), Faculties from universities( University of Ife,
Ibadan, Ilorin, Bayero University, Ebonyi state university), Fadama III National, state and zonal
coordination offices, State ministries of agriculture, environment and natural resources, National Food
Reserve Agency(now defunt), CSOs, and Federal Ministry of Finance.

7
  About 1,924 FCAs from among the 5185 FCAs sensitized and trained selected SLM sub-projects for
inclusion in their Local Development Plans with the support and intervention of the project. Without the
project, these groups would have continued their traditional practices and would have further degraded the
land.

8
  The coverage of the project was rather ambitious even though the intention was to maximize advantage of
using implementation structures of a large scale national project to develop resilient production system.

                                                     6
practices. In addition, the preparation of the Cross River State model SLM Investment
Framework during preparation and financed from Fadama and TerrAfrica resources
provided another advantage in that it improved project readiness for implementation. This
was the model used by the National SLM committee and the project to coordinate and
help articulate investment priorities for climate smart activities in the national and state
agriculture investment plans.

19.     Risks were appropriately identified and adequate mitigation measures put in place.
Some of the risks identified included financial sustainability, and community demand for
SLM. The financial sustainability was of concern at preparation because the SLM
subprojects were derived from the LDPs of the parent project which were demand-driven.
However, the identification of SLM practices with positive net returns and inclusion of
the Fadama User Equity Fund (FUEF) as a sustainability measure mitigated this risk as at
least 10 percent of the replacement value of the common assets of an EIG was saved
annually. In addition, there were plans for marketing and assessment of profitability for
income generating sub-projects while sub-projects for community-owned, small-scale
infrastructure, and EIG owned assets included an Operations and Maintenance plan.
During preparation, the awareness of suitable SLM practices for the various agro-
ecological zones in the country was low. And because the parent project, FADAMA-III,
was a CDD operation, it was envisaged that communities might demand SLM sub-
projects that might not be suited to their specific agro-ecology situation. To guard
against choosing wrong SLM practices, the task team prepared a list of SLM practices
suitable to the agro ecology zones that was used in the sensitization and awareness
campaign with the aim to inform and guide demands.

20.    The Quality Assurance Group did not assess Quality at Entry.

2.2    Implementation

21.    The GEF project started in May 2011 and was implemented as planned by the
same set of staff implementing the Fadama III project at all levels.

22.    Following project launch, progress made towards the achievement of the GEO
was related to the following mutually reinforcing factors:

       (i)     involvement of Fadama III staff in the preparation of the project, which
               made them familiar with the project even before implementation;
       (ii)    the use of PIUs with hands on experience in CDD operations, community
               mobilization, familiarity with World Bank operational procedures and the
               use of dedicated CEMP M&E and FM staff for the GEF incremental
               grant;
       (iii)   massive sensitization campaign and advocacy carried out by the project
               including the customized capacity building program for 5,185 FCAs and
               3672 other stakeholders raised the level of awareness about SLM practices
               and caused behavior change among communities with 1924 FCAs



                                             7
                 elaborating SLM subprojects in their LDPs compared a baseline of zero
                 SLM subprojects;
        (iv)     direct disbursement to communities conferred financial autonomy to
                 beneficiaries, engendered ownership of the project and helped fast track
                 project implementation.;
        (v)      Likewise the establishment of multi-sector platform i.e. National SLM
                 committee showed government commitment to take a coordinated multi
                 sector approach to up scaling SLM practices and was instrumental to
                 engaging with the states, other non-state actors and development partners
                 on investment programming; and lastly
        (vi)     adequate background analysis provided good entry points to nudge
                 communities to adopt SLM practices.

23.   Overall, implementation efficiency was high since the project cost and
implementation period were as planned without any cost and time overrun.

24.     A midterm review of the project, carried out in January and February 2012,
revealed that there had been significant strides at achieving the PDO 9 . But more
importantly, the following pending actions that would have increased the achievement
rate of the project before the MTR were highlighted as follows, and which were
addressed in the second leg of the project execution: (i) conclusion of training on land
use plan mapping software for the selected LGAs; (ii) disbursement of awards to
deserving FCAs/FUGs to scaling up of SLM sub-projects; (iii) developing tools for
tracking vegetation cover and land degradation (NDVI or NPP); (iv) developing indicator
tools for local and global environmental benefits; (v) integration of geospatial tools in
knowledge base; and (vi) conclusion of SLM website, monitoring of SLM activities,
tracking of NDVI or NPP and environmental benefits, and TA training and diagnostics.

25.    After the midterm review, project disbursement accelerated with completion of
outstanding tasks and studies 10 noted at MTR. By project closing the project was fully
disbursed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.    The project designed and implemented an M&E system that focused appropriately
on the key elements of project objectives as reflected in the result framework and result
monitoring arrangements. Also, the M&E design included a quarterly reporting format


9
 The enabling environment for scale up of SLM practices improved from a baseline value of 3.23 to 5.63
on a scale of 10 at midline. Also, a total of 1,230 LDPs out of a total of 3,931 LDPs contained 2,592 SLM
sub-projects. Out of this, 1,650 (63.67 percent) SLM sub-projects were fully implemented. Grants
disbursement status was 33.19 percent.

10
  The studies conducted include studies to track enabling environment for SLM scale up, studies to track
vegetation cover and land degradation, studies to track adoption of SLM practices including local and
global benefits of the project.


                                                    8
and mission data collection template developed for both Fadama III and the GEF. Project
M&E officers and facilitators were adequately trained at national and subnational levels.
As a result, all the SFCOs were able to track and report regularly the evolution of output
and outcome indicators. Further, the PIU also use the mission data collection template to
collect project level data that feeds directly into the ISR. The template was used to collect
information on project input (e.g. number training for different categories of
stakeholders), output (No of LDPs with SLM and No of FCAs /FUG with SLM
subproject, No of Investment Framework produced etc.) and outcome (perception of
stakeholders) of the project where feasible. The M&E data sources included independent
surveys and analysis carried out to track PDO (composite index) including a baseline
done for Fadama III which covered GEF activities.

27.     Data were also collected through Rapid Assessment and Focus Group Discussion
(FGD) by the project. The M&E information formed the basis for the technical assistance
carried out regularly by NFCO to states, engagement with policy makers at all levels and
provided input into the focus of supervision missions. Both GEF and Fadama III data are
being migrated into an SQL server –based project Management Information System
(MIS) database called PANEX MIS and nearing completion.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.     Safeguards. The project was classified as Category “B” and complied with the
requirements of all safeguard policies triggered. The GEF grant triggered six safeguards
policies, including: (i). Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), (ii) Natural Habitats
(OP/BP 4.04), (iii) Pest Management (OP/BP 4.09), (iv) Involuntary Resettlement
(OP/BP 4.12), (v) Forests (OP/BP 4.36), and (vi) Project on International Waterways
(OP/BP 7.50). The instruments prepared under the parent project (ESMF, PMP and RPF)
to address any negative environmental and social impacts of the project were adopted for
the GEF. These instruments were disclosed in Nigeria and at the InfoShop. In addition,
site specific ESMPs were prepared as project level mitigation measures and were
implemented, and supervised by trained Environmental officers (EOs) across
participating states during subproject cycle using screening forms and checklist to screen
all eligible subprojects and the Environmental officer at the National level provided
adequate oversight. No negative environmental impacts were reported during the project
life.

29.     Financial Management. The project submitted its Interim Financial Reports
(IFRs) on a timely basis with one minor exception. In addition, the timeliness of the
replenishment of applications helped the project to achieve a remarkable disbursement
rate of 100 percent by closing. The project complied with all fiduciary covenants and all
audits were carried out as at when due and were not qualified. The project was granted an
audit waiver for the period ended 31 December 2011 because it was not cost effective to
carry out an audit of few project activities. Internal audit review was consistently and
regularly throughout project life.




                                             9
30.     Procurement. The supervision of the procurement activities of Fadama III and
GEF was done regularly. During the regular review of NFCO procurement activities by
the Bank, a weak capacity was found at the inception of the project but this was
addressed through the restructuring of the unit with the recruitment of a seasoned
procurement officer. Other measures taken were the implementation of procurement
filing and tracking system in one location.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

31.     The Bank Agricultural development Policy Operation-(AgDPO) in support of
the ATA has succeeded in mainstreaming some concrete transition arrangement for
broader Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) and SLM. The AgDPO whose program
development objective is to strengthen the policy environment and institutional capacity
to enhance agricultural productivity and market access among farmers, and to improve
agriculture sector management has resulted in some catalytic activities. As a result of
policy dialogue and engagement under the AgDPO series, a dedicated unit under the
department of Land resources called Environment and Climate Change Unit (ECCU)
has been established in FMARD to champion ATA climate smart agriculture agenda.
This unit has a budget line to fund its action plan that is being developed.

32.    In addition, the Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management (NEWMAP) project
in the amount of US$ 500 million which was developed by the government with the
Bank’s support has taken on some of the good practices from the Fadama III GEF SLM
on building effective coordination and an enabling environment for SLM. NEWMAP,
with a fully blended GEF financing in an amount of US$ 3.96 million and the Special
Climate Change Fund (SCCF) funds in an amount of US$ 4.63 million, would
complement achievements under Fadama III GEF SLM to develop sustainable land
management and resilient production system. The objective of the Erosion and Watershed
Management Project for Nigeria is to reduce vulnerability to soil erosion in targeted sub-
watersheds. The project has four components, three of which addresses similar areas as
Fadama III GEF including:(1) support for on-the-ground interventions to help reduce
vulnerability to land degradation; (2) support to institutions and information services
which will strengthen the enabling environment for effective implementation of erosion
and watershed management; and (3) support to enhance Nigeria’s capacity to promote
low carbon, climate resilient development.

33.    Under Fadama III Additional Financing (AF), the Bank and the counterpart
remained committed to promoting SLM practices starting in Kogi state where the AF is
supporting the production of cassava by young farmers. SLM practices, that provide
improved microclimate such as shelter belts are being promoted among others.




                                           10
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

34.     The project’s objectives, design and implementation remain relevant as they were
at project inception. The project objectives were and continue to be consistent with the
Government current development priorities of reducing vulnerability of the agriculture
production system to climate variability as articulated in the National Climate Change
Adaptation Strategy and Action Plan for Climate Change in Nigeria – NASPA-CCN,
National Policy on Climate Change 2012, and the National Agriculture Resilience
Framework (NARF) 2014. These government policy and strategies recognize that SLM
practices could deliver triple win goals of building adaption to climate change, stability in
yields and removing the barriers to low--‐carbon development in the sector.

35.    The project objectives are also consistent with the GEF-4 Land Degradation Focal
Area Strategy’s Objectives 1 (enabling environment for SLM) and 2 (up scaling SLM
among communities), as well as Strategic Program 1 (support to sustainable agriculture
and rangeland management).

36.     Similarly, the project's development objective contributes to the achievement of
some of the outcomes envisioned for the strategic cluster one of the FY14-2017 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Nigeria (Report No 82501). The CPS clearly recognizes
that agriculture productivity is sensitive to climate change and land degradation, and
therefore promotes investment to build adaptation and reverse land degradation. The
project objectives are therefore highly relevant.

37.     The project design was also highly relevant to its objectives. Leveraging on an
existing and well-functioning national CDD program under FADAMA-III provided the
means of reaching target beneficiaries with capacity building to increase knowledge and
competence in sustainable land management and its relatively quick scaling- up among
participating communities. Furthermore, top-down SLM interventions and advisory
services of the past had generally been ineffective in stimulating adoption and reaching
the poor. The project design therefore contributed to providing communities the
opportunity to elaborate SLM subprojects following a participatory process. Providing
local communities a chance to take responsibility for choosing the type of investment
they wanted, and for implementing and subsequently operating and maintaining it, was a
proven development approach. In addition, the choice for the project of a large capacity-
building program at all levels of government, beneficiaries and facilitators, was
particularly important and relevant for Nigeria where the capacity to develop and
disseminate SLM practices was weak. Therefore, the project design was practical and
highly relevant to reach stated objectives.

38.    The project was implemented within the planned period without extension and
was fully disbursed. In addition, project activities were carried out without any cost
overrun (stayed within 7 percent operating cost) which implies high level of operational



                                             11
efficiency. Overall, drawing from the high relevance of objectives, design and
implementation, the relevance of the project is rated as high.


3.2    Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

Rating: Substantial

39.    Physical achievement: The discussion on the project physical achievement is
organized broadly around two pillars namely (i) institutional development and capacity
building and (ii) knowledge management and provision of SLM Awards.

40.     Institutional development and capacity building: The project objectives were
largely achieved. Drawing from the findings of the diagnostic studies conducted during
preparation, the project sensitized key stakeholders on the benefit of SLM. The capacity
building program conducted, communication channels ( print and mass media) employed
and the use of information education materials (35, 000 copies each of flyers and posters
in English, Yoruba, Hausa, and Igbo) offered a spectrum of learning environments and
provided learning opportunities that had not previously been available to these
communities. For example, the weak capacity for SLM focused extension and advisory
services were addressed by the project through capacity building to ADPs. As a result,
the communities and institutions were considerably strengthened in their knowledge
relating to improved awareness of the consequences of unsustainable use of land and the
preparation of productive SLM subprojects including land use planning. Another
important contribution of the project is the sensitization of the rural population regarding
the important roles of both men and women in promoting sustainable land management

41.     Capacity building for Local Development Planning: The sensitization and
capacity building 11 carried out by the project resulted in attitude change among
participating communities, and helped the communities to prepare 4,724 LDPs with
3,508 proposals for SLM sub-projects of which 93 percent (3,254) were fully
implemented.. In terms of training and capacity building, the project reached 5,185 FCAs
(75 percent level of achievement) and 3,672 individuals (77.8 percent achievement
compared to target of 4,714) including project and government staff at the national and


11
   Some of the training modules include :Fadama III GEF (Scaling up SLM practices, Knowledge &
Coordination --Background & Objectives – Components, GEF and justification for GEF Intervention in
Fadama III ,Training module on Integrated Resource utilization and management of Watershed, Land
Degradation and Sustainable Land Management (SLM): An overview, Training on the composite index
for the enabling environment, Training module on Land/soil Management, Identification and preparation
of SLM focused LDPs, Training module on Agroforestry Practices, SLM in Climate risk mitigation and
adaptation, Ensuring Safeguards compliance in SLM (GEF) sub – project, Cost and benefits of SLM sub –
projects, Project PDOs, Result Framework and Monitoring and The Community SLM Award.




                                                12
sub national levels. In addition, the project capacity building resulted in 1,924 FCAs
including SLM subprojects in their LDP. This is clearly more than the targeted 740
participating communities at appraisal. Other people reached through the capacity
building included (i) 2,131 community facilitators- (ii) 521 Extension and advisory staff;
(iii) 468 local government staff; (iv) 377 state government staff; and (v) 185 federal
government staff. In effect, national, state and local institutions capacity for community-
based demand driven approaches to sustainable land management practices has been
strengthened. Overall, capacity building targets were substantially achieved.

42.     Capacity building for Land use planning: Because land use planning capacity was
weak at the local level and given its importance to sustainable land management the
project supported 62 LGAs with computers and Arc GIS software for rural land use
planning including capacity building. The target for capacity building for land use
planning was fully achieved.

43.     Capacity Building for SLM Investment coordination: In addition, the project
sensitization and advocacy built broad consensus and political support among policy
makers and facilitated the participation of more than 20 targeted state governments in the
development of Nigeria’s model multi sector SLM Investment Framework. With capacity
building support to the National SLM committee and series of consultation around
priority setting with states, the model National Investment framework was developed
using Cross Rivers as an example. The investment framework which was adopted by the
government of Nigeria was validated in a policy workshop with a total number of 124
persons made up of Honourable Commissioner of Agriculture Kaduna state, the
Permanent Secretaries of Ministries of Agriculture/Environment from the 36 states of the
Federation and FCT, National Project Coordinators of relevant donor or government
programs, SLM Committee, NGOs, CBOs, Fadama III Zonal and                    State Project
Coordinators for the 36 states and FCT; and the officials of National Fadama
Coordination Office. The immediate impact of the support is vibrant National SLM
committee and a more coordinated cross-sectoral investment programming for SLM in
Nigeria.

44.     Knowledge and SLM Award: The project over achieved the development of
knowledge product to track adoption and changes in land productivity as well as the tool
to track local and global environmental benefit of SLM. In addition, the project
developed an SLM website which is linked to Fadama III website and over achieve target
on the training on the use of the tracking tools developed (90 individuals trained over 75
targets). This level of achievement points to a good project design and effective approach
of working through the group for mutual interest and support. The project through is
support to knowledge management is providing availability and access to knowledge on
SLM. In terms of incentive, 135 out of the targeted 185 FCAs were rewarded by the
project through the SLM award grant bringing the level of achievement to 100 percent. .

45.    Project outcomes: There are two key performance outcome indicators for the
achievement of GEO as stated in the Project Appraisal Document. Out of these two, one
was almost fully achieved and the other was achieved exceeding the agreed target. What

                                            13
follows is the assessment for each outcome indicator with linkages to corresponding
outputs.

46.     Stakeholder perception of the enabling environment for sustainable land
management (Target: 6.0). The project achieved substantially the target on stakeholders’
perception (from 3.23 at baseline to 5.66 at project closing representing 94 percent
achievement) and the number of direct beneficiaries (288,600~111 percent achieved). At
the same time, the information and capacity building was so effective that project
achievement went beyond just laying foundation for scaling up of SLM practices and it
actually started scaling up SLM practices. For example, at project closing, about 286,621
hectares were brought under SLM practices across participating states.

47.     No doubt, the project sensitization program for beneficiaries, policy makers and
other key stakeholders including training programs has contributed to improved political
support through improved level of awareness on the full consequences of land
degradation and its potential impact on government effort at all levels to improve
agricultural productivity, reduce vulnerability to climate change and negative impact on
GDP 12. As noted in section 2.5, the AgDPO series has also contributed to mainstreaming
climate smart agriculture in FMARD budget with the establishment of dedicated unit and
a department of extension for climate response advisory services and capacity building
program. This is in addition to the development of a National Agriculture Resilience
Framework by FMARD as strategy to drive the agenda with the active participation of
the National SLM committee.

48.    The project support to the National SLM committee on the preparation and
adoption of the National Investment Framework for SLM and engagement with non-state
actors fostered multi sectoral planning and coordination. The project has equally
contributed to laying the foundation for good coordination of SLM activities by providing
opportunity for different actors to come together to act on reversing land degradation.

49.     Undeniably, the Government has a long standing commitment to fighting land
degradation, but the support of the project to the National SLM committee and the good
diagnostic studies done during project preparation provided an evidenced based policy
dialogue which has generated renewed interest and commitment to prioritize investment
on SLM. At the same time, the project has contributed to strengthening the capacity to
develop and disseminate SLM practices at the state level. Along with the contribution of
the project to multi stakeholder consultation and capacity strengthening, the project has
also developed knowledge products (tool for tracking changes in land productivity, land
degradation and overall ecosystem function and tool for tracking local and global
benefits of SLM) which are hosted on the SLM website to the benefit of different
categories of stakeholders.




                                           14
50.    Based on the analysis above, the achievement of project objectives is rated as
substantial.

3.3       Efficiency

51.    Efficiency is assessed by: (a) comparing the GEF incremental benefits expected at
appraisal with the project's achievements; and (b) assessing CBA of Select SLM practices

52.     GEF Incremental Benefits: The GEF incremental grant contribution to the
baseline scenario was expected to be in the form of sensitization on the benefits of SLM,
capacity building on the identification and inclusion of SLM compatible income
generating subprojects in local development planning process, improved rural land use
plan, financing of competitive community-driven grant facility to reward participating
communities, support to improve institutional capacity to develop, disseminate and
mainstream SLM practices in investment programming, and improved availability of and
access to knowledge on SLM. The project has generated these expected benefits:

      •   Sensitization and Capacity building: The project sponsored 600 sensitization
          visits, and used information education materials (35,000 copies each of posters
          and flyers) including other media channel (TV, Radio slots, & DVD) to
          disseminate information to 5,185 communities and 3,672 other
          stakeholders( including facilitators, extension workers, policy makers) on the
          benefit of sustainable land use and management. In addition, 468 extension
          workers were also trained to transfer knowledge and disseminate SLM
          technologies and practices relevant for local environment. As a result, there has
          been increased level of awareness and knowledge of stakeholders at local, state
          and federal level on sustainable land use and management.

      •   Support SLM subproject activities: The project assisted 1,924 FCAs which is
          more than the targeted communities to prepare LDPs (26 percent over the 10
          percent target) that incorporated sustainable land management practices relevant
          to their local needs. As part of the preparation of these community plans, training
          were conducted to strengthen local capacities of the FCAs at every stage of
          subproject cycle through implementation. Training on sustainable land use and
          management was also provided at the level of FCA to influence demand for SLM.

      •   Rural Land use planning: The project trained 62 LGAs on rural land use
          planning and provided 62 computers and GIS software to enable them prepare
          their land use plans after project closing. The immediate impact of this is
          enhanced capacity to produce rural land use plan.

      •   SLM Award: The project rewarded 132 FCAs for successful implementation of
          communities SLM subprojects. SLM subprojects usually produce public goods
          that not compensated for. Without an incentive, there is a tendency for
          communities not to adopt SLM because of its long term payback period. The
          SLM award helped to satisfy preference for short term benefit.

                                              15
      •   Platform for multi-sector coordination: The project provided capacity building
          and study tour for the National SLM committee that eventually emerged as a
          platform for coordinating SLM investment programming and policy at the
          national and subnational levels. In addition, the grant supported the establishment
          of state SLM committee. By project closing, 24 states had SLM committees in
          place.

53.     Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA). Given that the GEF focus was on capacity
building that does not have a direct economic benefit, a cost benefit of land management
practices was carried out. The results showed that the land management practice that
combine inorganic fertilizers have positive Cost Benefit Ratio greater than 1 which shows
that they are profitable.

54.     In addition to the incremental benefit and the CBA, project results were achieved
within stipulated timeframe and within the limit of the appraisal budget. The GEF
incremental grant was fully disbursed as planned; within the originally planned
timeframe and based on the originally planned expenditure categories, and the project
achieved intended outcomes and objective substantially. With respect to operational
efficiency, the project was efficient.

55.    Based on the incremental benefits achieved as a result of the GEF project, positive
Cost Benefit Ratio (CBR) for SLM practices and operation efficiency with respect to
budget and project timeframe, the project efficiency is rated as substantial.

3.4       Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.

56.     The rating of the overall project outcome was satisfactory based on the high
relevance of project objectives, design and implementation; substantial achievement of
the GEO and efficiency. The project contributed to country-level efforts to improve the
enabling environment for the scaling up of Knowledge and Practices for SLM and
complemented local efforts by communities to reverse land degradation. While
promoting the sustainable use of land, the project helped to scale up environmentally
sustainable and agro-ecologically appropriate SLM practices among participating
communities. The project also built substantial capacity among local communities to
promote and incorporate SLM considerations into their local development plans.
Furthermore, as a result of the training provided to government staff at national and
subnational levels and sustained engagement at the policy level, there is renewed
commitment to develop a resilient production system with low carbon foot print.




                                              16
3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

57.      Poverty Impact and Gender. The mainstreaming of the project into a CDD
operation would mean that different segments of the rural poor have been reached. There
is evidence of feminization of poverty and women’s increasingly vulnerability to climate
change. The project’s deliberate effort to promote the participation of women would have
had positive impact given the established link between environment, poverty and gender
in the literature.

58.     Social Development. The project CDD approach was participatory and relied on
the capacity built in the communities through a range of interventions – sensitization,
meetings, and visits, among others. The project mobilized communities in socially
inclusive organization such as FCAs and EIGs to work on development issues of
common interest thereby improving social capital. This approach is capable of reducing
conflict among rural land users and could promote social stability. Given its strong
capacity building focus, the project did leave behind communities with tremendous
knowledge and learning to undertake similar initiatives on their own.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

59.    The project's capacity building activities substantially improved the executing
agency's managerial capacity and knowledge of SLM. Likewise, it has caused an attitude
change among participating communities making more of them to demand for SLM
subprojects in their LDPs. Project support to the National and state SLM committees has
improved mainstreaming of SLM in policy dialogue and investment planning including
multi sector coordination. The institutional strengthening provided to the staff of local
government and the extension has contributed to effective land use planning and
provision of relevant and demand responsive SLM advisory services.

(c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

Not applicable.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

60.      The ICR task team conducted interviews with the TTL, team specialists, the client,
National SLM committee, GEF focal person in Nigeria. These interviews helped to
clarify the context in which the project operated, and identify unintended positive impacts
of the project. Informal interviews with direct beneficiaries occurred during missions to
the project areas.

61.    Stakeholders and beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with the Project result but
wished project allocation to the FCA for subprojects were higher than it was. However,
the beneficiaries liked the integration with the baseline project because beneficiaries were
given planning and spending decisions. Also, because the baseline project provided them

                                            17
other support needed to overcome initial investment constraints for SLM practices, the
beneficiaries found the integration a useful means on reaching them.


4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate.

62.     The overall risk to development outcome was rated moderate. The risk supporting
this overall rating is discussed as follow:

63.     Social risk to development outcome is rated low: It is expected that the
communities and beneficiaries would be able to maintain the capacity built with the plans
and subprojects. Also, the participatory approach of the project brought people together
to work for the management of common assets and transferred responsibilities for
restoring and protecting the soils to the communities including helping the beneficiaries
to resolve collection action problem around natural resource management.

64.     Institutional risk to development outcome is rated moderate: Although the
project involved substantial capacity building program for government institutions at the
national and sub national levels, the recent establishment of an Environment and Climate
Change Unit (ECCU) with budget line at the Federal level and the preparation of the
National Agriculture Resilience Framework that is being championed by the National
SLM committee at FMARD points to a strong foundation for good institutional support.
More so, the NEWMAP projects would continue to support relevant institutions
responsible for erosion, climate change and SLM in Nigeria providing a means of
sustaining engagement with key stakeholders.

65.     Government ownership/commitment to development outcome is rated high:
Undeniably, government is committed than ever before to building adaptation capacity
and growth that is not vulnerability to climate change. A case in point is the
establishment of a dedicated unit at a time when there is general cut in capital budget.
Government commitment varies between federal and state levels.

66.    Financial risk to development outcome is moderate: Financial sustainability of
sub projects and profitability of SLM practices indicate that economic and financial risks
to development outcomes are low. The subprojects are viable in the medium to long term
because of positive ERR and Cost Benefit Ratio (CBR).

67.      Environmental risk is low: Given that SLM practices are environmental friendly,
environmental risk to outcomes is equally low. Sustainable management of land has
positive impact on quality of life and reduction in conflicts through its effect on restoring
soil fertility, improving agricultural productivity and consequently, better livelihood.




                                             18
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

68.     The Bank’s performance in project identification, preparation, and appraisal is
satisfactory. The project was well conceptualized and relevant to Nigeria’s situation
where land degradation and climate variability post serious threats to rising uncertainties
with rain fed agriculture. The design emphasized knowledge transfer, peer-learning and
capacity building and other forms of institutional support needed at all levels to address
the barrier to SLM adoption. In addition, the task team included core sector indicators on
number of direct beneficiaries, and social inclusion (share of women who are classified as
marginalized) as well as GEF (Strategic Investment Program) SIP for SLM on areas
under SLM. The Bank team mobilized to prepare the project had requisite knowledge of
the subject matter and the design benefitted from strong analytical underpinnings.

69.     The integration of the project under an on-going CDD operation, FADAMA-III,
and the incorporation of the SLM award to incentivize beneficiaries in the project were
novel. This integration has helped to address the shortcoming of the past top down
advisory services which has had limited success and offered the ability to tailor
interventions to the local context. The project objectives were consistent with
government and Bank strategies at appraisal and project closing. However, targets and
scope appeared somewhat ambitious even though it was meant to expand reach and
opportunities for up-scaling SLM practices to a large number of beneficiaries. It however,
did not substantially affect the achievement of the PDO.

(b)    Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

70.     The Bank performance in supervision is rated Satisfactory. The Bank organized a
joint mission World Bank/FGN regularly that was focused on the achievement of the
GEO for the project. The Bank mobilized the right mix of expertise that included a
natural resource specialist for project supervision. The Bank team recognized the need to,
and did, provide support to building NFCO's capacity, particularly in procurement,
safeguard and financial management. It also provided prompt assistance to reorganize the
procurement unit which facilitated expeditious implementation of project activities
despite startup delay.




                                            19
(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

71.   The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The Bank team
paid great attention to the quality of project supervision and made timely
recommendations to improve implementation.

5.2    Borrower

(a)    Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

72.     The government showed strong commitment to this project and embraced the
participatory approach in local development planning. Also, the establishment of the
National SLM for multi sector stakeholder consultation reflects government commitment
to the fight against land degradation in Nigeria. The establishment of the ECCU unit as a
direct outcome of the policy dialogue under the AgDPO reinforces government sustained
commitment to develop resilient production system.

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

73.    The performance of the implementing agency was satisfactory. The PIU had
experienced and competent staff and was able to fully disburse the GEF grant in time.
Throughout implementation, the project complied with all legal covenants satisfactorily.
Financial audit reports were submitted when due. All audit reports had unqualified audit
opinions and were acceptable to IDA. In sum, the PIU has provided evidence of
professional commitment, and a capacity to learn rapidly from project preparation and
implementation experience.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

74.     The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. The Borrower
demonstrated a high level of commitment to project objectives and the PIU managed
M&E, fiduciary and safeguards requirements satisfactorily leading to a full disbursement
of the grant which is not common in Bank executed grant.




                                           20
6.     Lessons Learned

75.    Utilizing a CDD approach, with community capacity building as an entry
point, can be effective for promoting sustainable livelihoods of communities who
depend directly on their natural environment and improving governance of SLM.
The project demonstrated the positive role of trained communities; facilitator and other
stakeholder can play in restoring degraded soils. Through this bottom-up approach that
expanded local capacity and promoted community empowerment, the project achieved
important results in improving the enabling environment for scaling up of SLM.
Individual participating communities and network of facilitators including other key
stakeholder drove project implementation processes through participatory model that
promoted co-responsibility.

76.     Sustainable Land Management efforts provide an important opportunity to
engage women as active agents of reversing land degradation rather than passive
recipients of adaptation support. Women are disproportionately vulnerable to the
impacts of land degradation, and this must be addressed when supporting communities’
ability to reverse its negative impact and adapt to climate variability. This way, project
will achieve twin goal of addressing land degradation and as well promote gender
mainstreaming in natural resource management.

77.     Incentives matter for scaling up SLM practices. Reducing land degradation
and adoption of SLM often comes at a cost and tend to require medium to longer term
investment by land user. However, some market failures such as lack of credit,
technology or knowledge could serve as barrier to such investment. Market based
incentives such as co-financing (matching grant) from government have proven to be
effective in helping land user overcome initial investment constraints.

78.     Ambitious targets overstate the scope of what project could deliver. There is a
need to balance between having maximum project impact and overstating scope of what
project can realistically achieve. Unrealistic targets limit the scope of impact of project
upfront and places undue burden on project implementation unit to deliver results. During
project preparation it is important to set realistic targets so as not to overstretch PIUs or
spread impact of project too thinly.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners:

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

79.    A summary of the Recipient’s ICR is presented in Annex 7.

(b)    Cofinanciers

(c)    Other partners and stakeholders
        (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)


                                               21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)    Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                                       Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
         Components                                      Estimate
                                  (US$ millions)                           Appraisal
                                                       (US$ millions)
Capacity Building, Communication and Information Support
Capacity building for FCA                  1.29                    1.31             101.5
Capacity building for LG for                    1.51               1.96             129.8
rural
Communication outreach                          0.81               0.45              55.5
National and State                              0.48               0.48               100
coordination
Community SLM award                             1.91               1.80              94.2
           Sub-total                            6.00               6.00               100
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring tools                                0.66               0.65              98.5
SLM information system                          0.14               0.15             107.1
           Sub-total                            0.80               0.80               100
             Total                              6.80               6.80               100



(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                    Type of Co-    Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                     financing (US$ millions (US$ millions Appraisal
                                                       )            )
Borrower                                        0.00         0.00         0.00
Global Environment Facility (GEF)               6.80         6.800        100




                                           22
Annex 2:     Outputs by Component

Project Output             Output Indicators ( as in       Actual Achievement
                           PAD)
Global Environmental Objective Indicators
                           Stakeholder perception of      An index of 5.66 as
                           enabling environment for       against the end-line
                           sustainable land management    target of 6.00 was
To improve the enabling                                   achieved, representing
environment for scaling up                                93.33percent
sustainable land                                          achievement.
management in              Direct project beneficiaries   A total of 288,600 direct
participating communities.                                beneficiaries over the
                                                          targeted 259,000. This
                                                          represents 111 percent
                                                          achievement.
Component A: Capacity Building, Communications and Information Support
                                                         Over achieved. 26 percent
                                                         of the registered FCAs
                                                         included SLM in their
                                                         LDPs over 10 percent
                                                         target.
Improved participation of
                          Participating communities that This target was over
communities in
                          have selected SLM sub-project achieved as 1,924 FCAs
management of natural
                          for inclusion in their LDPs    over 740 participating
resources
                                                         FCAs that their LDPs
                                                         were approved for
                                                         implementation included
                                                         3,500 SLM subprojects in
                                                         their LDPs.
Improved capacity of      Community associations         A total of 5,185 persons
stakeholders to advise on reached through trainings      have been reached out of
or implement SLM          and/or communications on       a target of 7,400. This
                          SLM practice/planning          represented 70.1 percent
                                                         achievement.
                          People reached through         3,672 reached out of
                          training and/or                target of 4,714. This
                          communications on SLM          represents 77.8 percent
                          practice/planning              achievement.
                          (a) Community facilitators     2,131 reached out of
                                                         targeted 2,500,
                                                         representing 85 percent
                                                         achievement
                          (b) Extension and advisory     521 reached out of 814
                          staff                          targeted. This is 64
                                                         percent performance.

                                        23
                              (c) Local government staff   468 reached out of 700
                                                           expected, representing 67
                                                           percent.
                           (d) State government staff      377 reached over 500
                                                           target value. This
                                                           represents 75.4 percent
                                                           performance
                           (e) Federal government staff    185 reached out of
                                                           targeted 200, representing
                                                           92.5 percent performance.
Strengthened capacity of   LGAs trained in rural land use 62 LGAs received
participating LGAs for     planning                        training on land use
participatory planning                                     planning out of targeted
                                                           62. This is 100 percent
                                                           achievement.
Improved capacity of       State governments               30 states out of targeted
Federal and State          participating in development of 20 (150 percent)
institutions to coordinate Nigeria’s multi-sector SLM      participated in the
on rural land and water    Investment Framework            development of multi-
management across          (cumulative number of State     sector SLM Investment
sectors.                   governments.                    Framework.
Component B: Monitoring, Evaluation and Knowledge
Knowledge on SLM is        Improved monitoring tools       The two (2) tools
increasingly accessible to developed to track adoption of developed, representing
stakeholders               SLM practices and changes in 100 percent achievement.
                           land productivity (number of
                           tools)
                           Key stakeholders trained in     90 key people trained on
                           applying the monitoring tools   applying monitoring tools
                           (number per year)
                           SLM information system          Fully achieved. SLM
                           developed                       information system
                                                           developed


Annex 2-Appedix 1: A brief on Composite Index:

Composite Index
Introduction

A Composite Index (CI) for SLM Enabling Environment was designed to measure
political commitment and the relative strength of the enabling environment. It is made up
of six components: (i) political support; (ii) policy formulation such as land tenure,
decentralization and multi-sectoral planning; (iii) organization structures; (iv) financial
resources such as public expenditure trend; (v) knowledge, monitoring and evaluation;
and (vi) legal and regulatory environment. The Composite Index was developed and
                                            24
applied during project preparation and at mid- term as a simple and low-cost perception
based survey among experts on the extent to which the enabling conditions for SLM
(institutions, financing, knowledge, etc) are improving or deteriorating. The CI was
developed as part of the GEF Strategic Investment Program for SLM in Sub-Saharan
Africa (SIP) and it is being used widely under GEF financing.

Project Scope and Methodology

CI is constructed from a perception based survey implemented as part of project activities.
It was administered to key informant and actors in the program. For the end line survey,
two states (see figure 1) were randomly selected for the exercise (2 states per geo-
political zone-) and the instrument was administered to a sample of 600 individuals from
varied organization. The intuitions from where sample were drawn include ADPs,
Fadama offices, FCAs, FUGs, National Conservation Agency, Watershed management
committees, SLM committees, River Basin Authorities, FEPA, Ministry of Environment,
Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry for Local Government,
Ministry of Land and Physical Planning, Forestry Division/Wild life,
Universities/Tertiary, CBOs, NGOs, religious/community leaders, CGIARs, NARS,
International Organizations, etc.

Project Sample

Two states were selected from each geo-political zone. From each state, ten local
governments where Fadama was active were selected. Ten (10) institutions were selected
at the state level, another ten (10) institution selected from the ten local government and
three participating communities per state. Altogether, a total of 50 key informants were
selected per state giving a total of 600 key informants.




                                            25
Figure 1: Map of Nigeria Showing the Two States Selected in Each of the Six Zones




Findings: Status of Enabling Environment in Nigeria
Table 2 contains the synthesized means of Composite Index (CI) of the institutions
covered at the State, Local Government and Community levels. It also gives the overall
mean for the States, and from these means the National mean (CI) value was obtained to
give an idea of the stakeholder perception of the improvement or deterioration of
Enabling Environment for Sustainable Land Management at the end of the Fadama III
GEF project.

When the overall mean scores of the States were compared it was observed that the
highest mean score was recorded by Cross Rivers (6.52) followed by Taraba (6.41), Imo
(6.35), Ondo (6.25), Ogun (6.23), Abia (6.21), and Kogi (6.15). However, the states with
the lowest mean scores were Kebbi (3.28), Gombe (4.09), FCT (5.30), Delta (5.44) and
Jigawa (5.74).

The disaggregation of the mean scores in each state into layers of state, local government
and communities did not show any particular pattern across the states. However, the
results shown on Table 2 show that the lowest score on the enabling environment was at
the Local Government Level (5.49) followed by the State Level (5.63) while the
Community Level (5.83) recorded the highest value.

                                           26
Table 2: Composite Index Values for Nigeria (May 2012 and May 2014)
State Level Mean       Local            Community                 Overall State Mean
                       Government Level Level Mean
                       Mean
May     May         May        May          May        May        May       May 2014
2012    2014        2012       2014         2012       2014       2012
5.52    5.63        5.75       5.49         5.68       5.83       5.63      5.66
Composite Index ( scale of 10)                                    5.63      5.66



Table 2: Instruments
                                 Statement                                              SE-
SN                                                                          N      Mean Mean
     I.             POLITICAL SUPPORT
     Federal government support exists for effective SLM policies and        10    4.90    .526
1    programs.
     State government demonstrates effective SLM policies and                10    5.30    .761
2    programs.
     State ADPs support effective implementation of SLM policies and         10    5.00    .699
3    programs.
4    Local government supports effective SLM policies and programs.          10    3.50    .764
5    Public opinion supports effective SLM programs and policies.            10    3.60    .897
     Top civil servants outside of the Ministry of Environment recognize     10    4.00    .882
6    SLM as a priority problem.
     Major producer organizations support effective SLM policies and         10    4.80    .593
7    programs.
8    Private sector leaders support effective SLM policies and programs.     10    4.40    .600
9    NGO leaders support effective SLM policies and programs.                10    6.80    .663
     Professional associations (e.g., farmer, herder, and extension          10    6.00    .333
10   organizations) support effective SLM policies and programs.
     There are local activities to build support for effective SLM           10    5.90    .623
11   programs aimed at high-level political and community leaders.

     II.            POLICY FORMULATION
     A favourable national SLM policy exists, and accounts for climate       10    5.00   1.183
1    change impact on rural land use.
     Specific and realistic SLM strategies embedded in PRSP (Poverty         10    4.80    .998
2    Reduction Strategy Papers) or equivalent.
3    Specific and realistic SLM strategies to meet sectoral goals exist.     10    5.40   1.222
4    A national coordinating body exists and functions effectively.          10    5.70    .844
5    Ministries other than MOE are involved in SLM policy formulation.       10    6.60    .686
     Policy dialogue and formulation involves NGOs, community                10    6.20    .904
     leaders, and Representatives, extension services, local governments,
6    farmers, private sector representatives and special interest groups.


                                              27
    International organizations have facilitated SLM policy formulation      10   7.40    .733
7   through the provision of technical assistance and guidelines.
    International organizations have facilitated governance for SLM at       10   7.00    .775
    all levels through the provision of technical assistance and
8   guidelines.
    Key decision makers and stakeholders are aware of the impact             10   7.40    .600
9   climate change will have on land management.

    III. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
    A National SLM Program exists and is placed high in the                  10   3.90    .657
1   government structure.
    The SLM Director is full-time and reports to an influential superior     10   5.20    .841
2   officer.
    A multi-sectoral SLM approach has been implemented and                   10   4.60    .792
3   functions reasonably well.
4   NGOs are formally included in the SLM Program.                           10   5.30    .817
5   Producer organizations are formally included in the SLM Program.         10   5.50    .778
    Efforts are made to enhance community and local government               10   7.80    .554
6   participation in SLM.
    There is good coordination among SLM activities of the national          10   4.30    .989
    government, state government, local government, NGOs, private
7   sector and international donors.

    IV. PROGRAM RESOURCES
1   Public expenditures toward SLM seem to be increasing.                    10   4.40    .897
2   SLM resources are allocated according to priority guidelines.            10   6.20    .952
    There is no gap between budgetary allocation and amount released         10   4.40    .980
3   for SLM activities.
    SLM resource allocation decisions are based on considerations of         10   4.00   1.135
4   the cost-effectiveness of interventions.
    Current funding can be used flexibly in order to support effective       10   4.90   1.149
5   new SLM programs.
    There are technically competent professionals staffing the SLM           10   5.90   1.130
6   program.
7   The private sector plays a significant role in funding SLM activities.   10   6.30    .844
8   The SLM program is organized to enhance long-term sustainability.        10   6.70    .978
    There is no delay in the assignment and delivery of authorised           10   5.50    .734
9   budget.

    V. EVALUATION, MONITORING AND RESEARCH
    Operational and financial plans are developed that correspond to         10   5.60    .909
1   objectives and targets.
    SLM evaluation, knowledge management and research results are            10   6.10    .809
2   actively employed in policy formulation and program planning.
    Mechanisms and structures for SLM monitoring and evaluation,             10   5.50    .719
3   such as a formal evaluation unit, exit within the program.
4   Special studies are undertaken as needed to improve the SLM              10   6.50    .703


                                              28
     program.
     Environmental impact assessments and resource baselines are used       10   6.10    .823
     in problem assessments, project design, implementation and
5    monitoring
     Currently available geographic information systems (GIS) are used      10   7.30    .651
     to assemble relevant data layers (biophysical, economic,
6    environmental, infrastructure and social).
     There is sufficient training, organization, motivation and             10   4.00    .966
7    involvement of staff at various levels

     VI. LEGAL AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT
     National government actively supports decentralization to states for   10   4.40    .872
1    natural resource management.
     National government actively supports decentralization to local        10   4.70    .578
2    governments and communities for natural resource management.
     Legal and regulatory requirements related to SLM are enforced at       10   5.50    .806
3    the relevant levels.
     States have capacity to design and execute regulations to manage       10   5.60   1.127
4    natural resources.
     Local governments and communities have capacity to design and          10   4.60    .945
5    execute regulations to manage natural resources.
     There is rational land administration providing incentives for land    10   5.60    .777
6    users and land holders to adopt SLM.
7    Usufruct rights and/or property ownership are in place and enforced.   10   4.00    .516
     In principle, land users involved in SLM have adequate access to       10   3.80    .712
 8   markets.
 9   Input and credit services for SLM are available.                       10   3.80    .800
10   Prices affecting SLM-related producers respond to market signals.      10   5.00    .907
     No legal and regulatory barriers exist to knowledge dissemination      10   5.00    .931
11   on SLM and market prices.




                                              29
Annex 3:       Economic and Financial Analysis

Introduction

1.      The extent of the economic analysis for the project is limited for several reasons.
First, as normally done for GEF projects, an incremental cost analysis was used in
designing the project. Second, the GEF incremental grant is not an investment project
because of its exclusive focus on capacity and institutional development including
awareness creation for SLM practice and policy at national, state and local level to
stimulate demand for land improvement investment in the baseline operation. It was
meant to deliver incremental benefit to the baseline project which is in this case Fadama
III.

2.      In order to get an idea of economic costs and benefits at project end CBA analysis
was undertaken of selected farmers practicing Integrated Soil Fertility Management
(ISFM) as supported under the project. In Niger State, farmers growing rice, maize,
millet and cowpea were sampled randomly while those farmers growing cassava were
sampled in Kogi State. With these data, the NPV and BCR of the different land
management options practiced under the SLM were analyzed for economic viability.

SLM subprojects

3.      About 46 percent of SLM subprojects funded were vegetable, fertilizer and
manure category. This is not surprising given that Fadama itself is floodplain agriculture
where high value crops are grown. The next most common subprojects were on
livelihood diversification which is a key focus on the parent project.




                                            30
Table 3.1 Distribution of SLM subproject Investments
                                               Returns
                                               Horizon 13        Climate Change       Environmental
     Subproject      Number   Percentage
                                                                adaptation benefit       benefit
                                           SH     MT    LT
                                                                                          Reduced
                                                                Alternative source    deforestation and
      Woodlot         168        5.2               Ω               of wood and       forest degradation,
                                                                building materials       carbon sink
                                                                                           retained
                                                                                     Reduced pressure
                                                                                       for agricultural
                                                                    Livelihood        land conversion,
       Orchard        482        14.8                       Ω
                                                                  diversification    more biomass, and
                                                                                      reduced erosion.
                                                                                     Agro-biodiversity
                                                                Soil retention and    Reduced soil loss
Erosion control       147        4.5               Ω        Ω
                                                                      fertility         and siltation
                                                                                          Reduced
                                                                Alternative source    deforestation and
       Nursery        287        8.8               Ω             of seed, and fuel   forest degradation,
                                                                      fodder             carbon sink
                                                                                          retention
                                                                                       Increased soil
                                                                                     fertility, reduced
                                                                   Income and          erosion, more
 Agroforestry         474        14.6      Ω       Ω        Ω       livelihood       biomass, carbon,
                                                                  diversification    land productivity
                                                                                        and rainfall
                                                                                        infiltration
                                                                                      Reduced soil loss
                                                                                     and siltation, more
                                                                Soil moisture and
                                                                                       biomass, more
                                                                 fertility, water
     Shelter belts     60        1.8       Ω       Ω             availability and
                                                                                      carbon, greater
                                                                                     water infiltration,
                                                                   infiltration
                                                                                        greater land
                                                                                        productivity
                                                                                      Reduced soil loss
                                                                                     and siltation, more
                                                                Soil moisture and
                                                                                       biomass, more
      Roadside                                                   fertility, water
                       79        2.4       Ω       Ω             availability and
                                                                                      carbon, greater
      planting                                                                       water infiltration,
                                                                   infiltration
                                                                                        greater land
                                                                                        productivity

      Terracing        35        1.1       Ω       Ω            Soil moisture and     Reduced soil loss
                                                                 fertility, water    and siltation, more



13
     SH stands for short term, MT-medium term and LT-long term


                                                   31
                                                         availability and     biomass, more
                                                           infiltration      carbon, greater
                                                                            water infiltration,
                                                                               greater land
                                                                               productivity
                                                        Greater access to
                                                           water for
                                                                            More biomass and
     Earth dam      40         1.2      Ω                 agriculture,
                                                                              soil carbon
                                                         improved soil
                                                           moisture
                                                                             Soil fertility and
  Vegetable ,                                           Soil moisture and
                                                                              structure, soil
 fertilizer and    1,478      45.4      Ω                   retention,
                                                                              carbon, water
manure( ISFM)                                               livelihood
                                                                                infiltration
                                                        Greater access to
                                                           water and        More biomass and
     Rainwater
                     5         0.2      Ω
     harvester                                            resilient to        soil carbon
                                                            drought
                              100
TOTAL              3,255



Methodology

4.      A cost benefit analysis which is an economic evaluation of sustainable land
management practice called Integrated Soil fertility Management which is practiced
across all the agro-ecological zones in Nigeria was used. The CBA considered cash flow
for the land management practices and provided the estimates for the Net Present Value
(NPV) and Benefit Cost Ratio. Four land management scenarios were considered
including: (i) only inorganic fertilizer; (ii) only organic fertilizers; (iii) both; and (iv)
none, which served as a baseline scenario.

5.        The following procedures were followed:
          • Review of existing farm level data recorded by the SLM Projects in Niger and
             Kogi States.
          • Field visit to the selected states to augment and validate the existing data,
          • Identification of the farm inputs employed by the farmers
          • Estimation of financial and economic input and output prices

Conversion of Financial to Economic Values and Assumptions

6.     To convert from financial to economic values, the following items were excluded
from economic analysis calculations namely: All transfer payments including: taxes,
subsidies and other forms of grants, and loan repayment. All non-traded inputs and




                                             32
outputs prices were converted from financial to economic prices to reflect the opportunity
cost of inputs using a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9297 14.

7.       The following financial values were adjusted to reflect economic values:
     •   Fertilizer and agrochemicals, seed and other input costs were adjusted to the real
         value since the beneficiaries benefited from the 50 percent incentive under the
         input support of the parent project, Fadama III.
     •   The assets that were used in the production of the crops under the SLM GEF were
         also adjusted since the beneficiary groups got 30 percent support for asset
         acquisition. This was appropriately adjusted too.
     •   Most Fadama III farmers accessed land were through informal means and the
         amount paid for the use of such lands did not reflect the market value. We
         adjusted this by using the actual market value that would have been paid for the
         use of the land per annum under a leasehold arrangement.
     •   Preparation of NPV and BCR for each of the scenarios with the assumption that
         there will not be an annual increase in the total cost and benefits since the
         December 2013 constant prices were used in obtaining the cost and benefits.
     •   A 22 percent rate of interest, which is the opportunity cost of capital (prime
         lending rate of commercial banks) in the economy, was used for discounting.


Table 1.Summary of economic analyses of crops under SLM practices in Niger and
Kogi States 15

State Crop    Land management option                     NPV (N’000)        BCR
Kogi  Cassava Inorganic fertilizer                       817,498.5          2.6311
              Organic fertilizer                         -                  -
              Both organic and inorganic                 -                  -
              None                                       557,587.8          2.6816
Niger Maize   Inorganic fertilizer                       660,965.2          3.4769
              Organic fertilizer                         325,919.3          2.1832
              Both organic and inorganic                 208,223.7          1.6777
              None                                       -110,499           0.4374
      Rice    Inorganic fertilizer                       935,301.9          3.6471
              Organic fertilizer                         -125,390           0.5781
              Both organic and inorganic                 -148,013           0.5372
              None                                       -257,155           0.1179
      Millet  Inorganic fertilizer                       205646.5           1.6638
              Organic fertilizer                         244,592            1.903


14
  The official exchange rate of naira to dollar was N155.23 while at the parallel market a dollar was
exchanged for N166.97. The ratio of the two gave the SCF of 0.9297




                                                    33
                 Both organic and inorganic     218,532.9      1.7360
                 None                           -137,990       0.3591
       Cowpea Inorganic fertilizer              767,922        3.9200
                 Organic fertilizer             1,503,878      6.2602
                 Both organic and inorganic     1,873,287      7.8258
                 None                           63466.76       1.2847
Source: Result of field dataset

The table shows that crop production shows different cost benefit ratios and NPV for
different land management practices. From the table, a land management practice that
combines both organic and inorganic tends to be more profitable than those being grown
without fertilizers. Maize and millet production without fertilizers came up with negative
NPVs and less than one BCR, showing no profitability. In the case of rice, NPV and
BCR were only positive for production with inorganic fertilizers only. Among all crops,
cowpea came out as most profitable. This is followed by rice, cassava, maize and millet.




                                           34
Annex 4:      Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a)    Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
           Names                        Title              Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Simeon Ehui              Task Team Leader(original) AFTAR
                        Task Team Leader(current) and
Adubi Abimbola                                         AFTAR
                           Sr. Agriculture Specialist
                                                       AFTAG
Chita Oje                       Team Assistant
                                                         1
                       Natural Resources Management
Stephen Danyo                                          AFTEN Natural Resources
                                   Specialist
Lucas Akapa                Senior Operations Officer   AFTAR    Operations
Amos Abu                Senior Environment Specialist AFTEN Environment
                          Senior Social Development               Social
Chukwudi Okafor                                        AFTCS
                                   Specialist                  Development
Africa Olojoba         Senior Environmental Specialist AFTEN Environmental
Akinrinmola Oyenuga                                              Financial
                       Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Akinyele                                                       Management
Sunday Acheneje             Procurement Specialist     AFTPC   Procurement
Manush Hristov                  Senior Counsel         LEGAF       Legal
Modupe Dayo Olorunfemi          Team Assistant         AFCW2 Team Assistant
Ngozi Malife                    Team Assistant         AFCW2 Team Assistant
Azra Lodi                       Team Assistant         AFTAR Team Assistant
Nina Doetinchem                   Consultant           AFTEN    Consultant
Chika Ezeanya                     Consultant           AFTEN    Consultant
Daniel Sellen                   Peer Reviewer          AFTAR Peer Reviewer
Foluso Okunmadewa               Peer Reviewer          AFTSP Peer Reviewer
Supervision/ICR
 Abiodun Elufioye          Program Assistant
                                  Program Assistant   Program Assistant
                                                           AFCW2                  AFCW2
                                                                    Program Assistant
                                                               Senior Operations
Lucas Kolawole Akapa         Senior Operations Officer    AFTA1
                                                                    Officer
                                                                    Senior
Mary Asanato-Adiwu         Senior Procurement Specialist AFTPW Procurement
                                                                   Specialist
Abimbola Adubi                 Sr Agricultural Spec.     AFTA1
                            Sr Natural Resources Mgmt.         Natural Resources
Stephen Danyo                                            AFTN3
                                       Spec.                     Mgmt. Spec.
Akinrinmola Oyenuga                                                Financial
                             Sr Financial Management     AFTM
                                                                 Management
Akinyele                             Specialist            W
                                                                   Specialist

                                         35
                                        Consultant                        TTL and author
Sheu Salau                                                     AFTA1
                                                                               ICR
Bolarin Omonona                         Consultant              AFTAI      ICR mission

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                    US$ Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY08                                         140.37                      110.04
                               Total:         140.37                      110.04
Supervision/ICR
FY 12                                          80.96                       56.68
FY13                                           90.54                       61.97
FY14                                          130.41                       32.92
                               Total:         301.91                      151.57




                                            36
Annex 5:       Beneficiary Survey Results

1.      As part of the beneficiary engagement during the ICR mission, interviews were
held with the Chairman National SLM and some select state SLM Committees, GEF
Focal person at Federal Ministry of Environment, TTL and task team members. In
addition, meetings were held with the PIUs of the SFCOs visited, and the ICR mission
also interacted with project facilitators, MDAs at state level and project beneficiaries
during field visit including some SLM awardees.

2.      Overall, beneficiaries were satisfied with the impact of the project and lauded its
relevance to alternative livelihood (see table 1). They particularly appreciated that
Fadama III helped them to overcome initial binding constraints i.e. low short term
benefits of SLM by providing them access to funds and advisory services to grow their
traditional staple crops. Some of the beneficiaries liked the project ability to encourage
women participation in farming and marketing activities through its target on gender.

Table 1: Relevance to Beneficiaries Needs
                              No of Persons                   Percentage
Highly relevant               67                              93.1
Relevant                      5                               6.9
Less relevant                 0                               0
Not relevant                  0                               0
Total                         72                              100
Source: ICR mission 2014

3.      The project focused on capacity building, and its massive sensitization campaign
touched many cadres of staff at all levels including participating communities. As a result,
there was general agreement that for the first time, the project provided opportunities for
the different actors to engage, to have a full understanding of the consequences of the
land use practices and to begin to take collection action at planning for SLM investment,
developing technologies and disseminating same including replenishing their degraded
natural capital. About 67 percent of the communities (see Table 2) interviewed during the
ICR mission confirmed that the training has increased their level of awareness and
stimulated their appetite to demand for livelihood activities that will help protect their
land.

Table 2: Extent of utilization of capacity building
                                No of Persons                 Percentage
Less extent                     4                             5.6
some extent                     7                             9.9
Very large extent               60                            84.5
Total                           71                            100
Source: ICR mission 2014




                                             37
4.     Some beneficiaries (8 percent) noted that they experienced competition for labor
between traditional staples and some SLM subprojects. While others confirmed that they
received premium for their product (92 percent).

5.      Regarding the GEF envelope, there was consensus that the allocation was small
and that the envelope for SLM Award was even smaller in their assessment. They gave
example, that not all the 5 best subprojects selected were eventually rewarded by the
project.

6.      Beneficiaries revealed that GEF incremental support is helping them to reverse
land degradation and at the same time has helped to address technology access
constraints. Overall, beneficiaries agreed that the project was relevant to their conditions
and showed strong temporal preference for SLM with short term benefits including those
with less demand for labor.




                                            38
Annex 6:   Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                  39
Annex 7:    Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

  1. Scaling up Sustainable Land Management (SLM) Practices, Knowledge and
     Coordination (Fadama III GEF) is a three and half year incremental grant to the
     Federal Government of Nigeria, focused on mainstreaming SLM in Nigeria’s
     agricultural sector. The incremental GEF fund of $6.8milllion supported Capacity
     Building, Communications and Information Support, as well as Monitoring,
     Evaluation and Knowledge components that were fully integrated into the base
     Fadama III Project. Implementation took place in 30 States and the FCT from
     May 24, 2011 to December 31, 2013.

  2. The development and global environment objective of the SLM Fadama III GEF
     was to improve the enabling environment for scaling up sustainable land
     management in participating communities. Stakeholder perception of the
     enabling environment was measured by a composite index (CI) ranging from 0 –
     10, which gave the extent to which the enabling conditions for SLM (institutions,
     financing, knowledge, etc.,) were improving or deteriorating. An independent
     tracking of the CI gave a national average of 5.66 at project completion.

  3. Of the 7,400 FCAs made up of about 259,000 individuals that were estimated to
     be direct beneficiaries, 40 percent (103,600) was expected to be females. Actual
     value achieved at completion was 288,600 comprising 58 percent males and 42
     percent females. The shortfall is attributed to the late release of fund. On
     inclusion of SLM activities in the LDPs, 1,924 FCAs out of 4,724 participating in
     the base Project, achieved 3,500 subprojects approval. At project end, 2,971 SLM
     subprojects were fully implemented across the participating States an
     achievement of 168 percent which is attributed to increased understanding of the
     benefits of SLM practices/technologies. With respect to communication, 5,185
     FCAs of the estimated original target of 7,400 were reached through training
     and/or sensitizations on SLM practice/planning, giving a percentage of 70. This
     is attributed to extensive awareness creation mounted among the community
     associations.

  4. The various cadres of staff that benefited from training/communications were
     2,131 Facilitators out of targeted 2,500 (85%); 521 out of estimated 814
     Extension and Advisory Staff were trained (64%); Local Government staff 468
     out of 700 (66.8%), State Government 377 out of 500 (75.4%); and Federal
     Government staff 185 out of 200 (92.5%). 60 LGAs of the targeted 62, were
     trained in Rural Land Use Planning.

  5. The NFCO printed and disseminated 300 copies of SLM Investment Framework
     to States, Parastatals and Agencies. Two States (Gombe and Cross River) that
     actively participated in the development of Nigeria’s multi sector SLM
     investment framework along with the other 28 states were able to produce their
     State-specific investment framework.



                                        40
6. In Monitoring, Evaluation and knowledge component, three (tools to track
   adoption, local and global benefit and land productivity change) improved
   monitoring tool over the targeted two was developed to track adoption of SLM
   practices and changes in land productivity, giving an achievement of 150 percent.
   90 key stakeholders over the 75 key stakeholders targeted were trained in
   applying the monitoring tools. SLM information system has been developed i.e
   the website and parent project MIS is being finalized. Project performance in ISR
   rated Development objective, implementation progress and actual disbursement
   satisfactory.

7. Some of the lessons learnt during implementation included the fact that funding
   was limited in that the $6.8 million was insufficient to cover the 30 States and
   FCT. Secondly, some States did not clearly understand financial implementation
   arrangements. Thirdly, some of the SLM Committees had to disagree over who
   would chair until the National SLM committee came to the project rescue to
   resolve the issue.

8. Bank performance was satisfactory. The task team was acted promptly to resolve
   any implementation challenges including advocacy visits to policy makers at the
   state level on counterpart fund payment. However, turn around for No objection
   request could be improved.

9. With respect to economic and financial analysis conducted, The NPVs of SLM
   subproject are greater than zeros while the ERR of between 44.6 and 48.3 percent
   were greater than the estimated cost of capital of between 20 and 25 percent. This
   means that the three SLM models practiced by the Fadama III farmers in the
   country are viable.

10. It is recommended that in future projects of this nature funding envelop should be
    enlarged. Transition arrangements include: Sourcing and leveraging other
    opportunities for maintenance and follow up grant; linking up with Agro forestry
    units, ADPs, Extension departments of MOAs as well as with other existing
    similar projects; and Involving national SLM committee to coordinate follow up
    actions.




                                       41
Annex 8:   Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                   42
Annex 9:     List of Supporting Documents


  1. Aide Memoire 2009-2013.

  2. Implementation Status Report 2010.

  3. GEF Project Identification Form.

  4. Liniger, H.P., R. Mekdaschi Studer, C. Hauert and M. Gurtner. 2011. Sustainable
     Land Management in Practice – Guidelines and Best Practices for Sub-Saharan
     Africa. TerrAfrica, World Overview of Conservation Approaches and
     Technologies (WOCAT) and Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
     Nations (FAO)

  5. Republic of Niger Impacts of Sustainable Land Management Programs on Land
     Management and Poverty in Niger Report No. 48230-NE

  6. Sustainable Land Management and Poverty Alleviation by Stein Holden
     http://arken.umb.no/~steiho/Sustainable%20Land%20Management%20and%20P
     overty%20Alleviation.pdf

  7.    FMARD 2013 Building Resilience in Nigeria’s Agriculture Value--‐Chains
       through “Climate Smart” Policies, Programs and Actions

  8. IFPRI 2012 Medium-term impact of Fadama III project in collaboration with
     Nkonya E., D, Phillip, E. Kato, B. Ahmed, A. Daramola, S. B., Ingawa, I. Luby, E.
     A. Lufadeju, M. Madukwe, and A. G. Shettima.

  9. Conduct of Independent Tracking of Composite Index to Measure Improvement
     In the Enabling Environment of Sustainable Land Management. M. A. Hussaini
     on May 2014.

  10. BTOR SLM ICR mission to Oyo, Osun, Kaduna And Niger State.

  11. World Bank Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) (2010-2013) Report No. 46816-
      NG approved 2009.

  12. Joint World Bank-IFC-MIGA Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) FY2014-
      FY2017.

  13. GEF Project Appraisal Document (PAD) 2010 Report No: 548.88-NG.

  14. A Study To Develop A Monitoring Tool To Estimate The Global And Local
       Environmental Benefits From The SLM Practices Adopted Under Fadama III
       Project Aminu Suleiman December 2013.

                                          43
15. Development Of A Tracking Tool For The Adoption Of Sustainable Land
   Management (SLM) Practices Among Fadama Beneficiaries In Nigeria. FMARD
   March 2014.

16. A study to develop and apply a monitoring tool that will track changes in in land
   productivity, land degradation and overall ecosystem functions Nationwide
   FMARD 2014.

17. Agricultural Transformation Agenda (ATA) Blue print.




                                       44
45
