                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 32456

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (SCL-44780)

                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 105 MILLION

                                         TO

                                       INDIA

                                      FOR THE

                 SECOND TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




Energy & Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2004)

                        Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs.)
                               Rs. 1.0 = US$
                               US$ 1 = Rs.

                              FISCAL YEAR
                            April 1   March 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BPL      Below Poverty Line
BT       Board of Trustees
CA       Constitutional Amendment
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community Based Organizations
CCP      City Corporate Plan
CMC      Chennai Metropolitan Corporation
CMDA     Chennai Metropolitan Development Athority
DEA      Department of Economic Affairs
DMAWS    Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply
DTCP     Directorate of Town and Country Planning of GoTN
EC       Empowered Committee
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
ESR      Environmental and Social Report
FIs      Financial Institutions
GF       Grant Fund
GIS      Geographical Information System
GO       Government Order
GOI      Government of India
GoTN     Government of Tamil Nadu
HDFC     Housing Development Finance Corporation
HUDCO    Housing and Urban Development Corporation
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICICI    ICICI Limited
ID       Institutional Development
IDC      Institutional Development Component
LACI     Loan Administration Change Initiative
MUDF     Municipal Urban Development Fund
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGOs     Non-Government Organizations
NLC      Non-Lending Category
PMR      Project Management Report
PMU      Project Management Unit
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
SFC      State Finance Commission
TA       Technical Assistance

TNUDF          Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund
TNUDP          Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project
TNUIFSL        Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Finance Services Ltd.
TNULB          Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies
TNIUS          Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies
TNHB           Tamil Nadu Housing Board
TNSCB    Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board
TNUITC         Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Trust Company
UIC            Urban Investment Component
UISR           Urban Infrastructure Services Review
ULB            Urban Local Bodies
WSS            Water Supply and Sanitation

                           Vice President:     Praful C. Patel
                         Country Director      Michael F. Carter
                          Sector Manager       Sonia Hammam
                       Task Team Leader:       K. Mukundan

                                            INDIA
                       Second Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Additional Information

Project ID: P050637                                                  Project Name: TN URBAN DEV II
Team Leader: Patricia Clarke Annez                                   TL Unit: TUDUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 31, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: TN URBAN DEV II                                          L/C/TF Number: SCL-44780
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (65%);
                            Sub-national government administration (18%); Roads and
                            highways (17%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Municipal governance and institution
                            building (P); Municipal finance (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/02/1998                                     Effective: 10/13/1999                10/13/1999
     Appraisal: 00/00/0000                                         MTR:                             01/12/2001
      Approval: 05/27/1999                                      Closing: 11/30/2004                 11/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/TNUDF/IDC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:                Vincent Gouarne                                Frannie A. Leautier
Team Leader at ICR:             K. Mukundan                                    Hiroaki Suzuki
ICR Primary Author:
Patricia Annez
2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective is to improve urban infrastructure services in Tamil Nadu in a
sustainable manner. This objective is to be achieved through: (i)strengthening the managerial, financial
and technical capacities of Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), through an institutional development program, in
line with the urban sector reforms which the GoTN is implementing following the passage of the 74th
Constitutional Amendment; (ii) mobilizing resources for basic urban infrastructure investments costing
about US$ 183 million (water supply, sewerage and sanitation, solid waste management, roads,
transports, storm water drains and street lighting, etc.); and (iii) Securing sustainable funding sources for
the urban infrastructure investment, through TNUDF and municipal bond issuance, beyond the Bank's
line of credit operations.

3.2 Revised Objective:
 Objectives not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consists of the following parts :

Part A : Sub-loans (Line of Credit Component)

The financing of Sub-project through provisions of Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers

Part B : Integrated Sanitation Program

1.       The financing of Schemes through provision of Capital Grants to Beneficiaries
2.       Assisting PMU and ULBs in the preparation and implementation of Schemes through the provision
of consultants' services

Part C : Institutional Development

1.       The financing of Activities through the provision of Grants to Recipients.
2.       Strengthening the managerial, financial, technical and procurement capacity of ULBs, including the
preparation and implementation of their City Corporate Plan, carrying out studies to promote the
sustainability of institutional reforms, preparation of operational manuals, through the provision of
equipment, materials, training and technical assistance.
3.       Strengthening the institutional capacity of DMAWS and PMU through the provision of staff
training, equipment and materials.
4.       Strengthening the capacity of TNUDF and selected ULBs to raise funds from the domestic capital
market through, inter alia, provision of financial advisory services.
5..      Establishment and operation of the Project Management Unit.

3.4 Revised Components:
Component; Cost; Rating
SUB-LOAN UNDER THE URBAN INVESTMENT COMPONENT;                          $80,000,000.00;    S
INTEGRATED SANITATION PROGRAM;                 $5,000,000.00;      S
IDC - PROVISION OF GRANTS;            $5,000,000.00;     S
IDC - STRENGTHENING ULBS & CCPS;               $10,000,000.00;      S
IDC - STRENGTHENING DMAWS & PMU;                 $250,000.00;     S
IDC - STRENTH. TNUDF & FIN ADV ULBS;              $500,000.00;      NR
PMU OPERATION COSTS;              $1,000,000.00;   S
FEE;    $1,000,000.00;      S



                                                      - 2 -

UNALLOCATED;           $2,200,000.00;       NR


3.5 Quality at Entry:
 3.5.1).The project is rated satisfactory in terms of development objective, design, and quality at entry, primarily
due to the strength of the design of the line of credit component. Quality at entry is more questionable for the other
components, based on documentation available from the appraisal. The institutional development component
seems to have been reworked into a more focussed program than that specified at appraisal.

3.5.2).The CAS of 1997 identified both enhancing city management and municipal services as well as supporting
state urban sector reforms that implement the 73rd and 74th Constitutional amendments as its objectives in the
urban sector. This project DO's were broadly consistent with the first CAS objective, but project design focused
more on providing finance and TA to improve services than on promoting fundamental State reform, as discussed
below in paras 3.5.5-3.5.10.

3.5.3)One key thrust of this project with respect to the development objectives was to provide continued support to
the Tamil Nadu Development Fund (TNUDF). This fund had been created in November 1996 as part of the
restructuring of the Tamil Nadu Urban project.

3.5.4)The restructuring involved creating a new institution that was majority owned by Government, but also
owned by three well-established Indian financial institutions all of which have private equity ownership, the ICICI,
the HDFC, and the ILFS. By the end of this project, their joint share ownership in the TNUDF amounted to 30% of
total. Day to day management of the fund was delegated to an asset management company, the TUIFSL, which
was rewarded on the basis of disbursements, and which was majority owned by the three participating financial
institutions (PFIs). Overall oversight of the fund was provided by a trust company, the TUIFC, which operated as a
board to the TNUDF, with representation of all major shareholders. This somewhat complicated structure had been
used before, particularly in cases when government entities are shifting operations from government to an
autonomous agency. However, the TNUDF was the first public-private joint financial intermediary specializing in
municipal financing without State government guarantees. By supporting a public-private partnership of this kind
for mobilizing resources to ULBs, the project sought to build financial discipline by imposing rigorous financial
and technical assessment of projects.

 3.5.5) From the time of restructuring of the TNUDP I project to project appraisal for TNUDP II, the TNUDF had
operated effectively, hence a continued support to this institution was a reasonable approach. As an autonomous
agency, the TNUDF had been able to process loans more rapidly than its government predecessor. By the time of
writing the ICR for the first Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project in March 1998, a little over a year after its
creation, the TNUDF had approved loans worth about Rs. 1,500 M. This compares to approvals of Rs. 2000 M in
the eight years of operation of its predecessor, the Municipal Urban Development Fund of Tamil Nadu (MUDF).
At the same time, the TNUDF had maintained the strong performance on loan recovery already achieved by the
MUDF, and thus continued to play an important role in establishing principles of financial discipline for
investment projects undertaken by ULBs.

3.5.6) The project design included covenants to increase the resources mobilized from the private sector for
infrastructure projects in ULBs. Expectations of private interest in lending to ULBs turned out to be optimistic in
some respects. However, this optimism reflected a view broadly shared throughout India at the time, and as such,
the project design was not ahead of general market perceptions. Thus, on the supply side of funds, the project
design took a reasonable approach for mobilizing resources for funding projects in Tamil Nadu's ULBs.

3.5.7) Regarding the demand side for funding, i.e.ULB finances and autonomy, the project focused on institution
building in municipalities, supported primarily through preparation of City Corporate Plans, GIS studies,
preparation of manuals for engineering and accounting. This component was not specified in much detail in the
appraisal documents, but the component evolved to include support for introduction of accrual accounting and
computerization, thus supporting greater transparency and rigor in municipal accounts, consistent with the 74th




                                                          - 3 -

CAA's intent to devolve greater resources and responsibilities to ULBs.

3.5.8) Beside supporting the continued development of the TNUDF, the project also sought support to the reform
process through two studies: (1) a management audit of selected ULBs to develop a phased program of institutional
reform on staffing and personnel policies and streamlining of procedures; and (2) a second study to clarify the roles
between ULBs and line agencies with direct responsibility for urban service delivery in municipal jurisdictions. In
addition, the passage of a revised municipal act, the Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Bill (TNULB) in November
1998, was considered a significant government commitment to reform that would assist in meeting project
objectives. Project design did not take into account the possibility that the TNULB would never be implemented,
as has turned out to be the case to date.

3.5.9) Based on the materials prepared before project approval, the project components focusing on the demand
side received less attention, were less clearly specified, and involved less substantive dialogue with the GoTN than
did the arrangements regarding the supply side of funds. The process of discussion and follow up on the two
studies to be supported under the project to link them to ongoing project implementation, and to spur consideration
of broader policy issues affecting the project was included only in the PIP without much prominence and
specificity.

3.5.10) The risk that the State would not sustain the reform process consistent with the intent of the 74th CAA
was not identified at appraisal. The key risk was identified as ownership of reforms at the ULB level, while the role
of the State, which has proven significant during implementation of the project was not mentioned. A more
thorough diagnosis of the constraints to ULB resource mobilization as well as a clearer understanding of the role of
the State in decision making pertaining to the approval and implementation of investment projects in ULBs would
most probably have resulted in better project design and execution.

3.5.11) Experience in implementation also pointed out an important flaw in the design for pricing TNUDF's loans.
The lagged pricing structure, high and inflexible mark ups, and the lack of any prepayment penalty were more
consistent with a government-sponsored monopolist development bank model than the more market driven
conception for the TNUDF envisaged under the project. As it turned out, Indian capital markets went through
dramatic changes over the project period, and these changes penalized the TNUDF. (See also section 4.5 on
Institutional Sustainability)

3.5.12) The ISP component also supported the objective of mobilizing resources for urban infrastructure
investments. This component was targeted directly at poor communities, and was executed by the State government
through the PMU. This intervention supported and enhanced an ongoing State program. The ISP design focused
on improving maintenance of municipally-sponsored public latrines. This objective was to be achieved through
mobilization of community groups to maintain latrines, with penalties (loss of the grant financing) to those ULBs
that did not provide support to community groups.

3.5.13) The project included a very high subsidy component for capital costs to direct beneficiaries (100%).The
financing plan included a 50% contribution from ULBs, but there is little evidence of analysis of ULB capacity to
mobilize the contribution, nor any specifics on timing and enforcement of collection of the ULB contribution. In
practice, the non-Bank portion of project costs was usually provided by a GOI sponsored program, VAMBAY.
More thorough examination of the feasibility of the proposed financing might have revealed this extent to which
this sub-component, as conceived by the borrower, was indeed a State-sponsored top down initiative, fully financed
directly or indirectly through State, not ULB, resources.

3.5.14) The appraisal documents do not indicate that the design and costing of the units built under the ISP reflect
the results of a least cost analysis and attempts to use cost-effective designs. This may have been due to the
emphasis on a participatory model for project design. However, a participatory approach is unlikely to do much to
manage capital costs when beneficiaries are given a 100% capital subsidy.

3.5.15) Experience in implementation of the ISP indicates a disconnect between the participatory, demand- driven
concept outlined in the project documentation and the GoTN's plans for the project. GoTN planned to provide a


                                                          - 4 -

specific allotment of ISP units was to each municipality and town panchayat as part of ISP execution. The GoTN's
concept was to target supply of units to communities and use CBOs to implement projects thus chosen. In some
cases when a CBO could not be found, municipal councilors took on this role.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
DO 1. Strengthening managerial, financial, and technical capacities of ULBs, in line with the implementation of
the 74th Constitutional Amendment Act (74th CAA). Achievement is rated satisfactory.

4.1.1) The focus of the institutional development component shifted in the course of implementation from the
original emphasis on CCP's to accounting reform, following USAID's lead in the FIRE program. The accrual
accounting system has been rolled out to all corporations, municipalities, and town panchayats (now reclassified as
special village panchayats. 49 of the special village panchayats are due to be re-classified as municipalities to
reflect their urban status.). The computerization of accounts is largely complete. This achievement is quite
substantial and is unparalleled in India. While the starting position for Tamil Nadu was better than in other states,
due to the tradition of strong accounting, the change is nonetheless significant, and required strong commitment
from GoTN. For example, chartered accountants were hired to move the transition forward. Several ULBs have
been visited in the course of supervision missions and the ICR mission, and it is generally agreed that the change is
a substantial one. Computerization of accounts has reduced the time to close the accounts, and morale of municipal
accountants has improved because they have access to computers for their work.

4.1.2) Not only have municipal accounts been computerized, but information kiosks for use by the public have also
been introduced in all municipalities and corporations, providing residents with information on the amounts due
for property tax and water charges, for example, at computer terminals provided at tax payment centers.
Government Orders have been issued requiring municipalities to offer payment only through these automated
centers. This provides transparency to taxpayers and reduces the elements of discretion exercised by tax collectors
in their interface with the public.

4.1.3) To support the transition to the new accounting system and computerization, the PMU completed a major
training program. Under the project, 11,400 training man days were provided per year. This compares to an
average of 400 per year in the period 1996-2000. An external evaluation of the training program (prepared by the
Madurai Institute of Social Sciences) indicates that 71% percent of 160 revenue officials in ULBs interviewed
were either fully or partially familiar with the new accounting system. For a sample of 25 ULBs, the number of
audits taking thirty days or less increased from 8% to 32%, and the number of audits taking between 91 and 200
days declined from 28% to 12%. It is disappointing to note, however, that the audit lag for ULB accounts remains
significant. Only 4 of a total of 102 municipalities have completed their audits for 2003-2004 as of November
2004, and 34 have been completed for 2002-2003. Reducing the audit lag was not explicitly targeted under the
institutional development component, but it is important to the ultimate goal of achieving market access.

4.1.4) The implementation of the training component was delayed for some time, and much of the training took
place in the last year of the project implementation. The actual number of man days of training provided undershot
the targets in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) by about 36%. Costs per participant were roughly as planned.
Delays in mounting the training component and difficulties in freeing up staff from their immediate work
responsibilities were the key constraints to reaching the training objectives fully. For the design of future projects,
it should be noted that the external evaluation consistently noted that the trainees would have preferred more use of
local language rather than English in the training courses.

4.1.5) The financial capacities of municipalities have been increased over the project period, largely due to the
transfers provided to ULBs in the State Finance Commission (SFC) allocations. Between FY2001 and FY2003,
total revenues in municipalities have increased by about 42% and in corporations by 49% (13% and 14%
annually).This performance indicates a very modest growth in ULB revenues in relation to State GDP.(Average
annual growth of nominal GDP over the seven year period between 1995 and 2002 (latest available data) was
about 12%.) While the State cut back and delayed its transfers to ULBs in 2000-2001 during a financial crisis,



                                                         - 5 -

since then these transfers have resumed and were increased during the period of the Second SFC award.

4.1.6) ULB performance on own revenues shows a more mixed picture. Only water charges (accounting for less
than 10% of total revenues in ULBs) have increased at rates that exceed inflation. The property tax, the main own
revenue source for ULBs, has only increased at about 5%, and in municipalities, the annual growth of property tax
revenues has declined in the 2001-2003 period as compared to 1997-2001. GoTN's decision to delay the property
tax revaluation planned for 2001 has played an important role in this regard. Because the new municipal law has
not been implemented, the shift to an area-based scheme for property taxes, envisaged at appraisal and expected to
increase property tax revenues, has not been implemented.

4.1.8) In spite of the constraints experienced due to the slow pace of devolution, the TNUDF has worked with its
borrowers to encourage them to improve their finances in the course of project appraisal. They pioneered with
ULBs the practice of obtaining advance deposits from users in some water and sewerage projects to defray part of
the capital costs. Several ULBs raised their water tariffs in response to TNUDF evaluations of the financial
viability of their proposed projects. In some cases, this has resulted in increased revenues. In others, however,
revenues have declined due to reduced collection efforts. Nonetheless, TNUDF's efforts to improve resource
mobilization have contributed to sending a message to ULBs and their constituents about the links between cost
recovery and services, and have helped the TNUDF to understand how to address these issues more effectively in
their future lending.

DO 2: Mobilizing resources for basic urban infrastructure investments costing about $183 million (water supply,
sanitation, solid waste management, roads, transport, storm water drains, and street lighting, etc.)

Satisfactory

Line of Credit Component ($173 million)

4.1.9) The project succeeded in mobilizing considerable resources for investments in urban infrastructure. Under
the line of credit component, nearly $160 million of investments were supported, against an estimate of $173
million at appraisal. A total of $62 million were financed directly by the Bank line of credit (estimated at $80
million at appraisal) while over $97 million in other funds was mobilized for urban investments, overshooting the
appraisal target by about 5%. Additional Annex 8 provides details on the benefits of these investments as projected
at the time of appraisal by the TNUDF.

4.1.10) The line of credit component performed exceptionally well for the first three years of the project. Loan
approvals and disbursements from the fund picked up quickly after project approval, and were ahead of schedule
after a year. Project preparation costs were reduced from over 13% of project costs under the MUDF to about 7.5%
in this project. This roughly translates into savings of Rs. 230 million (over US$ 5 million) over the project period.
Cost overruns on the larger ULB sub-projects were about 3% under the project, as opposed to 10% otherwise. Loan
recoveries were excellent at close to 98-99%, better than projected at appraisal. (With regard to measuring
overdues, the TNUDF follows Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines for recognizing non-performing assets. Thus
arrears start to be recognized after 180 days.) GoTN provided the TNUDF with access to intercepts of State
transfers to ULBs for a major State sponsored program for improving roads in ULBs, and this greatly facilitated
high recovery rates. Both the rapid disbursements and recovery performance of the TNUDF are outstanding in the
Indian context. Projects were executed more rapidly than when executed by government departments. For example
for many roads projects, they were completed in two to three months, whereas these often took over a year when
executed by the state road department.

4.1.11) However, after the mid-term review, the TNUDF faced several difficulties that slowed the progress of
disbursements under the line of credit. These difficulties all took time to resolve, and as a result, disbursements of
the Bank line of credit at completion were only about 77% of the original projections.
        In FY 2001-2002, the GoTN experienced a fiscal crisis, and had to reduce its transfers to ULBs, and paid
them late. The uncertainty this created, as well as the immediate financial impact, significantly slowed down the




                                                         - 6 -

development of a project pipeline.
         The Statewide revaluation exercise used for property tax assessments, to be undertaken in 2001 was
delayed, and given the upcoming elections in 2006, no immediate plans are underway to complete it. This decision
has reduced the buoyancy of property tax revenues. The annual rate of growth of property tax revenues was only
6% in FY01-FY04, while it had been about 18% from FY98-FY01.
         Meeting the covenant requiring that the TNUDF mobilize $25M in sub-project co-financing from the
three participating financial institutions(FIs) caused difficulties. (See also paras 4.1.16-4.1.19) Eventually, the
issue was satisfactorily resolved through amendments to the covenant, but the uncertainty over several months
retarded project development.
         The process of TNUDF sub-project clearance, a responsibility of the Commissioner of Municipal
Administration(CMA) office of the GoTN, slowed down considerably, and this problem was only recently resolved.

         Conditions in credit markets in India had shifted considerably, and with them, the TNUDF's market
position. At appraisal, credit markets were tight, and the TNUDF's cost of funds was somewhat advantageous in
comparison to market rates. By 2001-2002, interest rates were declining rapidly, financial markets were quite
liquid, and interest rates have only started to increase recently. The pricing formula established for the TNUDF
responded to market shifts with a one year lag, which put the TNUDF at a distinct disadvantage. It should be
recognized that the TNUDF's vulnerability to competition in the market was at least partially a product of its own
success in introducing the ULBs to financial markets. However, the inflexibility in their pricing formula made it
difficult for them to respond to this competition.
         Two years ago, the 611 Town Panchayats were re-classified as Special Village Panchayats. As such, they
are not allowed to borrow from the TNUDF. Now, some 49 of those are in the process of being reclassified as
municipalities to recognize their urban character. It is not clear how much of the potential borrowing base of
TNUDF was affected by this decision, but this grouping includes many of the suburban areas surrounding major
metropolitan cities, who often have borrowing capacity.
         It took a year for a new CEO to be appointed to run the TNUDF, after the first CEO left for a different
position. This delay was particularly costly for the TNUDF because it coincided with the other adverse
developments noted above, and doubtless impeded the formulation of a vigorous response to them.

     4.1.12) Given the number of adverse factors affecting the project pipeline, it is not surprising that they were
     not all resolved in time to meet the original project targets. Nonetheless, the overall result indicates a
     substantial mobilization of funds for urban investments. The roughly $32 million per annum of investments
     supported in the context of the credit line component of the project compares favorably to total investments in
     ULBs in the pre-project period, estimated at $55 million in FY 1995-1996.

     Integrated Sanitation Component ($10 million)

4.1.13) This component successfully constructed all the units envisaged, with details shown in table 3 of Annex 8.
Although considerable delays were experienced in the beginning of the project, these were made up in the later
stages of project implementation. As noted earlier, the direct contribution to capital costs from ULBs was not the
50% envisaged at appraisal, and the Bank funds financed more than the 50% originally envisaged. This result is
due, in part, to the fact that no ULB contribution was required of the town panchayats, and the Bank financed 70%
of the capital costs for them. However, ULBs were required to provide municipal land for the construction of the
facilities. In many of these ULBs, the land has substantial value, in some cases amounting to the equivalent of
direct construction and equipment costs. As such a substantial hidden subsidy is provided by the ULB to the
program. In some cases, the land provided by the ULB was far enough from the target users' residences that the
utilization of the unit was compromised. The user groups were expected to recover only out of pocket maintenance
costs, including electricity, but the waste removal costs are borne by the municipality. These costs can be
substantial, and depending on usage, can be close to the direct costs borne by the user group.

4.1.14) While the subsidies on the ISP are large, GoTN considers these projects a substantial improvement over the
other sanitation projects typically sponsored in ULBs. Those projects do not mobilize user groups, and recover no
user charges for operation and maintenance. Often these facilities are no longer used within months of



                                                          - 7 -

construction.

4.1.15) The ISP component has succeeded in mobilizing some communities, and achieved health benefits in the
neighborhoods served, reducing open defecation by 80%. The results for the ISP component nonetheless show that
the efficiency achieved is less than projected at appraisal, and somewhat disappointing overall. The units are only
used by 63% of allotted users in the municipalities and 50% of allotted users in the town panchayats. In only 25%
of the units in municipalities were all facilities (bathing, washing and latrines) being used fully; this was the case
for only 10% of the units in the town panchayats. 90% of the units were managed by CBOs and functioning as of
the time of the independent evaluation in November, 2004. However, only two thirds of the units were assessed to
be in good working order in municipalities and 45% in the town panchayats. This performance is disappointing,
and compares unfavorably with a similar component in the Bombay Sewage Disposal Project in which all units
were operating at project completion. Regarding collection of user charges, 60% of the units in municipalities were
collecting from 100% of users, while only 20% were doing so in the town panchayats. Problems with usage,
maintenance, and cost recovery appear to have been particularly acute in the town panchayats. Social marketing to
promote the concept of using latrines rather than open defecation is particularly important in these less densely
populated areas. The CBOs appear to have had limited impact on the design and selection of locations, and the
uneven usage of facilities reflects this. Although a rigorous comparison is beyond the scope of this ICR,
nonetheless evidence from two other slum sanitation programs, one supported by the Bank in Bombay and another
undertaken by NGOs in Pune, suggests that it may be possible to provide similar services at considerably lower
costs. ( Bombay Sewage Disposal Project ICR June 12, 2004 p.6,7 indicates a construction cost of roughly Rs. 1900
per beneficiary as against an estimated Rs. 4000 per beneficiary in this project. "Pune Slum Sanitation",
Manuscript April 2004, Water and Sanitation Program indicates that per seat toilet costs were closer to Rs. 50,000
vs. an average of Rs. 100,000 per seat in this project.) In spite of these shortcomings, the project has channeled
considerable additional resources for these critical services for the poor.

DO 3: Securing sustainable sources of funding for the urban infrastructure investment, through TNUDF and
municipal bond issuance, beyond the Bank's line of credit operations.

Satisfactory

4.1.16) The spirit of this objective has been met, although not as envisaged at appraisal. Unquestionably, the
TNUDF has sought to link ULBs with broader capital markets in India. Through the use of the grant fund, the
TNUDF was able to assist some ULBs in exploring innovative project structures and new sources of financing. The
TNUDF, in response to a covenant, mobilized funding through a bond issue, although this funding came at
relatively high cost in comparison to other sources of funds. Direct municipal bond issuance has not taken off as
was expected at the time of appraisal,. Although TNUDF did issue one bond, they also facilitated several other
innovative transactions:
         Madurai Ring Road, a toll road financed by TNUDF and taken out by the market (US $ 6.4 Million),
resulting in a savings of Rs 6.5 Million (US$ US$ 140000 approximately) a year to the municipality.
         Karur toll bridge (Rs. 1400 Million) on BOT, with a concession period of 14 years.
         Alandur Sewerage with an investment of Rs.80 million on the treatment plant by the operator of a total
project cost of Rs. 420 million
         Tirunelveli and Cumbum Bus Stands financed by the project, with loan repaid on receipt of cash payments
from potential tenants. This complex in Tirunelveli also includes outsourcing of Operation & Maintenance
(O&M) resulting in an annual saving of Rs. 2.5 Million.
         Facilitated the first tax free Municipal Bond for Chennai Metro Water Supply & Sewerage Board
(CMWSSB) to finance the Chennai Water Supply Augmentation Project I (Rs. 420 Million)
l         A pooled financing bond issue to provide water facilities to several towns.

4.1.17) In the course of project implementation, the expanded involvement of the participating financial
institutions (PFIs), who were shareholders in the restructured fund did not materialize. The policy purpose of the
covenants requiring additional funding from the PFIs was to draw them into a financing relationship with urban
local bodies. It now appears that the PFIs (and the Government of India) have defined their mission so as to
exclude this kind of local government development financing, at least as regards smaller scale projects of the type


                                                          - 8 -

supported by TNUDF, and have thus not developed the capacity to process them. There are good reasons for huge
IFIs like ILFS and ICICI to concentrate on the financing of major infrastructure projects and wholesale support for
financing systems instead, and the tax treatment of the dividend was a serious disincentive to further equity
contributions. It is to the credit of the TNUDF that they sought out satisfactory alternative approaches to meeting
the intent of the covenant requiring additional municipal funding from Indian capital markets.

4.1.18) It is important to assess the achievement of this objective in the context of the evolution of               the
decentralization process in India and the optimistic assessment (since revised) of the prospects for private urban
infrastructure finance in India that was prevalent in the latter half of the 90's. In practice, the States in India, and
Tamil Nadu has been no exception in this regard, have proceeded slowly with the process of ceding both revenue
sources and autonomy to ULBs. As a result, ULBs in Tamil Nadu are still very highly dependent on GoTN support
for any important decision. The high degree of ULB dependency on the GoTN, combined with the small revenue
bases of ULBs, greatly reduce financial institutions' appetite for investing in a direct relationship with most ULBs
at this stage. In such a situation, an intermediary such as the TNUDF plays a role in linking the ULBs to financial
markets. The discipline that the TNUDF exercises in using commercial criteria to appraise their projects is
valuable in inculcating fiscal discipline and preparing the ULBs for a more direct relationship with the capital
markets as the gradual process of decentralization unfolds. It now appears that this period of transition for both the
ULBs and the TNUDF will be longer than expected at the beginning of the project.                    The slow pace of
decentralization also underscores a delicate balance for the TNUDF. It must manage a relationship not only with
multiple ULBs but must also establish a strong working relationship with the GoTN, because they are the
TNUDF's key client until substantially more autonomy, both financial and administrative, devolves to ULBs.

4.1.19) Thus, the TNUDF, with support through the project and aided by favorable capital market conditions, has
forged important new links between the ULBs and capital markets, and has helped to promote innovative
transactions. Nonetheless, it is important to note that the overall policy environment in the State has restrained the
autonomy, both financial and administrative in ULBs, and thus limits how much investment can be funded from
capital markets.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Credit Line:

4.2.1) The table 1 in Additional Annex 8 provides details on the physical outputs of all sub-projects financed
under the credit line, as projected at the time of sub-project appraisal. Under the line of credit component, nearly
$160 million of investments were supported, against an estimate of $173 million at appraisal. A total of $61.5
million were financed directly by the Bank line of credit (estimated at $80 million at appraisal) while over $97
million in other funds was mobilized for urban investments, overshooting the appraisal target by about 5%. Table
4 in Annex 8 shows the sector-wise distribution of approvals of sub-projects supported under the credit line.

Integrated Sanitation Component

4.2.2) Please see para 4.1.13 Also please note Table 3 of Annex 8 for specifics on the number of units built and
costs.

Institutional Development Component:

4.2.3) Please see paras 4.1.1-4.1.4

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1) No economic rate of return was computed for sub-projects before project approval, although this was
provided for in the lending guidelines. Since no base line before project and under project improvement scenarios
were developed at appraisal, it is not possible to assess benefits ex-post. TNUDF does not systematically follow up
on the operations of their projects, since their main concern is that the loans be repaid, and this has not been a
problem thus far. As mentioned above, costs and delays have been reduced in the projects supported by the
TNUDF, which indicates that there are clear economic benefits to using the TNUDF as an intermediary. Better


                                                          - 9 -

monitoring of actual vs. projected project outcomes and assessment of economic returns as a funding criterion for
sub-projects would have been desirable, and this point will be followed more closely in the follow-on project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1) The TNUDF did not compute a financial rate of return for many of its projects, since debt service was often
funded out of tax revenues rather than specific user charges, and debt service capacity was their primary concern.
However, for two projects, the Karur Bridge and the Madurai Ring Road, debt service was to be funded out of
tolls, and thus performance was tracked by the TNUDF. In both cases, the FRR projected at appraisal was 18%. In
the case of the Madurai Ring Road, the actual revenues have fluctuated between 44% and 50% of projections,
indicating an unsatisfactory rate of return. On the other hand, the Karur bridge has achieved collections that are
nearly 70% of projections. In both cases, the hurdle rate of 14% FRR is not likely to be met unless there is
considerable improvement later. Both of these projects are indicative of the risks of PPP's in the Indian
environment. In both cases, projected tolls did not materialize due to resistance to paying tolls amongst the local
population.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1) The institutional development impact of this project is rated substantial. As noted in the discussion of the
DOs, the TNUDF has achieved a qualitative improvement in the intermediation services available to ULBs in
Tamil Nadu. In the early years of the project, the TNUDF achieved good financial results, broadly in line with
projections at appraisal, and exceeding them in one year. They have maintained strong repayment discipline
throughout. However, as noted earlier (para 4.1.11), while disbursements quickly exceeded projections in the early
years of the project, this momentum was not maintained past the mid-term review. Not only did disbursements
decline very substantially, many loans were prepaid, as another GoTN sponsored intermediary (TUFIDCO)
provided financing at more attractive terms to ULBs. As the balance sheet shrank, profitability suffered. If it had
not been possible to prepay the loans from GoTN without penalty, the impact on profitability could have been
much more serious. See Annex 8 Table 2 for a summary of TNUDF financial performance.

4.5.2) The massive refinancing of TNUDF's existing loans is largely attributable to the inflexibility of the pricing
formula (interest rates were reset only once every six months) and loan tenor used by the TNUDF (all sub-loans
had a 20 year tenor although the project documents only specified this as the maximum maturity) in a highly
liquid financial market. TUFIDCO was able to mobilize funding from commercial banks and then offer
refinancing on favorable terms to the ULBs. A Government Order in 2003 authorizing ULBs to avail themselves of
this facility gave momentum to the refinancings. This process has benefited ULB finances, but it is unfortunate that
TNUDF was neither able to seize this opportunity itself nor utilize the reflows that arose from the refinancing for
new lending to ULBs. However, GoTN has shown its commitment to revitalizing the TNUDF in recent months by
appointing a new CEO, addressing the conflicts between TNUDF and the CMA's office, and agreeing to a more
flexible pricing formula for TNUDF operations in the context of appraisal of the upcoming TNUDP III project. The
three PFIs have maintained their, admittedly modest, shareholdings, and the lead PFI, ICICI demonstrates interest
in seeing the TNUDF succeed.

4.5.3) With regard to details on the impact of the Institutional Development Component, please see the discussion
of DO1, paras 4.1.1-4.1.8.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1) As the capital market became highly liquid and interest rates came to decline rapidly over the course of
project implementation, this affected the project, both positively and negatively. Financial institutions across the
board were looking for new investment opportunities, so it was easier for the TNUDF to facilitate transactions that
brought finance to ULB projects from new sources. The presence of the grant fund for project preparation made it
easier to seize these opportunities by subsidizing the structuring of transactions. At the same time, the onlending
supported by the World Bank became less competitive in the declining interest rate environment.




                                                        - 10 -

5.1.2) The ruling of the Inland Revenue of Government of India against the tax exempt status proposed for the
fund had an important impact on the appetite of the PFIs for further equity contributions . Moreover, the shift in
mandate for the ICICI away from project finance, affected their appetite for co-financing.

5.1.3) The broader fiscal crisis that GoTN faced in 2001-2002 led to a reduction and interruption of devolutions to
ULBs. This clearly affected sub-project pipeline development.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1) GoTN allowed the TNUDF to avail of an intercept facility for recovering sub-loans in the line of credit
component made in support of a large GoTN sponsored ULB road resurfacing project that accounts for about $43
million of TNUDF disbursements, making it easier to manage this large set of subl-loans. This facility is also
available to other intermediaries upon request from GoTN. It is important to note that the TNUDF has performed
very well in recovering loans overall, not just those that used the intercept facility.

5.2.2) The decision to delay indefinitely implementation of the TNULB passed in 1998, due to stiff union
resistance to the provisions affecting public sector employment, sent a strong signal that the feasible pace of
decentralization would be slower than originally anticipated.

5.2.3) The decision to delay the revaluation exercise for property tax assessment purposes for the entire project
period, and now planned for after the elections in mid-2006, signaled strong hesitation to tax urban areas and to
bolster the ULBs most significant own revenue source. This action demonstrated, to financial markets among
others, how much ULBs depend administratively and financially on GoTN decisions.

5.2.4) The GoTN failure to appoint a permanent CEO during the better part of 2004 affected TNUDF's ability to
respond to important market developments during that time. This problem was recently corrected.

5.2.5) See para 4.1.11 regarding delays in technical sub-project approvals in the CMAs office. After about two
years of virtually no sub-project approvals, the GoTN stepped in to address the issue, which it has done recently.

5.2.6) See para 4.5.1-4.5.2 on the GO authorizing refinancing of TNUDF loans.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
No significant factors.

5.4 Costs and financing:
No significant factors.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely based on the strength of the IDC and the commitment to the TNUDF model.

6.1.1)Please see paras 4.5.1 and 4.5.2 on the sustainability of the TNUDF. The institution has maintained
reasonable profitability, and in the course of appraisal of TNUDP III has agreed to measures that will permit the
TNUDF to respond better to changes in the market.

6.1.2)Regarding the IDC, measures have been taken to institutionalize the progress made. The training program
has built up a skill base amongst the staff of a wide range of ULBs, and the CMA's office has issued orders that
there are to be no transfers of municipal accountants trained under the project before 2006 to ensure continuity in
the implementation of the new accounting system.

6.l.3) The sustainability under the Integrated Sanitation Component is less clear. The independent evaluation has
raised questions regarding long-term sustainability. As noted in para 4.1.15, a significant share of the facilities are
already not in working order or utilized fully.        A need for "foolproof systems for accounting and revenue



                                                         - 11 -

management to avoid leakage of revenues" has been identified. Only 52% of the CBOs in the municipalities and
20% in the TPs felt they had received all the support required of the ULBs. The performance of the CBOs in
collecting user charges is quite uneven. See para 4.1.15

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The PMU staff under the project has been moved into the CMA's office and its functions will be handled in the
CMA's office in the upcoming project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
This is rated satisfactory based on the strength of the line of credit component.

As noted in the section on quality at entry, the Bank developed a reasonable project design with the borrower,
building on earlier efforts to revamp the MUDF into the TNUDF. This concept proved its worth in the results that
the TNUDF was able to achieve. The design could have been more robust had the role of GoTN in both approving
ULB decisions and affecting the ULB revenue base been factored more clearly into project design. Moreover, given
the private management of the fund, more flexibility in pricing and terms might have been offered the TNUDF.
The IDC and ISP components would have benefited from more detailed technical preparation and clearer
agreement with the GoTN on the objectives and means of achieving them.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory

The Bank showed useful flexibility in addressing the issues related to the second covenant on equity contributions
from the PFIs, and in adopting the accrual accounting work launched by USAID in the IDC. It is unfortunate that
this covenant was such a preoccupation just at the time that so many other factors were affecting the project
pipeline and TNUDF's business prospects. More attention by the Bank to the many other issues that were masked
by the impact of the uncertainty regarding the second covenant might have prompted a quicker response to other
problems that were surfacing. Fortunately, these issues have come to the fore and are being addressed               as
preparation of the TNUDP III project proceeds.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory

GoTN was proactive and creative in the approach they took to the restructuring of the TNUDF, which was the
linchpin of the preparation of the TNUDP II.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory

The GoTN's support through implementation was uneven. In the early phase of the project, GoTN ensured that
implementation moved forward satisfactorily. However, later on a number of actions were taken that were
detrimental to the TNUDF, and which slowed implementation, as mentioned in paras 4.1.11, 5.2.2-5.2.6. As noted
above for the Bank, in the period after the mid-term review, while the GoTN worked proactively to resolve the
issues raised by the second convenant, the other issues affecting the project could have received earlier attention.
However, overall performance is rated satisfactory since the GoTN has taken steps to address these issues now.

7.6 Implementing Agency:



                                                          - 12 -

The TNUDF showed energy, creativity, and flexibility in implementing the project. The achievements as
highlighted in paras 4.1.9-4.1.10 are due in large part to the efforts of the TNUDF management and board.
Nonetheless it should be noted that the TNUDF appears to have become a victim of its own early success. More
openness with the Bank and a more vigorous presentation of the issues to the Board and GoTN may have prompted
a more expeditious resolution of the issues facing the TNUDF after 2001.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

1)       Experience under this project illustrated some of the limitations of partial private ownership to improve
municipal finances. The restructuring that created the TNUDF as an autonomous agency with partial private
ownership improved operational efficiency. The emphasis on mobilizing funds in private capital markets drove the
TNUDF to seek out opportunities to attract new types of funding for ULBs. But TNUDF's status did not
fundamentally change the constraints under which its clients operated. Due to the strong GoTN controls on ULBs,
in order to do business, the TNUDF still remained very much dependent on key decisions of the GoTN, in
particular the CMA, and on a good working relationship with them. Fortunately, the GoTN has, by and large,
supported the objectives of the TNUDF, and over time, some of the most serious problems have been resolved. The
emphasis on mobilizing private capital appears to have detracted attention from the difficulties in the operational
relationship with the CMA, and from addressing the declining competitiveness of TNUDF onlending.

2)       Decentralization is a process that is prone to reversals and decelerations. The State level reforms expected
at the beginning of the project did not materialize, but the project still achieved considerable successes. It is better
to design a project to be robust to the vagaries of decentralization, and address the issues that policy setbacks create
during implementation than to create a project that is premised on strong and continuous decentralization process
that is not likely to materialize.

3)       The ISP component would most likely have been handled much better in a stand-alone project or as part
of an operation involving more closely related issues. It appears that the disconnects between the GoTN's top down
project design and the CBO component as conceived by the Bank were not resolved either in preparation or
implementation.

4)       It has been noted by an external reviewer that the innovative transactions pioneered by the TNUDF have
not been succeeded by the creation of a framework that would permit a market for this type of transaction. For
example, TNUDF's origination and resale of its loans could be used as a model that could be developed to create a
secondary market in infrastructure loans. The Bank could add value in its promotion of private financing by
ensuring that this additional step is taken. Individual market players have no incentive to perform this role that is
of public policy interest.

5)       In implementing this operation, the TNUDF was stretched to meet the Bank's very detailed project
finance model, including economic and financial analysis, safeguard and fiduciary rules while operating within a
dynamic financial market servicing a large number of ULBs. Choosing between supporting market-driven
intermediaries or the detailed project finance model the Bank requires in credit operations might have led to better
results.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                             Official Borrower's Comments

                                      Borrowers Perception of TNUDP-II Project

                                                    IBRD LN 4478 IN




                                                         - 13 -

Tamil Nadu is the second most urbanized state in India. GoTN realizes that sustenance of urban growth is possible
only when the urban areas are provided with adequate infrastructure facilities. GoTN has been working with the
Bank for more than 25 years through four urban operations of which the last one, the TUNUDP-II came to a close
on 30th November 2004.

2.      The sectoral issues identified at the time of the appraisal of TNUDP-II as requiring attention were:

                 Need to strengthen financial, managerial, administrative and technical capacities of the ULBs;
                 Provision of long term funds required for instructure investments;
                 Putting in place a financial intermediary with expertise and experience in municipal financing.

3.      The above issues were considered by GoTN as requiring redressal. Hence GoTN worked with the Bank to
        create a suitable project structure and put in place implementation arrangements that have come to be
        considered as hallmarks in the design of such state wide urban interventions.

4.      The perception of GoTN on the impact of actions taken under the project are set forth below:

4.1     Institutional Development Component

        The Institutional Development component of the project has addressed several problems associated with
        the financial, managerial, administrative and technical capacity of the Urban Local Bodies, some of which
        are elucidated below.

        Municipal Accounting: Financial reporting in ULBs had been traditionally based on the single entry
        cash accounting system. This system of accounting did not allow proper recognition of the contingent
        liabilities of these entities. The project has successfully created a model by which shifting of the
        accounting system to more acceptable double entry book keeping system has been made possible. With
        computerization that has been part of the project design, the decision makers at the local level and at the
        state level are in possession of data more or less on a real time basis.

        E-governance initiatives: This project has lead to the creation of a sound citizen interface through the
        e-governance activities supported across the State. It is now possible to issue birth and death certificates,
        building permits, other licenses etc., with lesser delay. Websites created by several ULBs allow access and
        interaction with the entire world. The spin-off benefits of these initiatives are bound to be seen in the
        coming years. E-mails are used by the municipal administration extensively and communication has
        become more efficient. The availability of data on payment of taxes and charges by individual assess
        allows decision makers at the local level to keep tab of defaulters and improve compliance. The current
        collections which were around 65% at the time of beginning of the project have increased to 78%, which
        can be considered as a major success. The WAN connectivity with video conferencing facility created in
        the last leg of the project is expected to improve communications further and cut down the wastage of time
        and money associated with travel by municipal staff to attend meetings.

        Training and Exposure Programmes: There had been a broad thrust to train staff at all levels of
        municipal administration through a combination of classroom and field visits. This exposure has been
        useful in imparting both, knowledge and skills ad in engendering greater receptivity to new concepts and
        ideas. Tirunelveli Corporation has introduced a facilitation centre where it is possible for citizens to pay
        property taxes, electricity bills, obtain birth and death certificates, pay telephone bills etc. Namakkal
        Municipality has succeeded in introducing door to door collection of solid Waster with segregation at
        source. This municipality has achieved the status of' `Zero Garbage' town. The benefits of such major
        shifts cannot be quantified easily, but have been welcomed by the entire cross section of the citizens.
        Training has allowed municipal staff to effect changes in accounting system, improve their procurement
        skills, use computers effectively etc.




                                                          - 14 -

     Assistance in project design and implementation: the Grant Fund-II managed by TNUIFSL has
     assisted urban local bodies by appointing consultants for design and or supervision of projects, especially
     the more complex ones. Several prototype projects such as Alandur underground sewerage system,
     Tirunelveli Bus stand and the Madurai Inner Ring Road have been created through this facility.

     City Corporate Plan (CCP): Projects envisaged in several city corporate plans have not taken off so far
     and to that extent, the City corporate plans have not served the intended purpose within the end of the
     project period. However, the attempt itself has given an orientation to the stake holders in being able to
     plan for their cities and put them down in black and white for the first time. Further, the CCPs which
     have been prepared during the project period will continue to provide a valuable blue print for action
     under the successor project which we are expecting will follow. GoTN will look at ways and means to
     address the shortcomings in this exercise and create a model that can be successful in the future.

     Manuals and Engineering software: the rules and regulations governing the day to day functioning of
     various government departments are codified in manuals. The availability of these manuals ensure that
     staff are equipped to discharge the functions assigned to them. The project has funded the preparation of
     manuals such as Engineering, Accounting and quality assurance manuals which are excellent guidance
     material. The Engineering software which has been developed recently is expected to improve the
     productivity of the engineering staff in preparing estimates which are routine in nature.
4.2  Urban Investment Component
     The urban investment component has addressed the demand supply gap in core civic amenities and has
     assisted in creating assets worth $130 million through a combination of sources.

     Financial Intermediation: In the earlier years, Government of Tamil Nadu was incurring contingent
     liability on its balance sheet by way of guaranteeing the resources raised for funding municipal projects
     such as water supply, roads and buildings that were being executed through parastatal and state level
     agencies. There were no significant attempts to link either the project cash flow or cash flow at the urban
     local body level to that of the feasibility of project implementation. There was also no agency which made
     rigorous appraisal of urban projects and sanctioned loans of adequate tenor, so that the financial health of
     the local body is not hampered. With the constitution of TNUDF and its asset Manager TNUIFSL there
     has been a quantum change in the quality of appraisals and this is yet another benchmark for the country
     as a whole. TNUDF sanctioned projects have not so far turned as non performing assets and this is indeed
     reflective of the quality of appraisal. TNUIFSL has catalyzed other unique transactions such as
     implementation of projects on BOOT format, private participation in service provision, municipal bond
     issues etc. the participation of private financial institutions have been catalytic in bringing a professional
     outlook to the sectoral financial intermediation as a whole.

     Integrated Sanitation Program (ISP): Providing sanitation to the urban poor on a sustainable basis had
     been eluding the urban local bodies. Toilet blocks have been created with significant investments have
     gone waste and do not have a hygienic environment thereby defeating the very purpose for which they
     were created. TNUDP-II has created a sustainable model for sanitation in Urban areas with community
     involvement and the concept of user charges. So far 1245 sanitary blocks have been created across the
     state. This program has been immensely successful in the municipalities and corporations and has lead to
     further demand for provision of similar units.

     Viability of line of credit: there have been some problems in sustaining the line of credit for
     infrastructure projects due to the inability of the TNUDF to put up a timely response to the interest rate
     fluctuations in the market. The TNUDF's own portfolio was adversely affected towards the latter part of
     the Project. However, this setback does not challenge the basic soundness of the structures and principles
     which have been put in place and the lesson taken from this experience is that the Fund will need to be
     strengthened with greater flexibility and necessary corrective measures so as to be able to function more
     effectively in the successor project and beyond.




                                                      - 15 -

5.       Borrowers perception of the Bank's contribution: GoTN is of the view that the project has been
extremely useful in strengthening capacity within the Municipal system and in generating a momentum for
sustainable infrastructure projects. The Bank has been prompt in giving the requisite clearances and the
interactions with the Bank staff have always been professional and supportive. The appraisal missions have made
significant efforts in understanding the requirements of all the stakeholders and in responding to them in a timely
manner. GoTN is happy about the successful performance of TNUDP-II projects and expects to work with the
Bank in the repeater project TNUDP-III, with the objective of further bridging the deficit in financing municipal
infrastructure projects.



(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                       - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Improved financial management capabilities                                   Accrual accounting rolled out in all
by accounting systems and related capacity                                   corporations, municipalities, and town
building, audit compliance and resources                                     panchayats (now known as special village
generation by tariff revisions.                                              panchayats)
Improved technical and managerial                                            Improved performance in closing accounts,
capabilities                                                                 higher quality accounts due to accrual
                                                                             accounting
Improved service performance by                                              Initial draft of urban indicators study
Institutionalizing Benchamarking and through                                 completed, not used to benchmark servcies
surveys
Mobilizing resources for urban infrastructure,                               Para 4.1.16 provides details of several
sustenance of such funding and market                                        market transactions involving ULBs
access by at least two local bodies.


Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Urban Development Component                   19.8                           11.8
TNUDF Disbursements per fiscal year (US $
Million).
Urban Development Component                   107                            91.3
Cumulative TNUDF disbursements (US $
Million)
Integrated Sanitation Program                 249                            249
Number of targeted communities each fiscal
year


Integrated Sanitation Program                 1245                           1245
Cumulative number of targeted communities
Institutional Development Component           10                             2
Number of CCPs prepared and implemented
per year
Institutional Development Component           50                             11
Accumulative number of CCPs prepared and
implemented
Institutional Development Component           5                              3.5
Amount committed and disbursed (US
million) per fiscal year
Institutional Development Component           16
Accumulative amount committed and
disbursed (US million)
Institutional Development Component           33                             35
Training Program Completed (nos)

1End of project




                                                          - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Institutional Development Component
   - Capacity Building of ULBs                              11.50             8.43            0.73
   - Capacity Building of DMAWS                              0.25             0.28            1.12
   - TA for Bond Issuance                                    0.50             0.00               0
   - TA for Project Development/Implementation               5.00             2.64            0.52
   - Support to PMU                                          1.50             0.69            0.45
   - Unallocated                                             2.20
Total for Institutional Development                                                           0.57
2. Urban Investment Component
   - Line of Credit Sub-Component                          173.00          160.10             0.93
   - Integrated Sanitation Program Sub-Component            10.00           15.80             1.56
Front End Fee                                                1.05             1.05               1

Total Baseline Cost                                        205.00          188.99
                          Total Project Costs              205.00          188.99
                    Total Financing Required               205.00          188.99


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           99.00        13.00          45.00       157.00
                                   (0.00)         (74.00)      (7.50)          (0.00)      (81.50)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00         6.00          5.00         11.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (6.00)          (0.00)       (6.00)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        13.75          1.00         14.75
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (13.75)         (0.00)      (13.75)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         3.20          18.00        21.20
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.70)          (0.00)       (2.70)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.00           99.00        35.95          69.00       203.95
                                   (0.00)         (74.00)      (29.95)         (0.00)      (103.95)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other



                                                - 18 -

   1. Works                                0.00             114.25              3.12             63.23            180.60
                                          (0.00)            (72.65)            (1.80)              ()             (74.45)
   2. Goods                                                   1.27              2.67             0.00              3.94
                                          (0.00)             (1.27)            (2.67)              ()             (3.94)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              3.78             0.67              4.45
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.78)              ()             (3.78)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.00             115.52              9.57             63.90            188.99
                                          (0.00)            (73.92)            (8.25)            (0.00)           (82.17)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
      Borrower did not compile separate figures for Bank-financed procurement. The Bank-financed portion by procuremnt
      type was estimated based on appraisal estimates of proportion of costs to be financed by the Bank by procurement
      category.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Institutional              18.95         2.00                    11.10         2.10                  58.6     105.0
    Development


2. Urban Investments          85.00        98.00                    70.02        104.72                 82.4     106.9
front end fee                  1.05                                  1.05                               100.0




                                                          - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/2/1998                      TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SR. FIN. EXPERT (1);
                                             FIN. EXPERT (1); MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEER (1); CHARTERED
                                             ACCOUNTANT (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/23/1998              14     TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             URBAN SPECIALIST (3);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             RPOCUREMENT (2); FMS
                                             (1); FIN. EXPERT (1);
                                             CHARTERED
                                             ACCOUNTANT (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                             (1); URBAN FINANCE SPL
                                             (1); LCS SPL. (1)
              2/22/1999

 Supervision

              11/05/1999               11    TEAM LEADER/FINANCE (1);         S               S
                                             URBAN PLANNER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (2); INT. SANIT. PRO./ENV.
                                             (1); SOCIAL ISSUES (1);
                                             URBAN INDICATORS (1);
                                             TECH. & ENGINEERING (1);
                                             URBAN SPECIALIST (2);
                                             RESEARCH URBAN
                                             DEVELOP (1)
              11/07/2000                5    TASK LEADER/FINANCE (1);         S               S
                                             URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              11/01/2001               11    TASK LEADER/URBAN                S               S
                                             SPECIALIST(1); FINANCE (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);




                                              - 21 -

                                    SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                                    SPECIALIST (2) URBAN
                                    SPECIALIST (2)
                                    PROCUREMENT EXPERT (1);
                                    FINANCIAL MGT/DISBURES
                                    (1) ENVIRONMENTAL
                                    SPECIALIST (2)
               06/21/2002        7  SR. URBAN SPECIALIST (1);       S    S
                                    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                    SR.SOCIAL DEV. SPECIAL
                                    (1); CONSULTANT (2); SR.
                                    FINANCIAL MGT. SPE (1)
               12/16/2002        3  SR. URBAN SPECIALIST (1);       S    S
                                    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                    CONSULTANT (1)
               06/23/2003        11 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S    S
                                    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                    SR. SANITORY ENGINEER
                                    (1); SR. FINANCIAL
                                    ANALYST (1); CONSULTANT
                                    (2); FIN.MGT. SPECIALIST (1);
                                    SR. URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                                    FINANCE (1); LAND (1)
               11/23/2003        7  SR. URBAN SPECIALIST (1);       S    S
                                    SR. INFRA. FINANCL.SPE (1);
                                    INFRASTRUCTURE SPECIAL
                                    (1); SR.SOCIAL DEV.
                                    SPECIAL (1);
                                    ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALI
                                    (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                                    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1)
               05/31/2004        9  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S    S
                                    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                    ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                    (1); SR. SOCIAL DEV. SPECIA
                                    (1); SR. PROCUREMENT
                                    SPECIA (1); PROCUREMENT
                                    ANALYST (1); PROGRAM
                                    ASSISTANT (1); FINANCIAL
                                    MGT.SPECIALI (1)
               11/9/2004         11


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle        Actual/Latest Estimate



                                    - 22 -

                                         No. Staff weeks       US$ ('000)
 Identification/Preparation                                    87,889.92
 Appraisal/Negotiation                         36.10           193,759.05
 Supervision                                  217.71           664,019.80
 ICR
 Total                                        253.81           945.668.77


(1) Latest estimate figures include travel expenses as well
(2) Trust Fund usage of about US$145,929.11
(3) Actual expenditure on ICR is included in Supervision




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The report is based on the documents in the project file and studies delivered by the project.

1. Project Appraisal Document, Government of India, Second Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project,
World Bank Report No. 18400-IN, April 28, 1999
2. Loan Agreement, July 14, 1999
3. Project Agreement, July 14, 1999
4. TNUDF Project Agreement, July 14, 1999
5. Project Implementation Plan, October 23, 1998
6. Project Supervision Reports
7. Aide Memoires and Back to Office Reports
8. Periodic Progres Reports




                                                   - 26 -

     Additional Annex 8. Additional Tables referred to in the text

              TABLE 1:SERVICE LEVELS BEFORE AND AFTER IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECTS,
                                                SANCTIONED BY TNUDF


S.No.           Name of the municipality          Sector                                 Service Levels

                                                                             Before                               After

   1 Ambattur                                  Roads                     34.25 Kms. Earthern /WBM                 34.25BT

                                               Water supply              9 lpcd                                 50 lpcd

   2 Avadi                                     Roads                 2.05 kms Earthern /WBM                    2.05 kms BT roads

                                               SWD                           0 Nil                             2.48 kms

   3 Alandur                                   UGD                  No System                          System connecting16000 HH

     *(Project designed and developed by TNUDF)

   4 Chennai

     Napier Bridge                             Bridges           Single bridge                           Double bridges

     Widening of lattice bridge                                       two lane                                 four lane

     Pedestrial subway at ezhiagam                          Pedestrian crossing                                 Subway

     Reconstruction - vehicular bridge

     Vehicular subway - saidapet                                Level Crossing                                     RUB

     MKB Bridge across B.canal                                              Nil

     Choolaimedu- bridge across b\cooum                             Causeway                            Highlevel Bridge

     Bridge at Naduvankarai -I & II                                         Nil

     Pedestrial subway - Rattan bazaar                      Pedestrian crossing                                 Subway

     Pedestrial subway - Perambur                           Pedestrian crossing                                 Subway

     Sir Pitti Thiagaraya Auditorium                                        Nil




                                                           - 27 -

  Name of the municipality Sector                                   Service Levels

                                                      Before                              After
5 AUA water supply         Water Supply                lpcd                            lpcd
  Alandur                                                30                              59
  Pammal                                                 13                              18
  Anakaputhur                                            14                              30
  Ullagaram                                             9.6                              34
  Porur                                                  10                              62
  Valsarawakkam                                           2                              56
  Maduravoyal                                             8                              46
  Meenambakkam                                           20                              83
  Coimbatore Electric
6 Crematorium              Crematorium         Conventional                         Electric
7 CBE                      SWM                            2 dumper placers     additional 12dumper placers
                                                    with 20containers              with 200containers
                                           640 MT / 800 MT carrying capacity       800 MT carrying capacity
8 Cumbum                   Bus stand            No facility                       Bus stand


9 Dharmapuri               Roads                 6.23 wbm                              5.68BT
                                                                                       0.55CC
                           Drains                         0 kms                       4.425kms
                           Street lights                150 MV lamps                    150 SV lamps
                                                                                        200 tube lights
                           SWM                            2 lorries                       4 lorries
                                                         19 push carts                    2 power tillers
                                                                                          1 jeep
                                          17.70 MT / 30.70
                                                        MT carrying capacity      30.70 Mtcarrying capacity




                                                - 28 -

   Name of the municipality    Sector                                Service Levels

                                                       Before                                 After
10 DTP                     Public                        236Dry latrines                   236Pour flush
                           Toilets                                                             toilets
11 ECCI                    BOT bridge   Old bridge unsafe for Vehicular Traffic Bridge acrossRiver Amaravathi
12 Erode                   Bus Stand                      73bus bays                        99bus bays
                                                                                      2 floorsshopping complex
                           Off complex         Ground floor                         first floorconstructed
                                                                                   New daily
                           Shops           Dilapidated dailymarkets                   markets


13 Gobichettypalayam       Bus bays &                     25bus bays                        40bus bays
                           shops                          nil                               15shops
                           Roads &                      13.3WBM                           13.3BT
                           Drains
                           Bridge
14 Karaikudi               SWD                            nil                           11.11kms


15 Karur                   SWD                        15.299 Kutcha                    15.299 Pucca
                           Roads                       5.255kms WBM                     5.255BT
                           SC at old BS
                           SWM                             3lorries                          5lorries
                                                           4ML                               2trippers
                                             22 MT / 27 MT carrying capacity           27 MT carrying capacity
                                                                                Generator for
                           Generator                                                        ws
                           for WS                                                beneficiaries78410 HH
                           Water tanker                    0                                 3tankers
                                                existing 51.5Lpcd              increased to 70lpcd




                                                      - 29 -

   Name of the municipality    Sector                              Service Levels

                                                      Before                            After
16 Kumbakonam              SWM                            5minilrres                   1tractor with trailer
                                                          1Lorry                       1mini lorry
                                                        24bullock carts                1sullage tanker
                                                                                      20auto tillers
                                           31.5 Mt / 52 MT carrying capacity      51 MT carrying capacity
                                           Old, unhygienic(fish & Veg.
                           Markets                 marketsMarkets)           New markets
17 Madhavaram              SWM               2 ML + 1 lorry                            6lorries
                                           10 MT out of 25
                                                   MT/daycarrying capacity     25 MT /daycarrying capacity
                           Street light               1434nos                      1931tube lights
                                                                                       2Mercury vapors
                           Roads                     15.627 WBM                   15.627 BT
                           SWD                          5.7kms                      39.7kms
                           Roads                       2.37WBM                      2.37BT
                           Drains                       nil                        0.725kms
                           WS                           nilconnections             2500connections
                                                      22.33lpcd                    26.67lpcd
18 Madurai                 Bridge               Causeway                          Bridge
19 Maduravoyal             SWD                          nilkms                      3.35kms
20 Nagercoil               WS vehicles                    2tankers                     5tankers
                           SWM-vehicles                   5lorries                     5lorries
                                                          2mini lorries                5mini lorries
                                                          2tillers                     2tillers
                                          30 MT/80 MT perCarrying
                                                        daycapacity            80 MT /dayCarrying capacity
                           Sewerage                       0sullage tanker              1sullage tanker




                                                    - 30 -

   Name of the municipality    Sector                                Service Levels

                                                       Before                              After
21 Pallavaram              Roads                    8.3 kmsWBM                      8.3 kmsBT
22 Pallikaranai            WS                            Nil                         2 OHT3 lac litres cap.
23 Porur                   Electric                          traditional            Electric
                           Crematorium                       grave yard        Crematorium
                           SWD                            nil                      5.65 kms
24 Rajapalayam             WS                          8941HH connections            23941HH connections
                           SWM                             5lorries                       3ML
                                                           5bullock carts                 2tractors withtippers
                                                                                          1jeep with trailor
                                                                                          2sullage tankers
                                          43.25 MT/ 63.25 Mt
                                                        /daycarrying capacity 61.25 MT /daycarrying capacity
                           Streetlights                2977                            3621
                                                             community
                           Sanitation                     26toilets                      70community toilets
                           Roads                  65.84 kmsWBM & BT               65.84 kmsBT
25 Srivilliputhur          WS                             nil                             1tanker
                                                       5000HH                          7000HH
                                                          nil                         OHT4000 ltrs. capacity
                           SWM                             3mini lorries                  3mini lorries
                                                                                          1lorry (6 T)
                                          22.5 MT/33.25 MT
                                                        /daycarrying capacity 33.25 MT /daycarrying capacity
                           Street lights                  50tubelights                   50SVLamps
                           SWD                          535metres cutcha                535metres pucca
                           Sanitation                      0                              6community toilets
                                                           3dry latrines                  3pour flush latrines




                                                     - 31 -

TABLE 2: SUMMARY OF TNUDF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN RELATION TO TARGETS


 FY                                                    99-00    00-01      01-02     02-03       03-04
 Yearly Disbursements                     Projected        92         89        83          97         85
 (Rs. Crores)                             Actual           56        219        20         2.5       50.9
 Cumulative Disbursements                 Projected      111         200       283        378         463
 (Rs. Crores)                             Actual           76        295       339       341.5      392.4
 Profit before provisions for taxes (Rs.  Projected      26.6       32.2      30.2          32         36
 Crores)                                  Actual         21.4      24.04      33.4          25         19
 Net Profit/Net Worth (%)1                Projected      13.4       14.8        13          13       13.9
 (Return on Equity before taxes)          Actual         15.3       13.4     16.78        12.6       9.39
 Net Profit/Average Assets (%)            Projected       5.9        5.6       4.7         4.2         4.2
                                          Actual          5.7        4.4         6         3.7         2.8
 Loan Recovery Rate (%)                   Projected        84         90        90          95         95
                                          Actual           99        100     99.75        99.9       98.8
 Debt Equity Ratio                        Projected       1.5        1.7       1.8         2.2         2.3
                                          Actual          1.3        1.7      2.18        2.63      1.382
 Debt Service Coverage Ratio              Projected       2.4          2       1.5        1.42       1.42
                                          Actual          2.9        2.4      1.43        1.28       1.92




1Taking into account taxes paid, the return on equity would be 5%
2 TNUIFSL reports that as of January 2005, the debt-equity ratio is approximately 0.73, indicating further
refinancing and prepayment to the GoTN.




                                                      - 32 -

- 33 -

   Table 3: Summary of ISP Component Costs and Units Built


                   Category of the ULB (Cost Rs. In Lakhs)                                Total
                   Corporations          Municipalities        Town Panchayats
   TNUDP II                    625.00                2275.40                    1310.40       4210.80
   ULB                         225.00                 444.60                       0.00        669.60
   GoI/VAMBAY                  400.00                1280.00                      561.60      2241.60
   Total                      1250.00                4000.00                    1872.00      7122.00
   No.of units                    125                    400                        720          1245




Table 4: Summary of Sectorwise Distribution of Approvals supported by the Line of Credit under
the project

Sector                                   Approvals as     Total Bank
                                         of project       Disursements for Line
                                         closing          of Credit ($ M) at
                                                          closing

Roads                                               77%
Sewerage                                             1%
Water Supply                                         8%
Solid Waste Management                               1%
Others[1]                                           13%
Total                                         100%               $61.5 [2]

[1] Small urban investments -- Street lighting, waste collection equipment, storm water drains etc
[2]Amounts approved at closing exceed actual disbursements.
The breakdown for actual disbursements by sub-projects corrected for undisbursed amounts is not available.




                                                   - 34 -

- 35 -

