Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18400-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONNA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$105 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND TAMIL NADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 28, 1999
Infrastructure Operations Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY
EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1, 1998)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs)
RS.1.0 = US$0.023
US$ = Rs.43.0
I Lac= 100,000
I Crore= 10 million
- FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOOT         Build Own Operate Transfer
BPL          Below Poverty Line
BT           Board of Trustees
CA           Constitutional Amendment
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBO          Community Based Organizations
CCP          City Corporate Plan
CMC          Chennai Municipal Corporation
DMAWS        Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply
ESR          Environmental and Social Report
FIs          Financial Institutions
GIS          Geographical Information System
GO           Government Order
GOI          Government of India
GOTN         Government of Tamil Nadu
GF           Grant Fund
HDFC         Housing Development Finance Corporation
HUDCO        Housing and Urban Development Corporation
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICICI        ICICI Limited
ID           Institutional Development
lDC          Institutional Development Component
ISP          Integrated Sanitation Program
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
MUDF         Municipal Urban Development Fund
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGOs         Non-Government Organizations
NLC          Non-Lending Category
OLC          On-Lending Category
PMR          Project Management Report
PMU          Project Management Unit
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
SFC          State Finance Commission
TA           Technical Assistance
TNUDF        Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund
TNUDP        Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project
TNUIFS       Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Ltd.
TNULB        Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies
TNIUS        Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies
TNUITC       Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Trust Company
UIC          Urban Investment Component
UISR         Urban Infrastructure Services Review
ULB          Urban Local Bodies
Vice President:              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:            Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:              Frannie Humplick
Task Leader:                 Hiroaki Suzuki



India
Second Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ........................................................... 3
I . Project development objective and key performance indicators ................................................3
B. Strategic Context ............................................................3
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project ............................................................                           3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .............................................5
C. Project Description  Summary ............................................................6
1. Project components ............................................................6
2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ...................................................6
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................8
D. Project Rationale ............................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...........................................................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .....................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ........................................................  11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...........................................................     11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................................................                                 12
E.  Summary Project Analyses ........................................................... 13
1. Economic ........................................................... 13
2. Financial ...........................................................                                                                   13
3. Technical ........................................................... 14
4. Institutional ...........................................................                                                               15
5.  Social ........................................................... 16
6. Environmental assessment ...........................................................                                                    17
7.  Participatory  approach ........................................................... 17
F.  Sustainability and  Risks ...........................................................                                                  18
1.  Sustainability ...........................................................                                                             18
2. Critical risks ........................................................... 18
3. Possible controversial aspects ...........................................................                                              19



G. Main Loan Conditions ............................................................                                                                19
1. Effectiveness conditions .............................................................                                                           19
2. Other ............................................................                                                                               19
H. Readiness for Implementation ............................................................                                                        20
I.  Compliance with  Bank  Policies ............................................................                                                    20
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary ............................................................                                                        21
Annex  2.  Detailed  Project Description ............................................................                                               23
Annex  3.  Estimated  Project Costs ............................................................                                                    35
Annex  4.  Economic Analysis of Urban Investment Sub-Projects .............................................. 36
Annex 5. Financial Summary ............................................................                                                              37
Annex 6. Procurement and Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ................ 42
Table A.  Project Costs by  Procurement Arrangements ............................................................ 52
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  .                                                .......................................... 53
Table C.  Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds ............................................................                                            54
Annex  7.  Salient Features of the Urban  Sector Reforms in Tamil Nadu ...................................... 56
Annex  8. Project Processing  Budget and  Schedule ............................................................                                      58
Annex  9.  Documents in Project File ............................................................                                                   59
Annex  10. Statement of Loans and  Credits ............................................................                                             60
Annex  11. Country  at a Glance .............................................................                                                        64
Map No.: IBRD 30091



India
Second Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project
(TNUDP II)
Project Appraisal Document
Infrastructure Operations Unit
South Asia Region
Date: April 28, 1999                               Task Leader: Hiroaki Suzuki
Country Director: Edwin R. Lim                     Sector Manager: Frannie Humplick
Project ID: INPE50637    Sector: Urban             Program Objective Category: Economic Managemenit
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan         Program of Targeted Intervention:   I   Yes  [X] N
Project Financing Data                     [X] Loan        [] Credit      [  Guarantee      [  Other
[Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 105
Proposed terms:                               [   Multicurrency     [x] Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 5          []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed           [x]   LIBOR-
based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%, less any
waiver
Front-end fee: 1%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                Local           Foreign         Total
Government/ULBs                                                    50                0              50
TNUDF                                                              25                0              25
IBRD                                                               92.45            12.55          105
Fls                                                                25                0              25
Total         192.45            12.55         205
Borrower: India
Guarantor:
Responsible agencies:
Institutional Development Component (IDC): Project Management Unit (PMU) established within the Department of
Municipal Administration and Water Supply (DMAWS) of the Govemment of Tamil Nadu (GOTN); and Tamil Nadu
Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Ltd. (TNUIFS).
Urban Investment Component (UIC):
Line of Credit Sub-Component: Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF) (TNUDF/ TNUIF collectively referred to
as the TNUDF): and ICICI Limited (ICICI), Housing Development Finance Corporation (HDFC) and Infrastructure
Leasing & Financial Services Limited (IL&FS) (ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS collectively referred to as the participating
Financial Institutions/Fls)
Integrated Sanitation Program (ISP) Sub-Component: PMU established within the DMAWS.
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                 2000      2001      2002      2003      2004
Annual          31.2      25.9       16.2     18.1       13.6
Cumulative          31.2      57.1      73.3      91.4       105



Page 2
I
For Guarantees: Not Applicable.                           [    Partial Credit    [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                      []    Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 5 years Expected effectiveness date: July 31, 1999 Expected closing date: November 30,
2004



Page 3
A.      Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1).
The project development objective is to improve urban infrastructure services in Tamil Nadu in a sustainable
manner. This objective will be achieved through:
(i) strengthening the managerial, financial and technical capacities of Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), through an
institutional development program, in line with the urban sector reforms which the GOTN is implementing
following the passage of the 74th Constitutional Amendment;
(ii) mobilizinig resources for basic urban infrastructure investments costing about US$183 million (water supply,
sewerage and sanitation, solid waste management, roads, transports, storm water drains and street lighting, etc.); and
(iii) securing sustainable funding sources for the urban infrastructure investment, through TNUDF and municipal
bond issuance, beyond the Bank's line of credit operations.
B.      Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 1724-IN       Date of latest CAS discussion: February 18, 1999
The project supports the CAS objective to help urban local bodies (ULBs) build their institutional and financial
capacity. This will enable ULBs to deliver services and perform the new functions assigned to them as a result of
the recent 74th Constitutional Amendment. This amendment, which promotes a comprehensive process of urban
sector reform, includes: (i) introducing enabling legislation for decentralization and liberalization; (ii) improving
financial and administrative management of ULBs; and (iii) increasing the urban resource base through improved
taxation, user-charge collection and a rule-based efficient system of resource transfers which replaces the present
discretionary and unpredictable system.
The Bank's urban operational strategy, prepared on the basis of recent sector work' and in consultation with our
Indian partners, established several principles to be applied to Bank-supported urban operations. The objective and
concept of the proposed project are consistent with these principles, described below:
(I) Leveraging Bank resources to support reform and new approaches (strategic and selective approach)
In the context of the implementation of the 74th Constitutional Amendment, Tamil Nadu is considered a front
runner in urban sector reforms. The Bank has been supporting urban sector reform in Tamil Nadu for more than 20
years through three urban operations. Under TNUDP I, the GOTN established the Government-owned Municipal
Urban Development Fund (MUDF), the most successful component of the project. Building on the MUDF's
success, the GOTN converted the MUDF into the TNUDF with private capital and management participation
(Attachment I of Annex 2). The TNUDF is the first public-private joint financial intermediary in India, specializing
in municipal financing without State Government guarantees.
(2) Support for building local capacity and gradualism
Institutional development of ULBs is one of the central objectives of the proposed project. The package of
assistance would be flexibly designed and implemented, taking into account the different capacities of ULBs.
World Bank, India-Urban Infrastructure Services Review, Report No. 16178-IN, May 5, 1997



Page 4
(3) Chanllneling the flow of investment funds (increased reliance on private finanicial institutions)
The project would support further development of the TNUDF and encourage the Fls to increase urban sector
financing at their own risk. The project would promote private sector capital inflows for urban infrastructure
investment and assist the TNUDF and selected ULBs in raising funds from the capital market.
To achieve the above mentioned CAS objective, a development fund for urban infrastructure investment and
municipal service improvement is proposed as the instrument for the Bank Group's assistance. In the Bank's urban
operational strategy, support to the TNUDF is specifically mentioned as a possible option to encourage private
financial institutions to increase their risk sharing in TNUDF-financed projects. In addition to the US$12 million
unit share contribution to the TNUDF, the Fls have agreed that they will mobilize US$25 million through co-
finiancing to finianice sub-projects under the proposed project and will assist the TNUDF in raising an additional
US$25 million from the capital market by underwriting or guaranteeing the TNUDF's debt or by providing other
credit enhancement/risk participation mechanisms acceptable to the Bank.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The major challenges in the urban sector are to reduce the huge backlog of infrastructure investment and to
improve basic urban service delivery in terms of both quantity and quality. For example, water supplies vary
from 34 liter per capita per day (lpcd) in town panchayats to 74 lpcd in corporations, service levels
significantly below the norm of 90 Ipod in Tamil Nadu. Only 57% of the population in corporations, 32% in
municipalities and 16% in town panchayats have access to safe sanitation. Less than 50% of the roads are
equipped with storm water drains. It is estimated in the Tamil Nadu State Finance Commission Report that
Rs. 4,810 Crores (US$1.1billion) would be required to undertake the necessary investment in core urban
infrastructure facilities (water supply, sewerage and sanitation, solid waste management, roads, storm water
drains, street lighting) during the period 1996 - 2001. The prevailing climate of under-investment is a result of
regulatory constraints which impinge on the effectiveness of resource mobilization for urban infrastructure
financing. Some of the causes include unpredictable and discretionary government resource transfer systems,
weak financial accountability, inappropriate property tax assessment, inadequate user charge levels, and poor
billing and collection systems. Weak managerial and administrative capacities of ULBs, lack of long-tenn
finanice and few options for intermediation of municipal finance have also contributed to the situation.
On the policy front, the GOTN is undertaking major urban sector reforms to promote financial and functional
devolution to ULBs. The Government's strategy is to empower ULBs by recognizinig their constitutional
governance through the enactment of laws, and by transferring additional financial resources to them in a more
predictable manner, while holding them accountable for the delivery of minimum service requirements. The
State Finance Commission's (SFC) recommendations on the devolution of funds have been enacted through
two Government Orders, both dated May 2, 1997. Those pertaining to the augmentation of municipal
revenues such as user charges, have been incorporated in the Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Bill (TNULB
Bill). The Bill was approved by the State Legislative Assembly in November 1998. Amendments to the
system of property tax assessment and collection are contained within the Bill. (Annex 7- Salient Features of
the Urban Sector Reforms in Tamil Nadu).
Despite the additional resources being channeled to ULBs as a result of the 74th Constitutional Amendment of
1993, available financing remains far below required investment needs. The GOTN is assisting ULBs in
leveraging their limited resources, which enables them to undertake larger investments, by providing them
with long-term financing through the TNUDF with participation of the Fls. The GOTN also aims to increase
private capital inflows to the urban sector through TNUDF bond and municipal bond issues, as well as through
the promotion of BOOT operations. By introducing market discipline into urban infrastructure investment,
which has historically been financed from the public budget, Government intends to induce ULBs to improve
their creditworthiness, while improving the overall quality of urban investment and service delivery.
Substantial financial and functional devolution represent both an opportunity and a risk for ULBs. Most ULBs
do not have sufficient administrative and managerial capacity to handle these new responsibilities. The



Page 5
TNULB Bill and SFC recommendations recognize the importance of strengtheninig the capacity of ULBs in
urban service delivery.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices.
(I) Old and inadequate legislation governing the ULBs
The TNULB Bill has replaced and consolidated the separate and archaic legislation governing municipal
corporations and municipalities, and includes provisions for the town panchayats. Under the old
legislation, the responsibilities of ULBs with respect to urban service delivery were not clearly defined.
The ULBs often did not possess adequate administrative power and the required financial resources to
deliver the needed urban services. The Bill promotes the decentralization process and endows ULBs with
appropriate functional responsibilities and the required finances to meet them.
(2) Weak financial, managerial, administrative, and technical capacities of the ULBs
The Institutional Development (ID) component of the proposed project would help the GOTN to strengthen the
institutional, financial, managerial and technical capacities of ULBs through a comprehensive program of
technical assistance. This would include training programs for elected officials, municipal officers, and other key
stakeholders from civil society. The project would also encourage the ULBs to outsource and/or privatize some
of their functions, such as solid waste management. To ensure that such reforms are sustainable, the ID
component will also support a management audit of selected ULBs to develop a phased program of institutional
reform on staffing and personnel policies, and streamlining of systems and procedures to improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of urban service delivery. The clarification of roles between the ULBs and line agencies with
direct responsibility for aspects of urban service delivery within municipal jurisdiction will be another focal point
for study. The ID component will also assist about 50 of the largest ULBs in developing a City Corporate Plaii
(CCP), covering a 5-year period. The plan will be developed through a consultative process involving key
stakeholders who, together, will formulate a vision for the city's future development. On this basis, a 5-year
capital investment program consisting of high priority items will be developed in support of this long-term vision.
(3) Lack of long-term funds required for urban infrastructure investment
Those urban infrastructure investments which are not commercially viable should be financed against the
general revenue streams of ULBs. In order to meet the huge investment requirements, these limited general
revenue resources should be leveraged by debt financing. Urban infrastructure investments, whose benefits
often span for several decades, require long-term financing. Equity considerations suggest that the financial
burden imposed by such investments should be borne by all taxpayers who stand to benefit from these
investmenits over the long-term. However, long-term financing for urban infrastructure investment is not
currently available in India, with the exception of the limited debt financing of Housing and Urban
Development Corporation (HUDCO/100% Central Government-owned financial institution) and Life Insuranice
Corporation of India. The project addresses this issue by providing long-term financing through the TNUDF.
The project also encourages the FIs to increase their lending in the urban sector, while at the same time helping
the TNUDF and selected municipalities raise resources from the capital market.
(4) lack of finanicial intermediaries with expertise and experience in municipal financing
The project aims to further strengthen the TNUDF, which is the only financial intermediary with the
participation of private capital and management that specializes in municipal financing in India.
Although some private financial institutions have indicated their interest in urban financing, none of them
are ready to enter into this new market in a major way because: (i) the private sector is generally reluctant
to become involved in the urban sector, citing potential political risks; (ii) it is extremely difficult to
assess the financial position of municipalities due to lack of credible accounting and financial reporting
systems; (iii) development of most of projects by municipalities will require active support and
cooperation at the State government level, as the fiscal viability of the municipalities generally depends



Page 6
upon the support of State governments in the form of tax and revenue sharing; and (iv) project
identification, loan processing and supervision are costly as the average loan size is small and they require
frequent contacts with municipal clients who are not familiar with project preparation, project
management and loan financing.
Given these constraints, the FIs consider Tamil Nadu as the best place to enter into this new market since:
(i) the GOTN is implementing the urban sector reforms which will enhance the creditworthiness of
municipalities; (ii) a financial intermediary in the form of the TNUDF is already in existence with private
managemenit and capital, which has become fully operational and has demonstrated its initial success; (iii)
the FIs highly value the Bank's catalytic role and technical assistance in developing new urban financing
schemes; and (iv) the Bank's involvement provides safeguards against the potential political risks. The
success of the TNUDF would encourage other private financial institutions to enter into the new
municipal financing market. In this sense, the TNUDF is an important operation in municipal financing,
not only for Tainil Nadu, but also for the whole of India.
C       Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component               Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)  financing
Institutional Development:           ID             20.95      10.2       18.95     90
(i) Capacity Building of ULBs                       (11.5)     (5.6)      (10)     (87)
(ii) Capacity Building of DMAWS                     (0.25)     (0.1)     (0.25)   (100)
(iii) TA to TNUDF/ULBs in                            (0.5)     (0.2)      (0.5)   (100)
issuling bonds:
(iv) TA to ULBs for project                         (5.0)      (2.4)      (5.0)   (100)
preparation and implementation
(v) PMU's incremental operation                     (1.5)      (0.7)      (1)      (67)
costs
(vi) Uinal located                                  (2.2)      (1.0)      (2.2)   (100)
Urban Investments:              Investment           183       89.3       85        46
(i) Line of Credit through TNUDF                    (173)     (84.4)      (80)     (46)
(ii) Integrated Sanitation Program                  (10)       (4.9)      (5)      (50)
for the targeted urban poor
Front-end Fee:                                       1.05       0.5      (1.05)   (100)
Total         205       100      105         51
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(1)     MlOunicipal autonomy: In November 1998, the Tamil Nadu State Legislature approved the Tamil Nadu
Urban Local Bodies Bill (TNULB Bill) which devolves to ULBs appropriate functional responsibilities and the
required financial resources to meet these responsibilities. The GOTN has issued several orders to implement major
reforms such as the financial devolution from the State to ULBs (Annex 7).
(2)     Municipalfinancial management: At the state-level, Tamil Nadu has taken the lead in preparing a revised
accounting manual for all local bodies, which will support the introduction of a computerized accrual-based
accounltilng system. Computers have been provided to the ULBs through the Grant Fund under TNUDP I.- A
software company has been engaged by the TNUIFS to develop accounting software based on the revised manual.
The GOTN has requested the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to review the accounting manual.



Page 7
The GOTN has introduced incentives to improve ULBs' financial management by budgeting for a grant which will
be allocated based on their financial performance. This effort will be further supported under the proposed project.
(3)     Municipal resource enhancement: The resource base of the ULBs would be strengthened by the following
measures:
(i) increasing the collection ratio of existing taxes and user charge: The GOTN intends to apply stricter
penalties for the non-payment of taxes and user charges. The GOTN has introduced disincentives against
lengthy court litigation on property tax disputes. The Coimbatore Corporation has significantly increased
its collection of property taxes by introducing a self-declaration and payment system. In addition, the
computerization of its property records has led to more transparent procedures for tax assessment and
reporting and has led to a quantum leap in property receipts. These are some of the initiatives to be
disseminated to other ULBs under the project.
(ii) broadening the resource base (property tax reform, revision of non-tax revenues such as user charges
and license fees): Currently, Coimbatore calculates their property taxes by taking into account the carpet
area of the building, location, use, and presence of amenities. The Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Bill
applies this reform to all other cities State-wide. On water supply charges, unlike many other States in
India, the Urban Local Bodies Bill allows ULBs to raise their fees based on their own judgement without
having to obtain State clearance.
(iii) devolution offunds from the State to the ULBs: The GOTN has devolved Rs. 240 Crores to ULBs
from the State revenues and envisages a gradual increase in this allocation with commensurate
improvement in local capacities. Unlike some other States, where the use of such funds is targeted to
State-identified capital projects and related O&M, municipalities in Tamil Nadu have greater autonomy
over the use of such funds. As such, this is in keeping with the intent and spirit of the 74th Constitutional
Amendment.
(4)     Capital investment planning: The project will assist selected ULBs in preparing city corporate plans
(CCP) and associated capital investment plans. Two pilots are underway in Coimbatore Municipal Corporation, and
Tiruppur Municipality. Broad-based consultations have been initiated involving key stakeholders, including
municipal officers, elected officials, and representatives from professional groups, NGOs, and business and
industrial groups in each city. The GOTN intends to issue a Government Order making it mandatory for all
municipal corporations and larger municipalities to prepare, implement, and review such plans on a regular basis.
The Government Order would also describe the city corporate planning process, including the consultation
processes, and institutional roles and responsibilities.
(5)    Administrative and managerial capacity at local level: The GOTN proposes that the project undertake a
managerial review of selected municipal corporations and municipalities. This study would look at the existing
management structure and human resource management policies with a view to making recommendations in order
tc attract and retain qualified staff. The managerial, administrative and technical capacities of the ULBs will be
strengthened through a sequence of institutional development programs aimed at improving project preparation,
procurement, implementation, operation and maintenance capacities (Annex 2 and the Project Implementation
Plan). Some avenues to be explored include recruitment of professionals from the open market either directly or
through firms on a contract basis for a specified period of time. The GOTN will examine the possibility of
providing minimum tenure for the State cadre of commissioners, in such a way that their promotion will not be
made contingent upon the transfer of post. The GOTN has been carrying out the process of open recruitment for
chief executive officers of smaller ULBs.
(6)     Land use planning: There is a need to clearly identify the roles and planning functions which can be
undertaken by line departments and those which should be decentralized to municipalities as part of the 74th
Constitutional Amendment. For this purpose, a study of the roles and planning functions will be undertaken under
the ID component, and the recommendations of this study would be implemented during the project period.



Page 8
(7)     Financial intermediation: The TNUDF would be strengthened, as the finalncial intermediary specializing
in municipal financing, to such a level where it can generate resources from the capital market. To achieve this
objective, a group of rating agencies and investment banks will help the TNUDF develop and implement specific
action plans and financial performance targets so that the TNUDF can issue its first debt instrument within the life
of the proposed project. The same approach would be applied to selected municipalities with the aim of raisilg
resources from the capital market.
(8)     Private sector participation in service provision: In July 1997, GOTN amended the Tamil Nadu State
Toll Act to allow ULBs and entrepreneurs to levy and collect toll. As a result of this new regulation, the Karur
Municipality was able to reach closure on a toll bridge project on a BOOT basis. The project will work towards
outsourcing and/or privatizing certain urban services such as solid waste management. An enabling regulatory
environlment will be created to promote private sector participation in infrastructure investment and service delivery.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is expected to bring about economic, health and environmental benefits to Tamil Nadu's urban
population, including its low-income segment representing more than 25% of the state's total urban population,
throughl improvements in the quality, quantity and sustainability of urban services in participating ULBs.
(I)     Benefits in the water supply and sanitation sector would include increased hours of water supply service,
more equitable supply across different areas in each participating municipality, higlher water pressure making
currenit practice of pumping directly from the mains unnecessary; and broader access to sanitation facilities,
includinig in the slums, higher standards of cleanliness and reduced water pollution. Broader access to adequate
water supply on a reliable basis would also benefit industrial consumption thus supporting economic development.
The Integrated Sanitation Program sub-component will target those areas in participating municipalities without
access to sanitationi, or are least serviced at present , where generally the poorest section of the population reside;
(2)     Benefits of the solid waste management sub-projects in participating municipalities would include a higher
standard of cleanliness, bringing with it reduced risk of disease, especially in slum areas. In sub-projects which
include transforming refuse into marketable compost, there would be measurable increases in income among the
participating houselholds; and
(3)     Benefits arising from road/bridge/storm drainage/street lighting construction and improvement sub-
projects would create conditions for a higher standard of road transportation service with concomitant lower vehicle
operating costs; improved storm water drainage will lengthen the life of the roads it serves and will reduce damage
to properties adjacent to road rights of way thus reducing maintenance costs of affected structures; improved street
lighting will contribute to the reduction in road accidents and provide safer conditions for pedestrian movement
during the hours of darkness.
The project is also expected to generate benefits in the form of improved institutionlal performance both with respect
to the operation and maintenance of urban services and the ability of some ULBs to access capital markets. In the
case of the former, institutional capacity for improved O&M will contribute to the sustainability of urban services in
the jurisdiction of the participating ULBs. In the case of the latter, direct access to capital markets offers potential
for a more transparenit, market-based relationship to develop and for a better chance of enforcing a hard budget
constraint between levels of government.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(1)     The Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply (DMAWS) will assume overall
responsibility for the urban sector reform as well as the responsibility for the implementation of the Institutional
Development Component (IDC) and the Integrated Sanitation Program sub-component. A Project Management
Unit (PMU) will be established within DMAWS to carry out the TA and training programs for the ULBs and
DMAWS itself and to manage the implementation of the grant-funded Integrated Sanitation Program (ISP). The



Page 9
PMU will be headed by a Project Director and staffed with professional specialists who will be recruited from open
market. During the course of project implementation, the responsibilities of the PMU will be gradually transferred
to DMAWS and thie Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies (TNIUS) (Annex 2).
(2)     The Tamnil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF) and the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial
Service Limited (TNUIFS) will be responsible for the implementation of the Line of Credit sub-component of the
Urban Investment component. The TNUDF was established in 1996, based on the Government-owned Municipal
Urban Development Fund (MUDF) with capital participation of three private financial institutions (lCICI, HDFC
and IL&FS/Fls) (Attachment I to Annex 2). The TNUIFS is a private fund management company established by
the Fls and the GOTN. The TNUDF, the main financing vehicle under the project, will be managed on a day-to-day
basis by the TNUIFS under the terms of a management contract. The GOTN has selected ICICI Limited (ICICI) as
the lead Financial Institution (FI) partner of the TNUIFS. Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS) and
the Housing Development Finance Corporation (HDFC) are other participating Fls. Lending policies and
procedures to be adopted by the TNUIFS have been defined and agreed with GOTN (Attachment 2 to Annex 2).
The TNUIFS will also administer a Grant Fund which will finance the preparation and implementation of proposed
sub-projects to be funded under the project and by other sources of finance.
(3)     The administration of the TNUDF is entrusted to a Board of Trustees (BT) nominated by GOTN and the
participating finanicial institutions. The board has been incorporated as the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Trust
Company (TNUITC)2 and, as such, approves the business and financial plans proposed by the TNUIFS.
(4)     Borrowers, including ULBs, Statutory Boards and private investors in the State of Tamil Nadu, would
submit applications for sub-project financing to the TNUIFS in a prescribed format. After pre-screening by the
TNUIFS to ensure the eligibility of the applicant, the proposed investment would be subjected to a detailed
appraisal which would examine the technical, economic, financial, legal, social and environmental aspects of the
proposed undertaking. After appraisal, the sub-project would be sanctioned by the relevant authority, (CEO of the
TNUIFS, Board of the TNUIFS or the TNUITC, depending on the value). The TNUDF will finance the cost of
civilI works, services, goods, and materials. The TNUIFS would monitor the implementation of the sub-projects, for
whichi Borrowers would be required to submit regular progress reports. The TNUIFS would reserve the right to
suspend/cancel loans under specific conditions relating to sub-project or Borrower performance. All sub-projects
would be the subject of post-implementation evaluations.
D.      Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
T'he alternative project design was to direct investment financing through government departments and statutory
boards responsible for urban development. This option was rejected for the following reasons: (i) the financial
intermediary approach facilitates the involvement of a large number of ULBs and relatively small, numerous sub-
projects; (ii) the performance of government departments and statutory boards under TNUDP I was mixed; (iii)
direct investment through the government budget on a project-by-project basis does not usually provide an
institutionally and financially sustainable framework for future urban investment; and (iv) private sector
participation in the financing and management of urban investment will become increasingly critical.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned)
2 The TNUDF is a trust fund according to the Indian Trust Act. The trust fund requires the trustee who accept the Trust Deeds
with powers, inter alia, of receiving contributions, loans and other assets on behalf of the TNUDF. Trustee can be individual or
corporate. In case of TNUDF, the trustee is TNUITC.



Page 10
Sector Issue                          Project                 Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Improvement of Urban Management       Tamil Nadu Urban Development             S               S
Capacity and Support Basic Urban      Project I (Cr.1923-IN. completed on
Investment                            Sep. 30, 1997)
Karnataka Urban Services and
Municipal Strengthening Project
(planned)
West Bengal Urban Infrastructure and
Municipal Development (planned)
Gujarat Municipal Institutional
Strengthening & Urban Infrastructure
Dev. Project (planned)
Improvement of Urban Transport        Mumbai Urban Transport
(planned)
Provision of Water/Sewerage/Solid Waste   Hyderabad Water Supply Project (Cr.  S               S
facilities and improvement of the related    2115-IN/Ln. 3181-IN)
sector policies
Madras Water Supply Project II (Ln.
3907-IN)                                 S               S
Bombay Sewage Disposal Project (Cr.
2763-lN/Ln. 3923-IN)                     S               S
Chennai Water Supply III (planned)
Hyderabad Urban Water Supply TI
(planned)
Calcutta Water Supply, Sewerage and
Drainage Project (planned)
Improvement in living conditions of the  Mumbai Urban Rehabilitation Project
urban poor/slum improvement           (planned)
Promotion of Private Infrastructure   Private Infrastructure Finance
Investment                            (IL&FS) Project (Ln. 3992-IN,            S                S
ongoing)
Other development agencies
USAID                                 Financial Institutions Reform and
Expansion Project (FIRE I)
(completed) FIRE II (ongoing)
Asian Development Bank                Karnataka Urban Development
Project (ongoing)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 1 1
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
(1) Major urban policy reforms are essential in order to improve the financial performance and
administrative/managerial capacity of the ULBs. (Bank's urban sector operational strategy in India)
(2) The State Government is primarily responsible for the formulation and implementation of urban policy,
as well as regulatory and institutional reforms. The comparative advantage of financial institutions and
private investors lies in the areas of project identification, development and appraisal. Thus, Government and
financial institutions/private investors play complementary roles. The Government's sound urban policy
would promote private entry in the urban sector in terms of both urban infrastructure investment and service
delivery. This realization contributed to the rationale for restructuring TNUDP I in which the Government-
owned Municipal Urban Development Fund (MUDF) was converted into the TNUDF, the latter being an
autonomous financial intermediary outside the Government.
(3) The sobering experience with urban lending in India has been the Borrowers' lack of absorptive capacity.
In that context, it is understandable that when the Bank provides financing to any municipal corporation, the
latter is unable to utilize the funds on time. Generally speaking, most past urban development projects were
both too large and too complex for the limited planning, engineering and implementation capacity of both
States and local governments. A much larger portfolio of smaller, less complicated projects would have been
both more likely to succeed and in the worst case scenario, more amenable to downsizing with the associated
demonstration effect (Urban Infrastructure Services Review Report/UISR)
(4) Successful financial intermediation requires a pool of creditworthy borrowers and strong intermediaries.
Improving urban management and, in particular, strengthening public financial management standards, are
important steps in enabling municipalities to access funds either indirectly, through a financial intermediary,
or directly, through municipal bonds. Fundamentally, effective institutions are required at the city level, with
accrual basis accounting and financial management systems, independent auditing procedures, multi-year
capital and operating budgets, transparent procurement systems, adequate financial reporting mechanisms,
appropriate administrative systems to control personnel expenditures, and accountable local officials backed
by reasonably satisfied taxpayers (UISR).
(5) The Bank needs to be highly selective about where it operates. More up-front actions by the Borrower
during preparation are needed to demonstrate its commitment and to give impetus to the change process when
a minimum of policy reform and institutional improvement is critical to project success. The TNUDP I was
most successful in policy reform and good practice, where the GOTN support for the objectives was greatest
(UISR/TNUDP I ICR).
(6) Further improvement of the quality of Indian public engineering is important for successful project
implementation (UISR).
(7) The low-income population represents more than 25% of the urban population. It is important to address
the poverty issue through appropriate project design and the inclusion of a specific project component, such
as the Grant Fund, which finances the sub-projects targeted to the urban poor (TNUDP I ICR).
(8) A demand-based approach, important for the success of the sanitation program, requires that implementing
agencies find out what potential users want and what resources they are willing to apply to finance and manage
installed systems. There is a need to design systems, financing mechanisms, and support structures that are best
suited to their needs. User participation makes services and service providers more responsive and accountable to
beneficiaries (Toward a Strategic Sanitation Approach-Albert M. Wright).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
(1) Tamil Nadu is one of the most advanced states in terms of implementing the provisions of the 74th
Constitutional Amendment. Following the recommendations of the State Finance Commission, the GOTN has



Page 12
effected the financial devolution from the State to ULBs in 1997/98. Tamil Nadu State Legislative has approved
the Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Bill (TNULB Bill) to implement further decentralization. At the local level,
the city of Coimbatore has introduced important reforms to improve overall efficiency and promote greater
transparency and responsiveness to citizen demands. It is in the process of installing a Management Information
System (MIS) for all its departments. It has computerized the property records system, leading to large increases
in property tax collection (Rs. 6 Crores in 4 months); instituted a Citizens' Charter, stating the duties and rights of
citizens and services of a municipal corporation; reduced its establishment cost to the level among the lowest in the
country; and improved its grievance monitoring system.
(2) The GOTN accepted the concept of the City Corporate Plan (CCP) and has agreed to apply the CCP to about 50
of the larger ULBs. The cities of Coimbatore and Tiruppur have prepared the draft CCPs.
(3) The GOTN has successfully implemented the restructuring of TNUDP 1, in which the Government-owned
Municipal Urban Development Fund (MUDF) was converted into an autonomous financial intermediary, the
TNUDF, with private capital and management participation. The TNUDF has become fully operational and is
poised for further development. The TNUDF has already identified pipeline sub-projects and is assisting the ULBs
in developing sub-projects for the TNUDF financing as well as BOOT operations, wlhich could be financed jointly
with private investors.
(4) The FIs have committed US$12 million as their unit share contributioni to the TNUDF. In addition, the FIs have
agreed to mobilize US$25 million in the form of co-financing of sub-projects of the TNUDF. They have also
agreed that they would assist the TNUDF in raising an additional US$25 million from the capital market by
underwritinig or guaranteeing the TNUDF debt or by providing other credit enhancement/risk participation
mechanisms acceptable to the Bank. The ICICI is supporting the TNUDF by seconding key management staff.
Other FIs are extending technical support to the TNUDF oi0 a project by project basis.
J. Value added of Bank support in this project:
(1) The Bank has been associated with the GOTN in urban sector development for more than 20 years and through
tlhree urban operations (MADRAS I, MADRAS II, and TNUDP I). As a result, the Bank has obtained invaluable
practical insights through the gradual evolution of these operations. As Tamil Nadu was ahead of the 74th
Constitutional Amendment, the GOTN and the Bank were able to anticipate the effects of the Amendment and
gradually develop and implement several urban sector reforms through existing urban operations. As a result of
earlier innovations, the GOTN was ready to accept new project principles and the design of the proposed project.
(2) In particular, the establishment of the MUDF and its conversion into the TNUDF, which specializes in
nluilicipal financing in TNUDP I, are fruitful results of the collaboration between the GOTN and the Bank.
Althouglh the TNUDF has demonstrated its initial success, it is still a new institution which requires strong and
contilLuous support from the Bank. The Bank could cointribute to the development of innovative urban finalncilng
programs, as demonstrated by the creation of the TNUDF. The proposed project would consolidate the TNUDF's
performance and support its evolution into a self-sustaining finanicial intermediary, whichl could link the ULBs to
the capital market.
(3) The Bank's experience in urban sector reforms and urban financing in India and other counitries has been
brought into the project design. In particular, the GOTN appreciates the Bank's assistance in the institutional
development of the ULBs. The TNUDF is keen on learning new approaches to financing urban infrastructure, such
as BOT and BOOT. The recent urban sector client survey related to TNUDP I indicates that: (i) the Bank's
performance in the identification/preparation phase, the implementation and supervision phase, and sectoral and
ainalytical work were all evaluated as satisfactory to very good by most of the respondents; and (ii) the respondents
viewed the Bank as a strong organization, a reliable partner, and good at giving policy advice anId providing sectoral
analysis.



Page 13
(4) Through the preparation of the urban sector work "Urban Infrastructure Services Review", the Bank has
deepened its insight on urban sector issues and learned various lessons which have been incorporated into the design
of the proposed project.
(5) The Bank's involvement has provided and continues to provide comfort to the FIs and other private investors for
investment in the TNUDF as well as the TNUDF-financed sub-projects.
(6) The Bank together with other development agencies such as USAID, could contribute to the development of the
municipal credit market through assistance in the issuance of TNUDF and municipal bonds.
(7) The Bank could help the GOTN/TNUDF obtain/mobilize financial and technical resources from other
development agencies to support the GOTN's urban sector reforms and the TNUDF's lending activities.
(8) The Bank is also providing valuable support to the TNUDF in dealing with environmental and social issues, as
well as introducing efficient and transparent local comnpetitive bidding procedures.
E.      Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Economic (Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: ERR= 12% at least for sub-projects costing over US$500,000 with quantifiable
benefits;[x] Cost Effectiveness Analysis.
Individual sub-projects will be evaluated by either cost-benefit analysis or cost effectiveness analysis. In the case of
cost-benefit analysis, each sub-project should yield an ERR of at lest 12%, which is the opportunity cost of capital
in India. Cost-benefit analysis will not be applied to sub-projects with non-quantifiable benefits or sub-projects
costing less than US$500,000. Cost effectiveness analysis is applied to these projects to ensure the use of the least
cost design and technology.
2. Financial (Annex 5)
(1) Financial Rate of Return: Revenue earning sub-projects on a non-recourse financing basis (i.e. debt services
are secured only by sub-project revenues) should yield at least a FRR of 14%.
(2) The TNUDF's financial situation and performance: The TNUDF's audited financial statement for the years
1996/97 and 1997/98 are shown in Annex 5. The main features are:
(i) Profit before proposed distribution in 1997/98 (FY 98) was Rs. 19.5 Crores, up Rs.5.9 Crores or 43% from
1996/97 (FY 97).
(ii) The significant ratios, with comparatives for FY 97 in parenthesis, are as follows: return on average assets- 6.4
% ( 5.5%); return on equity- 15.3% (10.7%); debt/equity ratio- 1.4 (1.2); and debt service coverage ratio
(DSCR) -2.1. (4.24)
(iii) The increased profits were due mainly to an increase of 63% in investment income resulting from improved
yields, from 9.6% to 12%, on investments.
(iv) Taking investment income into account, the net interest margin (ratio of interest earnings to interest expenses)
in FY 98 was 2.1% compared with 2.7% in FY 97. However, the final net surplus in FY 98 was helped by the
non-provision in the TNUDF's accounts for doubtful loans of the MUDF, whereas in FY 97 (until the transfer
to the TNUDF and earlier), provision was made in the MUDF's accounts.
3To evaluate a meaningful comparison of the figures for FY96/97 and FY97/98, the result of MUDF and TNUDF have been
consolidated for FY96/97.



Page 14
(3) Projection of the TNUDF's financial performance: The TNUDF's projected financial statements are presented
in Annex 5. The following highlights its major points:
(i) 1998/99 - There is a slight decrease of Rs.0.5 Crores (or 2.5%) in net income before distribution compared with
FY 98 due mainly to: an increase in interest expenses while the corresponding increase in interest income is lower,
and the start of provisioning for the TNUDF's doubtful loans. However, the principal financial ratios are all
satisfactory as follows: return on net worth - 12.9%; debt/equity ratio - 1.3; and DSCR - 3.3.
(ii) 1999/2000 - 2003/2004. Disbursements of about Rs. 447 Crores are forecasted for the five-year period of the
proposed project. Significant ratios during the period are as follows:
1998/99     1999/00    2000/01     20001/02        20002/03   20003/04
Net profit/Net     12.9         13.2       14.6         12.8           13.1        13.7
wortlh
Debt/Equity         1.3         1.5        1.7          1.8            2.2         2.3
Ratio
DSCR               3.3.         2.4        1.9          1.5            1.4         1.4
(iii) The above figures show that profitability continues to be good, with the results showing improvement in FY
2000/2001 mainly due to a high disbursements on some large projects. Returns on net-worth are maintained at a
very satisfactory level. The increase in borrowing raises the debt-equity ratio modestly from I 1.3 in FY 98/99 to 2.3
in FY03/04. Meanwhile, DSCR drops from 3.3 in FY 98/99 to 1.4 in FY03/04 due to increased borrowing and
repayments coming due on the MUDF borrowing. The ratios, however, are satisfactory.
(iv) The forecast has been extended to 2007/08 to show the TNUDF's continued profitability and its ability to
service the borrowing (Annex 5). Return on net-worth improves gradually and reach 18%. The debt-equity ratio
also improves after the project period and comes down to 1.4 by FY 08, while DSCR improves to 1.7.
(4) Fiscal impact.
(i) At the macro level: the fiscal impact at the macro level would be negligible since the funds being on-lent
throughl the project represent a direct transfer of resources from the State to the TNUDF.
(ii) At the city level: the project supports financial and institutional reforms to improve the performance of ULBs.
A major source of local revenues is property tax. Property tax reform, which changes the basis for calculating the
Annual Rental Value (ARV) to include carpet area and location, is included in the Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies
Bill. If the property tax system was amended to include a factor of location in the assessment formula, there could
be a potential increase in revenues. This, however, would-take time to quantify silce Coimbatore has adopted this
clhange. What would be more significant is an increase in the revenues from property taxes resulting from
improvements in the efficiency of collection due to computerization, increased transparency in assessment, and
overall better urban management.
3. Technical:
(I) At the ULB level: Most of the small projects are technically simple and do not involve complicated engineering
issues. However. most of the ULBs, particularly the small- and medium-sized ULBs, do not have adequate
techniical capacity in project design, implementation, procurement and contract management, and operations and
maintenance. This shortcoming would be addressed by adapting the size, scope and technology of sub-projects to
the absorptive capacity of the ULBs, by phasing in the implementation of a project, and by providing the ULBs with
technical assistance and training. The adoption of the Bank's procurement guideline by the ULBs together with the
technical assistance in this areas would help the ULBs improve the technical quality and economic efficiency of
the proposed investments.



Page 15
(2) The TNUIFS Level: The TNUIFS has adequate project development and appraisal capacity as demonstrated in
the past operations. However, this capacity would need to be strengthened as the TNUIFS begins to lend for more
complicated medium- and large-sized urban projects, such as solid waste management, water and sewerage,
sanitation, toll roads and bridges. These projects would require expertise on the regulatory and institutional
framework, as well as on the technical aspects. Following the recommendations of the Bank, the TNUIFS has
already recruited two experienced technical and sector experts (a sanitation engineer and a civil engineer). It has
also recruited two procurements experts.
4. Institutional.
(1) Executing agencies:
(i) The DMAWS will assume oversight responsibility for urban sector reforms as well as the responsibility for the
implementation of the Institutional Development component and the Integrated Sanitation Program sub-component.
However, the DMAWS does not have adequate staff with the knowledge and experience to implement the
Institutiolnal Development component, given its intensive program and comprehensive approach which requires
various specialized technical skills. This problem would be addressed by installing the Project Management Unit on
a transitional basis, which would consist of highly specialized staff who will be recruited from the open market.
The GOTN has appointed the Director of the PMU and selected other staff. The functions of the PMU will be
gradually shifted to the DMAWS and the TNIUS during project implementation.
(ii) The TNUDF and TNUIFS: The TNUDF and TNUIFS were established in 1996, as a result of the restructuring
of TNUDP 1 (Attachment 1 of Annex 2), and are responsible for the implementation of the Line of Credit sub-
component of the Urban Investment Component. They have demonstrated satisfactory performance records since
their establishment in November 1996 (TNUDP I/ ICR). Their future challenge is to cope with their rapid growth,
while ensuring the quality of lending and its sound financial management. The TNUIFS and the Bank have agreed
on the TNUIFS's staffing plan which ensures its adequate project implementation capacity. Its staffing plan is in the
project file.
(2) Project management:
(i) Institutional Development Component: As explained in para C.4, the Project Management Unit (PMU) headed
by the Project Director and staffed with experts,4 recruited from the market, will manage the institutional
development component.
(ii) Urban Investment Component: The TNUDF and TNUIFS will manage the line of credit sub-component of the
urban investment component. As mentioned above, they have developed adequate institutional and operational
capacity in order to manage the urban investment component. The ULBs will implement the sub-projects to be
financed by the TNUDF. Substantial financial and functional devolution represents both an opportunity and a risk
for the ULBs. The PMU will manage the Integrated Sanitation Program (ISP) with support from a group of the
Community Development Window of the Slum Clearance Board, NGOs and consultanits. Each of the ISP sub-
projects will be implemented by ULBs with participation from the NGOs and/or the Community Based
Organization, under the supervision of the PMU.
(3) Financial Management (Project Financial Management System/FMS):
The financial management systems for the project involve two categories: an on-lending category (OLC); and a
non-lending category (NLC). This categorization is based on the nature of the funds (loan and grant) rather than the
components of the project which are described in para. C-i. The OLC consists of the Line of Credit sub-component
The outside experts include: Senior Financial Controller, Assistant Accountant, Senior Administration /Procurement Officer,
Engineering/Infrastructure Expert, Financial Specialist, Info Technology Specialist, Urban Development Specialist, Training &
Development Specialist, Environment Engineering & Public Health Specialist, and Coordinator of ISP.



Page 16
of the Urban Investment component which is in the form of a loan. The NLC consists of the Institutional
Development component and the Integrated Sanitation Program sub-component of the Urban Investment
component, which are in the form of a grant. The following summarizes the project FMS and its details are given in
Annlex 6.
(i) The OLC will be implemented by the TNUDF/TNUIFS which will set up a Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) Unit to manage the arrangements under the supervision of the Vice President, Finance. The Unit
will be staffed with two additional officers.to be recruited, one of whom will be an experienced accountant Several
actions have been and are being taken to strengtlhen the TNUDF/TNUIFS's internal control system. These include:
(a) additions to overall staffing with special attention to the effective segregation of duties (especially in the finance
section), procurement, and the monitoring of sub-project implementation by the Projects wing (completed); (b)
installation and implementation of a modem financial information system (to be completed by loan effectiveness);
(c) formalization of the TNUDF's investment policy (completed); (d) amending the lending policy statement and
requiring sub-borrowers to have as a minimum, accounting and financial management systems to produce
information and reports on the implementation performance of the project being financed (completed); (e) the
appointment of an internal auditor (completed); and (f) the appointment of two officers to manage the new LACI
Unit (completed). In addition, steps are being taken to audit the accounts of sub-projects with costs above a certain
threslhold.
(ii) The NLC will be implemented by a new PMU (see para C 4). A chartered accountant lhas been appointed to
head the finance section. One of his primary duties will be to prepare a financial management manual (TOR are in
the project file) and install a new financial management system for the NLC covering the following topics:
organization and staffing for the financial management function; internal control mechanisms; flow of funds;
accounting including chart of accounts; budgeting and budgetary control; and auditing of the project accounts. The
Finanicial Management System and Manual will be in place by loan effectiveness.
(iii) Bank funds for the Project will be routed through the GOI (which will open a Special Account with RBI) to the
GOTN which would then on-lend the OLC funds to the TNUDF and, together with its owIn contributions, pass on
the NLC funds as a grant to the PMU. The PMU will retain it's share of the NLC funds and pass on the rest to the
sub-im-nplementers who will supplement these with their own and, where applicable, other participants'
contributioiis.
(iv) During the first year of the project implementation, the disbursement procedures based on direct payment and
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be adopted. From the second year, disbursements under the project for
both the OLC and the NLC will be made under the LACI framework and would be based on quarterly Project
Management Reports. The audit of the TNUDF and of the OLC project accounts will be done by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The auditor of the PMU will be an independent firm of Chartered Accountants
acceptable to the Bank. In addition, the accounts of the sub-implementers of the NLC will also be audited by
indepenident auditors. Model TORs for the audits of Project Accounts are in the project file.
5. Social:
(1 ) The proposed investments in urban infrastructure will have direct and positive benefits on the social and
physical environment, in a sustainable manner, for the urban local bodies (ULBs) of Tamil Nadu. The
proposed investments will provide improvements to the provision of safe drinking water, sanitation facilities,
road and transport systems, etc. Furthermore, the proposed Integrated Sanitation Program (ISP) will produce
positive benefits in the form of safe disposal of excreta, sullage and waste material by improving overall
health conditions. These will translate into wider social and environmental benefits over the life of the
project. The future pipeline consist mostly of relatively small municipal infrastructure projects which will
have only moderate social adverse impacts. However, some of the sub-projects (road, water supply and
storm-drainage) could have social impacts related to resettlement.



Page 17
(2) Under TNUDP 1, an Environmental and Social Report (ESR) was prepared by the TNUDF/TNUIFS and cleared
by the Bank in January 1997. The ESR sets out the social and environimental policies and operating procedures to
be followed by the TNUDF/TNUIFS in appraising, financing and implementing sub-projects. They are consistent
with the Bank's relevant policies. Regarding the social impact, the ESR classifies sub-projects into three categories
(S I major impact, S2 moderate impact, and S3 no impact) and requires project proponents to comply with the
requirements set out for each category. The ESR also defines the entitlement framework for project affected
persons, in the case of involuntary resettlement. The operational audit of the ESR practices under the TNUDP I has
been undertaken by an independent consultant. This audit report has been reviewed by the Bank and the application
of the ESR process was found to be satisfactory. The measures to further improve the ESR.process have been
discussed and agreed upon during appraisal. In case of category SI projects, a detailed social assessment including
resettlement action plans (RAPs) will be prepared to address the mitigation measures. Each sub-loan for a sub-
project which is classified as SI will be submitted to the Bank for approval.
6. Enviroimnental assessment.    Environmental Category [x] B Financial Intermediary
(I ) The project will directly contribute to the improvement of the environmental situation in the urban areas by
providing basic infrastructure, including solid waste and sanitation facilities, storm drainage and water supply
facilities. Potential negative environmental impacts of sub-projects should be identified and mitigated through the
process of the ESR. Some of the sub-projects, like sanitary landfills and sewerage schemes, will require careful
analysis of environmental impacts prior to design and construction of these facilities. As mentioned above in para
5, the ESR provides detailed operational procedures and guidance on sub-project identification, preparation,
assessment, appraisal and implementation and management of environmental and social risks. Based on the
magnitude of environmental impacts involved, sub-projects are classified into three categories (El major impact, E2
moderate impact, and E3 no impact) and the necessary mitigation actions will be included in the sub-project design.
Assessment and studies will be done to recommend suitable mitigation actions. This includes the preparation of a
sub-project specific EA report for El projects. Each sub-loan for a sub-project which is classified as El will be
submitted to the Bank for approval. The ESR is consistent with the Bank's OD. 4.01. As mentioned above, the
result of the ESR operation audit was discussed during appraisal and measures to further improve the ESR process
were also agreed upon.
7. Participatory approach:
(I) Since the municipal elections in October 1996, the ULBs have started to engage in active dialogue with the
citizen representatives through the municipal councils and other key stakeholders, such as NGOs, professional,
business and industrial groups. The training program that has been provided and that will continue to be provided
by the project in the future, includes special programs for the elected mayors, council members, and representatives
of NGOs and other key stakeholders.
(2) The Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Bill provides for the publication (preferably in newspapers) of the budget
of municipalities which would clearly identify the subsidy element for each urban service, and the groups actually
receiving the subsidies. It also proposes publishing the proposed municipal development works, and progress
achieved towards their implementation. The project supports the GOTN's efforts to improve transparency and
accountability in municipal governance. Towards this end, the project would encourage the annual publication of
the financial (revenues and expenditures) records, including audit reports, of municipalities, as well as their
performance vis-a-vis measurements and indicators to be developed with the Government and the community.
(3) An important part of the ID component is to assist the ULBs with the preparation and implementationl of their
City Corporate Plans. Through such a Plan, city residents will develop a shared vision for the future and identify
the key issues facing the city in the short, medium, and long-term. By providing clear directions for the future,
priorities can be established through a consultative process, and investment financinig decisions made in the context
of their desired future consequences. This process would make the ULBs' investment financing decision process
transparenit and contribute to the improvement of the govemance of the ULBs. The project will develop wvith the
GOTN/ULBs and communities a participatory approach and timetable, which will begin with the identification of
city-wide issues, followed by consultations with planning partners/stakeholders (elected officials, municipal



Page 18
officers, community and professional groups, business/industrial community, and line agencies with jurisdiction
over some aspect of municipal service delivery), and lead to the drafting of the actual Plan. The final version of the
Plan would be approved and passed by the Municipal Council and be made available to the public at venues such as
libraries, government offices, etc. The Plan will be revised regularly, and the Council will prepare an annual report
on progress with the implementation of the Plan, including proposed development works. This will be supported by
community surveys on specific services, which will be done on a regular basis. During the process of project
preparation, two cities have been selected as pilots: Coimbatore Municipal Corporation and Tiruppur Municipality.
The city corporate plans of these two ULBswill be used as models for other cities, with modifications to fit local
circumstances. The GOTN intends to issue a Govemment Order making it mandatory for all municipal
corporations and larger municipalities to prepare and implement such plans on a regular basis. The Project will
encourage the GOTN to publish the status of Plan preparation and implementation for all the ULBs State-wide.
(4) Under the Integrated Sanitation Program sub-component, NGOs will actively organize community based
beneficiary groups at both construction and operation/maintenance stages.
F        Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(I) Urban sector reforms currently underway have created and will reinforce the enabling environment to
improve the financial, managerial, administrative, and technical performance of the ULBs, ultimately turning
them into creditworthy and well functioning entities. The project would further support these policy-based
reforms and capacity building of the ULBs.
(2) The project would further strengthen the financial performance and institutional capacity of the TNUDF, and
help the TNUDF become a sustainable financial intermediary which could raise resources from the capital
market. It would also help the ULBs become creditworthy entities which could have access to the financial
intermediary and/or the capital market.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                          Risk Ratin  Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
- Timely development and implementation of viable pipeline  M     -systematic project identification through City
sub-projects.                                                     Corporate Plan process
-provision of TA under ID Component
-training of ULB staff
-Communities' willingness to participate in the Integrated  M     - adopt demand-driven approach from large number of
Sanitation Program.                                               potential communities
- use the existing Community Based Organizations and
NGOs for organizing communities for the ISP
-develop ULBs' ownership of the reforms through City
-ULBs' strong commitment to the reforms.                   M      Assessment and City Corporate Plan development
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
- ULBs' commitment to the urban sector reforms in general and  M  -conduct adequate consultation with ULBs and involve
their assignment of qualified staff to implement the ID           them in project design and development
component and to develop sub-projects for TNUDF financing.
Overall Risk Rating                                       M



Page 19
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Currently, none of the identified sub-projects in the pipeline involve resettlement. In addition, due to their
small size, most of the sub-projects are expected to have only a moderate social impact. However, in the future,
TNUDF could finance sub-projects that involve resettlement and there could be a modest risk that the project
affected people would not accept the compensation scheme and refuse to be resettled. This risk could be mitigated
through the effective application of the ESR approach in the selection and preparation of sub-projects.
G      Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
* The GOTN and the TNUDF will sign the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
* The GOTN will develop the Financial Management system and prepare the Financial Management
Manual for the PMU, acceptable to the Bank; and
* The TNUDF/TNUIFS will introduce and implement a new financial information system before
effectiveness. This requires satisfactory completion of at least one-month's operation of the system in
parallel with the old system, and the full implementation of the system which should be certified by a
specialized independent agency, satisfactory to the Bank, in the area of the financial management
information systems.
2. Other:
By August 31, 1999:
*  The GOTN will endorse the implementation arrangements for the Integrated Sanitation Program and
issue a relevant Government Order for establishing the demand-based, participatory and partnership
approach for provision of sanitation facilities for below the poverty line communities;
*  The GOTN will recruit a suitable NGO as a partner organization to the PMU for the implementation of
the Integrated Sanitation Progran sub-component;
*  The GOTN will develop the operating guidelines, procedures and relevant documentation satisfactory to
the Bank; and
*  The GOTN will appoint a coordinator of the Integrated Sanitation Program who will be selected by
GOTN in consultation with the Partner Organization.
By March 31, 2000.
The TNUDF shall draw down the remaining balance of the FIs' unit share contribution, Rs. 38.6 Crores.
Covenant related to the TNUDF and the FIs 'financial contribution:
* By such date that the aggregate of the disbursement for the Line of Credit sub-component from the Bank
loan shall have reached US$40 million, the TNUDF shall mobilize, an aggregate of at least US$25
million for its sub-project financing whether by issuing securities underwritten or guaranteed by the FIs
or supported by other credit enhancement/risk participation mechanisms acceptable to the Bank and/or
through co-financing arrangement with the FIs as well as the Fls' additional unit share contribution. In



Page 20
the case of co-financing, the FIs' contribution can be considered materialized when the FIs commit their
resources by signing the loan agreements for the co-financed projects.
* By such date that the aggregate of the disbursement for the Line of Credit sub-component from the Bank
loan shall have reached US$60 million, the TNUDF shall mobilize, an aggregate of at least US$50
million for its sub-project financing whether by issuing securities underwritten or guaranteed by the Fls
or supported by other credit enhancement/risk participation mechanisms acceptable to the Bank and/or
through co-financing arrangement with the Fls as well as the Fls' additional unit share contribution. At
least US$25 million of such mobilization shall be through co-financing with FIs or their additional unit
share contribution. By that time, 50% of the resources committed by the Fls through co-financing
arrangement should have been disbursed.
Financial Covenants
* The TNUDF will maintain its debt-equity ratio not higher than 4;
*  The TNUDF will maintain its debt-service coverage ratio at a minimum of 1.2.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [x] Not applicable.
1 ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation [x] Not applicable.
Ix] The Project lImplementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
f ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): None
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1  The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: the project complies with all other
applicable Bank policies.]
Task Leader: Hiroaki Suzuki
Sector Ma ger: Frannie Humplick
Cod-ntry Director: Edwin R. Lim



Page 21
Annex 1
TNUDP II
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions and
Evaluation           Risks
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                   (Goal to Bank Mission)
Help municipalities and   Implementation of the 74th    PMU report on the  Political willingness of
other local bodies build their  Constitutional Amendment:   progress of the urban   various stakeholders to
ownI institutional and    -Local Elections (done)     sector reforms.      further implement the
financial capacity to deliver  -Issuance of the                            reforms initiated.
the new functions and     Recommendations of the
services assigned to them as  State Finance Commissions
a result of the recent 74th    (done)
Constitutional Amendment   -Legislative actions (done)
for the decentralization of    -Financial devolution (done).
municipal services.       -Implementation of Property
Tax Reforms(partially done)
Project Development                                                       (Objective to Goal)
Ob'jective:
Improve basic urban       Provision of basic urban   TNUDF progress        ULBs have capacity to
infrastructure services in    infrastructure investment  report            develop and implement
Tamil Nadu in a sustainable  (about 20% of the required                   the high priority urban
manniier                  investment of corporations                      infrastructure projects.
and municipalities over next 5
years)
Outputs:                                                                   (Outputs to Objective)
(i) Delivery of US$ 183   Sub-loan and investment    TNUDF progress        Timely development and
million of basic urban    amount committed and       report                implementation of
infrastructLre investment  disbursed (US$ 130 million)                     viable pipeline sub-
covering about 20% of the    by TNUDF, FIs and other                       projects.
capital investment        investors and sub-projects
requirement of corporations   completed under the Line of
and municipalities.       Credit sub-componenlt of the
Urban Investment
component.
Investment amount          PMU progress report   Communities'
committed and disbursed                         willingness to participate
under the Integrated                            in the program.
Sanitation Program sub-
component (US$10 million)
and sub-projects completed.
(ii) ULBs with strengthened   Prepare and implement ULB   PMU progress report   ULBs' strong
managerial, financial and  City Corporate Plan which  ULB City Corporate   commitment to the
technical capacities      will provide clear directions   Plans            reforms.
for future development and                      GOTN's continuous



Page 22
context within which                             support to the urban
priorities can be established                    sector reforms and the
through a consultative                           political environment
process, and investment                          supporting the reforms
financing decisions made in
the context of their desired
future consequences. (10
ULBs by June 2000; 10
ULBs by June 2001; and 30
ULBs spread over the
remaining project period)
Broadening resource base   PMU report on the
(property tax reform, revision  implementation of
of non-tax revenues such as   property tax according
user charges and license   to the TNULB Bill.
fees);
Devolution of funds from the  State budget allocation
State to the ULBs.         for the resources to be
transferred from the
3.6% of the State Tax      State to ULBs
revenues for each fiscal year
(iii) Sustainable funding  - Progress of the Institutional  PMU Progress Report
sources for urban          Development Component
infrastructure beyond the  (Disbursement of US$18.95
Bank's Line of Credit      million of ID Component of
operations.               the Bank loan).
TNUDF's bond issue (US$25  TNUDF progress        Macro-economic and
million over five years) as a   report (Action Plan for capital market situations
result of TNUDF's sound     TNUDF Bond           enabling the investment
financial performance      issuance.)             by the private investors.
measures agreed:
PMU progress report
Municipal Bond issuance by   (Action Plan for
one or two Corporations    Municipal Bond
during the project         issuance)
implementation period as a
result of their sound financial
performance



Page 23
Annex 2
TNUDP 11
Detailed Project Description
1. The project would comprise an Institutional Development (ID) component and an Urban Investment
component.
I. Institutional Development Component
2. The ID component will consist of the sub-components listed below, which will be implemented by the Project
Management Unit (PMU) in collaboration with the Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies (TNIUS) and the
TNUIFS under the supervision of the Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply (DMAWS).
The intention is to transfer the functions of PMU to DMAWS and TNIUS towards the end of the project. The
detailed contents of each sub-component (modalities, budget estimate, impiementation schedule and
arrangement, monitoring and performance indicators) are available in the project file.
(I) Sub-component 1: Capacity Building of ULBs-US$11.5 million (IBRD US$10 million GOTN/ULBs $1.5
million): This sub-component will strengthen the managerial, financial, technical and procurement capacity of
ULBs through training and technical assistance. An important component of the ID component is to assist ULBs
in the preparation and implementation of their City Corporate Plan (CCP). Through such a Plan, city residents will
develop a shared vision for the future and identify the key issues facing the city in the short, medium, and long-
term. By providing clear directions for the future, priorities can be established through a consultative process, and
investment financing decisions made in the context of their desired future consequences. The project will develop
with the GOTN/ULBs and communities a participatory approach and timetable, which will begin with the
identificationi of city-wide issues, followed by consultations with planning partners/stakeholders (elected officials,
municipal officers, community and professional groups, business/industrial community, and line agencies with
jurisdiction over some aspect of municipal service delivery), and leading to the drafting of the Plan. The final
version of the Plan would be approved and passed by the Municipal Council and be made available to the public at
venues, such as libraries, government offices, etc.. The Plan will be revised regularly, and the Council will prepare
an annual report on progress with the implementation of the plan, including proposed development works. This
will be supported by community surveys on specific services to be done on a regular basis. In addition, the plan
will include a 5-year capital investment program based on the municipality's long financial strategy and identified
high priority investment requirements.
The Plan will also include a program of institutional, financial and technical strengthening to which each city will
commit to in order to obtain financing under the project. Performance indicators will be developed under the
project to measure achievement under this program with respect to improvements on urban service delivery,
accountability, and transparency on the ground. The training program will be divided into two parts. First, elected
officials and administrative officers will receive training in core municipal functions. And second, training in
specific areas of urban and financial management including procurement will be provided to specific groups of
officials and officers, as well as members of the larger community, such as NGOs, and other community groups. A
comprehensive outline of training courses has been developed with DMAWS and USAID. This has been
discussed with Coimbatore and Tiruppur officials during appraisal to obtain their views on training requirements
and needs. The training program includes the study tours inside and outside lndia for the Government and
municipal officials and elected representatives.
During the process of project preparation, two cities have been selected as pilots: Coimbatore Municipal
Corporation and Tiruppur Municipality. The city corporate plans of these two ULBs will be used as models for
other cities, with modifications to fit local circumstances. The GOTN intends to issue a Government Order
making it mandatory for all municipal corporations and larger municipalities to prepare and implement such plans
on a regular basis. The proposed project will encourage the GOTN to publish the status of Plan preparation and
implementation for all ULBs state-wide.



Page 24
The draft corporate plans for Coimbatore and Tiruppur have been prepared. It was agreed that during the first ear
of the project, 10 such plans would be done, followed by another 10 in the second year and 30 during the rest of
the pro ject period. An assessment will be made during the mid-term evaluation on the process of formulating these
plans and their implementation, and a decision on the remaining ULBs covered under the project will be taken.
In addition, this sub-component will also finance studies to promote the sustainability of institutional reforms. Two
studies have been identified to date with DMASW. First, a study of the existing municipal structure and functions,
including personnel policies and systems and procedures to improve performance. This would look at not onily
constrainits at the local level but also at ways by which State policies could improve functioning of local bodies.
Second, a study will be made to identify the appropriate division of roles of municipalities and line agencies with
responsibility over land use planning, particularly given the 74th Constitutional Amendmenit provision to
decentralize urban planning to ULBs.
The sub-component will also assist ULBs in the preparation of operational manuals, to be applied statewide, in key
areas, such as accounting procedures (already underway with the ICIA assistance), enginieering standards, solid
waste management, contracting, etc. The PMU will play the lead role in working with DMAWS in the preparation
of these manuals. This sub-component will also finance Geographical Information System (GIS) for Chennai and
Coimbatore and the procurement of computer equipment and software for ULBs. This sub-component also
inIcludes the retaining experts in regional offices of Department of Municipal Administration (RDMA) and
operational techinology support to RDMA, CMA and ULBs.
(2) Sub-component 2: Capacity Building of DMA WS- US$0.25 million (IBRD US$0.25 million) -Capacity
building of DMAWS will consists of staff training and the purchase of equipment and library materials.
(3 ) Sub-component 3: TA to TNUDF and selected ULBs to raise resources from the domestic capital market.
US$0.5 million (IBRD US$0.5 million) - Financial advisory services will be provided to the TNUDF and selected
municipalities in raising funds from the domestic capital market. Time-bound action plans and draft terms of
reference of required technical assistance were prepared during appraisal and are available in the project file.
(4) Sub-component 4: TA to municipalitiesfor project preparation and implementation and recruitment of
outside experts US$5.0 million (IBRD US$5.0 million)- Consultancy services will be provided to assist ULBs in
project preparation and implementation. This will be financed through the TA facility of the Grant Funds.
(5) Sub-component 5: Staffing and incremental operation costs of PMU US$1.5 million (IBRD US$1 million
GOTN US$ 0.5 million) to finance the recruitment of outside experts and incremental operation costs of PMU.
(6) Institutional Development Activities to be identified during thle project implementation US$2.2 million
(IBRD US$2.2 million)
II. Urban Investment Component - US$183 million (IBRD US$85 million, TNUDF US$25 million, FIs
US$25 million, GOTN/ULBs US$48 million)
3. This component would consist of a Line of Credit sub-conmponent through the TNUDF and an Integrated
Scnitation Program sub-component (capital grant). The TNUIFS will implement the Line of Credit sub-
component according to the fund management contract between the TNUDF and TNUIFS under the supervision of
the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Trust Company Limited (TNUITC/Trustees of the TNUDF). The
background to the creation of the TNUDF and its structure are explained in Attachment I of Annex 2. The Fls
would support the TNUDF's Line of Credit sub-component by mobilizing their own resources. The sub-projects
5 The TUNDF is a trust fund according to the Indian Trust Act. The trust fund requires the trustee who accept the
Trust Deeds with powers, inter alia, of receiving contributions, loans and other assets on behalf of the TNUDF.
Trustee can be individual or corporate. In case of TNUDF, the trustee is TNUITC.



Page 25
will be identified, developed, and implemented by the ULBs with assistance from the TNUIFS. The Integrated
Sanitationi Program sub-component will be managed by Project Managemenit Unit (PMU) of DMAWS and
implemented by ULBs in collaboration with the Community Development Window of the Slum Clearance Board,
NGO, Consultants and the Community Based Organizations.
4. Line of Credit Sub-component US$ 173 million (IBRD US$80 million, TNUDF US$25 million, FIs US$25
millions, ULBs, US$43 millions). This component will finance about US$173 million of basic urban
infrastructure investments to be sponsored by eligible ULBs, statutory boards and private investors. The basic
infrastructure investments include mainly water supply, sewerage and sanitationi, solid waste management, roads,
transport, storm water drains, and street lightinig.
(1) Financing:
The Bank will provide a long-term loan of US$80 million (46% of the total investment costs) through the TNUDF
in the form of a line of credit. The Bank's loan proceeds would not be used for commercial complexes which
could be financed by short-term commercial financing. In order to increase private capital inflow into the urban
sector and leverage the Bank's limited resources to the maximum, the TNUDF and the FIs will mobilize US$50
million at their own risk in the following way:
(i) US$25 million to be mobilized by the TNUDF: The TNUDF will issue securities including bonds and
debentures or any other debt instrument. FIs will underwrite or guarantee these instruments or provide
other credit enhancement/risk participation mechanisms acceptable to the Bank. The unit share
contribution by private investors other than the FIs can also be included in the resource mobilization by
the TNUDF.
(ii) US$25 million to be mobilized by the three Fls: The FIs will contribute to financing mobilization by
several methods, mainly co-financing sub-projects financed by the TNUDF.
To ensure the above financial contribution from the TNUDF and the FIs, the following covenant will be included
in the project agreement:
(i) By such date that the aggregate of the disbursement for the Line of Credit sub-component from
the Bank loan shall have reached US$40 million, the TNUDF slhall mobilize, an aggregate of at
least US$25 million for its sub-project financing whether by issuing securities underwritten or
gtuaranteed by the FIs or supported by other credit enhancement/risk participation mechanisms
acceptable to the Bank and/or through co-financing arrangement with the FIs as well as the FIs'
additional unit share contribution. In the case of co-financing, the FIs' contribution can be
considered materialized when the FIs commit their resources by signing the loan agreements
for the co-financed projects.
(ii) By such date that the aggregate of the disbursement for the Line of Credit sub-component from
the Bank loan shall have reached US$60 million, the TNUDF shall mobilize, an aggregate of at
least US$50 million for its sub-project financing whether by issuinig securities underwritten or
guaranteed by the FIs or supported by other credit enhancement/risk participation mechanisms
acceptable to the Bank and/or through co-financing arrangemenit with the FIs as well as the Fls'
additional unit slhare contribution. At least US$25 million of sucih mobilization shall be
througlh co-financing with FIs or their additional unit share contribution. By that time, 50% of
the resources committed by the FIs through co-financing arrangement should have been
disbursed.
In addition, the TNUDF shall draw down the remaining Fls' unit share contribution of Rs. 38.6 Crores by March
31, 2000.



Page 26
(2) Lendinig Terms and Conditions:
Lending terms and conditions of: (i) Bank loan to GOI; (ii) the GOI loan to the GOTN; (iii) the GOTN loan to the
TNUDF (Bank loan onlent to the TNUDF); and (iv) the TNUDF loan to ULBS are as follows:
(i) From Bank to GOI (LIBOR-based Single Currency Loan):
(a)Lending Rate:
-The variable lending rate is comprised of a base rate and a total spread.
-The base rate is equal to six-month LIBOR for value at the start of an interest period.
-The total spread comprises the Bank's cost margin plus a lending spread.
-The cost margin is weighted semester average funding cost spread relative to currency 6-month LIBOR of Bank
debt funding all LIBOR-based SCLs, averaged across currencies.
-The contractual lending spread is 75 basis points.
-The lending rate is reset semiannually, on each interest payment date, and applied to interest periods beginning on
those days
(b) Commitment Fee: The contractual commitment fee is 0.75% per annum on un-disbursed loan amount,
beginning 60 days after the loan agreement is signed. An unconditional waiver of 0.5% will be provided for
interest periods beginning in FY99.
(c) Front end fee: A 1% front end fee will be charged andi payable upon loan effectiveness. This fee will be
financed out of the loan proceeds.
(d) Grace period (principal): 5 years
(e) Years to maturity: 20 years
(ii) From GOI to GOTN:
(a) Lending Rate: The GOI provides to the GOTN 70% of Bank's Loan amount to the GOI in the form of Loan
at standard lendinig rate and 30% of Bank's Loan amount in the form of Grant. The lending rate is variable and
currently at 12.5% p.a. payable annually.
(b) Repayment period: 20 years. 50% of the Loan amount has 5 years of grace period (as regards principal) and for
the balance 50% there is no grace period. The repayment is in annual equal installments.
(c) Front end fee: A 1% front-end fee will be charged. This fee will be financed out of the loan proceeds.
(iii) From GOTN to TNUDF:
(a) Lending Rate: Weighted average of the yields of GOI's ten-years bond of previous year plus 100 basis points
risk premium, to be adjusted at the beginning of each fiscal year. (Currently at 13.5%).
(b) Repayment Period: 20 years with a grace period of 5 years on principal only.
(c) Front end fee: A 1% front-end fee will be charged. This fee may be finaniced out of the loan proceeds.
(iv) From TNUDF to sub-borrowers (ULBs, Statutory Boards, Private Investors):
(a) Lending Rate:
-ULBs and Statutory Boards
Major Water Supply Projects and Underground Sewerage Projects-
The GOTN's lending rate to the TNUDF plus 250 basis points spread (currently 16%)
Otlher Municipal Projects- the GOTN's lending rate to the TNUDF plus 300 basis points spread (currently 16.5%)
-Private Investors: Market Determined Rates (however not less than lending rate to ULBs)
(b) Repayment period: Up to 20 years with a grace period of up to 5 years on principal only. Interest
during construction can be capitalized. Unlike the MUDF scheme, there will be no interest holiday (or



Page 27
moratorium) and interest during construction will be calculated on compound basis rather than simple
interest rate.
(c) Commitment Fee: The commitment fee will be 1% per annum on un-disbursed loan amount, beginning after
the loan agreement is signed.
(3) Lending Policy and Procedures:
The outline of the lending policy and procedures, including the eligibility criteria applicable to the TNUDF
borrowers and sub-projects, are shown in the Attachment 2 of Annex 2. The Operation Manual of the TNUDF is
available in thie project file.
(4) Pipeline of Projects:
(i)  Potential demand for urban infrastructure investment and the ULB absorptive capacity: The State
Finance Commission (SFC) estimates that the corporations and municipalities need to invest about
US$93 Imillion over the next five years to meet the standard norms set by SFC. According to the
preliminary results of the study financed by USAID, it is estimated that the municipal corporations and
municipalities in Tamil Nadu will have a potential absorptive borrowing capacity6 of about US$500
million over the next five years. It is forecast that the ULBs have adequate borrowing capacity for the
proposed line of credit even under conservative figures. The amount of the proposed financing
US$130million (Bank US$80 million and TNUDF/FIs US$50 million) represents about 26%7of ULBs
borrowing capacity. The details of the analysis on the borrowing capacities of the ULBs are available in
the project file.
(ii) Specific Pipeline of Projects: The TNUDF has developed an indicative project pipeline8 of about US$75
million (the TNUDF loan portion). The breakdown of the US$75 million is as follows: (i) US$26
million for relatively small traditional municipal projects, such as street lighting, waste collection
equipment, and storm drains; (ii) US$21 million for underground drainage; (iii) US$18 million for the
Madurai Ring Road and several grade alignment and bridge projects and (iv) US$10 million for solid
waste management. Regarding traditional municipal projects (US$26 million), US$4 million has been
already approved or disbursed and the applications of the remaining US$22 million have been received.
The contract for the Madurai Ring Road has been awarded and civil works are underway. Retroactive
financing will be applied to the eligible expenditures (sub-loans, TA for IDC and the Integrated Sanitation
Program) incurred after June 1, 1998, up to US$10.5 million, 10% of the proposed loan amount. The
details on the pipeline of the sub-projects are available in the project file.
5. Integrated Sanitation Program (ISP) Sub-Component US$ 10 million (Bank US$5 million, GOTN/ULBs
US$ 5 million)
(I) Background
The problem of inadequate sanitation in urban areas is widespread in Tamil Nadu, and poor communities are the
most affected. The GOTN is making efforts to remedy the situation. However, the needs outstrip the pace of
interventions. GOTN has tentatively estimated the needs to be in excess of US $ 50 millioni to provide adequate
sanitation facilities for urban communities. An Integrated Sanitation Program which provides for the construction
of both individual and community toilets is under implementation in several towns in the state. The program
6   This financial absorptive capacity is potential borrowing capacity based on ULB's financial position. It does not reflect
ULB's institutional capacity.
7   Actual proportion (%) would be lower as some of US$130 million will be extended to the Statutory Boards amnd private
investors.
8   The project pipeline developed by TNUDF (see project-file) was used to estimate the total loan requirement and its
disbursement schedule. However, it should not be considered as sub-projects approved by the Bank.



Page 28
provides a mix of grants and loans for individual household latrines and grants for public toilets. The proposed
project only covers the public toilets and other associated sanitation investmenits.
The GOTN has sought Bank support to expand the program and improve the implementation approach so as to
deepen the beneficial impact of improved sanitation. A prudent approach, taking into account past experiences is
necessary to ensure that the facilities created are sustained over a long period of time. The major issues that
require consideration are: (a) encouraging greater community involvement; (b) ULBs showing firm commitment,
willingness to form partnerships with communities and to provide downstream services; (c) equal emphasis should
be placed on operation and maintenance; (d) consolidating the process of NGO engagement in design, construction
and operation and maintenance of facilities; (e) while individual toilets are preferred, until income levels increase,
communal facilities are required; and (f) along with toilets, provision should be made for removal of sullage and
garbage in communities.
(2) Program Scheme
(a) Principle and Eligibility: In developing suitable solutions for the provision of sanitation, the following four
principles should apply: (i) demand driven -- community recognition of the need for improved sanitation; (ii)
community participates actively in its preparation, design, construction and operation and maintenance; (iii) ULBs
commit to provide down-stream services such as septage removal; and (iv) ULB and community forms a
partnership to design and implement schemes. Given the inexperience and poor record of ULBs in forming
partnerships in general, association with qualified local NGOs, based on transparenit eligibility, is a criteria for the
scheme. The Bank agreed with the GOTN that the existing institutional mechanism for community based activities
and programs, if proven efficient, can complement or replace the roles of NGOs. In any case, ULB should
demonstrate that they have this form of support either from qualified NGOs and/or other existing organizations.
In case a ULB dloes not provide adequate services to support communities, it has been agreed thiat the GOTN
will deduct the grant amount provided to ULBs under this scheme from the GOTN's next scheduled subsidy
transfer.
(b) Scope: The proposed component will support the following activities: (i) public sanitation facilities -
inclusive of water supply, electricity, waste disposal, baths, access roads, drainage and store rooms; (ii) sullage
collection and disposal in either soakpits or sewers; and (iii) garbage collection and placement in communal bins.
It is anticipated that improvements in basic saniitation services will result in improved health standards and
consequent enhancement of productivity levels.
(c) Coverage: All communities living in the below poverty line in corporations, municipalities and town
panchayats are eligible to receive assistance from the proposed project provided the above mentioned principles
and eligibility criteria are met.
(3) Financing Plan
The cost estimates of this sub-component are as following.
US$ Million
Description                                       Total           Bank         GOTN/ULB
Public Sanitation Facilities, Sullage and Garbage   9               4.5             4.5
Management, Preparation and IEC                      1              0.5             0.5
Total                                            10               5               5
(4) Implementation Arrangements
(a) Management: This component will be managed by the PMU, and implementation will take place in
communities coordinated by participating ULBs. The PMU will select a suitable NGO as partner organization to
support this program. This partner organization should have community organization skills, engineering and



Page 29
technical skills, and project management and financing skills. At least one expert having experience in a similar
program jointly selected by the PMU and this partner organization in consultation with the Bank will be assigned
to the PMU.
(b) Local-Community: At the ULB level, there will be two to three partners - Community Base Organization
(CBO) or local NGO and the ULB. The ULB will ensure that selected communities will be provided with down-
stream services and also be involved in the construction of facilities. Where required, NGOs will undertake IEC
(Information Education and Communication), interface with community and ULB, provide technical advice,
construct or supervise construction of facilities and provide feedback. The CBO is the key organization to ensure
thle active involvement of the community members. Establishment of the CBOs will build on the community
structures created through Swama Jayanti Shahari Rozgar Yojana. (SJSRY/ Golden Jubilee Urban Employment
Program).



Page 30
Attachment 1 of Annex 2
TNUDF
TNUDP I Restructuring
Conversion of the MUDF into the TNUDF
I. Background of TNUDP I Restructuring
1. From June 1988 until September 1997, the GOTN implemented the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project
(TNUDP I), which was financed by IDA Credit (Credit 1923-IN/SDR 216.5 million). The TNUDP I was one of
the largest integrated urban development projects in India, which included the Municipal Urban Development
Fund (MUDF) as one of its components. The MUDF was established as a revolving fund under the project in
order to address the absence of long-term capital for urban infrastructure, which is a major constraint to urban
development. The Project Management Group (GOTN) of TNUDP served as the fund manager of the MUDF.
The MUDF has proven itself popular among the municipalities and has become the project's most successful
component. At the time of TNUDP Restructuring in October 1996, the MUDF had financed over 500 sub-
projects including roads, bridges, street lights, solid waste plants, storm water drains, bus stations, and markets in
90 out of 110 municipalities in Tamil Nadu. It disbursed about Rs.1,650 million (US$ 63 million at average
exchange rate). The MUDF had been generating adequate profits from the satisfactory spread and high rate of
loan repayments, which were a result of adherence to well-defined lending rules and procedures. The MUDF,
although conceived as an experimental operation, was expected to become a sustainable independent financial
intermediary.
2. Although the MUDF had proven itself as a financially viable municipal credit scheme, it still needed to
overcome the following shortcomings: (i) its lending capacity was far too small compared to the potential
demand for urban infrastructure investment; (ii) its fund mobilization and deployment were not optimal (it
heavily relied on the GOTN's grant); (iii) it depended entirely on public financing, including an on-lent IDA
Credit; (iv) it was located within the administrative machinery of the Government, and faced the potential
political risks; and (v) its staff was not free from the general constraints of the civil service system, such as
frequent rotation and a rigid compensation system.
3. In order to overcome the above shortcomings, the GOTN and the Bank agreed on the restructuring of
TNUDP. The major objective of the project restructuring was to convert the project's successful Municipal
Urban Development Fund (MUDF) into an autonomous financial intermediary -- the Tamil Nadu Urban
Development Fund (TNUDF)/Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Service Ltd. (TNUIFS) -- with the
participation of private sector capital and management for financing urban infrastructure projects. Additionally,
a new Grant Fund (GF) was set up to encourage urban infrastructure investments targeted to the urban poor, and
to finance TA, resettlement and rehabilitation costs. The project restructuring of the TNUDP was negotiated in
July 1996, and approved by the Board of IDA in October 1996. The legal documents were amended in December
1996, and became effective in March 1997.
4. In November 1996, the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF) was established as a trust under the
Indian Trusts Act 1982, with the participation of the GOTN (MUDF net worth as its contribution, Rs.l .2 billion
-US$34 million, 70%), ICICI, HDFC and IL&FS (FIs' contribution Rs.510 million, 30%). After the completion
of legal procedures and the transfer of MUDF's assets and liabilities, the TNUDF began its lending operations in
March 1997. The GF was established in September 1996, and obtained GOTN's first contribution in April 1997.
The TNUDP Credit was closed on September 30, 1997.
II. Structure of TNUDF
i. Under the project restructuring, the MUDF, with total assets of about Rs. 1,600 million (US$ 47 million), was
converted into a new trust fund called the "Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF)", under the Indian



Page 31
Trust Act. It is located outside the Government and is managed by a private fund management company called
the TNUIFS (see para 11-4). Concurrently, the scope of operations was widened to include urban infrastructure
projects sponsored by public undertakings and private investors. In order to further pursue the project's
objective of poverty alleviation, a new Grant Fund (GF) was established to finanice poverty alleviation projects
for specific low-income populations. The GF also finances technical assistance costs for ULBs.
2. TNUDF- The TNUDF extends long-term loans to creditworthy municipalities, public undertakings, and
private investors, for the financing of urban infrastructure projects that will contribute to improved living
standards for urban populations. Both the assets and liabilities of the MUDF have been transferred to the
TNUDF. In addition, the participating financial institutions (see para 11-5) have committed to contribute to the
fund an amount that corresponds to 44 percent of GOTN's initial contribution. After project restructuring, a
portion of the proceeds from the credit balance provided by IDA were used by the Government of India and the
GOTN to provide long-term debt financing to the TNUDF. The ultimate objective of the TNUDF is to provide
self-sustainable financing while mobilizing private savings for urban infrastructure investment.
3. Board of Trustees - The administration of the TNUDF is entrusted to a Board of Trustees (BT), nominated
by the GOTN and the participating financial institutions. In order to avoid the inconvenience of individual
trustees (in case of death and retirement), the trustee is incorporated as Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Trust
Company (TNUITC). The GOTN and the FIs nominate their representatives as Board of Trustee. The BT
determines the funding, lending, and operating policies of the TNUDF, whicih has entered into a fund
management contract with the TNUIFS. The BT approves the business and financial plans proposed by the
TNUIFS and supervises their implementation. The BT also approves loans above a threshold amount of Rs. 15
Crores (about US$ 5 million). Approval of loans below the threshold amount has been delegated to the
TNUIFS. The threslhold amount would be increased subject to the performance of the TNUIFS. The loans
above the threshold as well as the first three loans also require Bank's approval. The BT can neither propose
projects itself, nor consider projects which are not recommended by the TNUIFS.
4. TNUIFS- The TNUIFS is a joint venture company between the GOTN and the participating financial
institutions, which own the majority of shares. The TNUIFS develops and manages the portfolio of the TNUDF
according to a lending strategy and policy determined by its Board of Trustees and following specific lending
procedures. The TNUIFS was also contracted by the GOTN to manage the Grant Fund.
5. Participating Financial Institutions- The GOTN has selected ICICI Limited. (ICICI) as the lead Fl
partner of the TNUIFS. ICICI has a strong record as a term lending institutioni and possesses sufficient financial
and human resources. Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS) and the Housing Development
Finance Corporation (HDFC) also joined the TNUIFS. The IL&FS is a rapidly growing financial institution and
is considered a leader in the development and financing of private infrastructure projects, in India, on a limited
recourse basis. The HDFC is a leading finance corporation in the field of housinig and regional development.
The Bank is familiar with these institutions as all of them have been borrowers of the Bank. This arrangement
allows the GOTN to retain the three best financial institutions in respect to comparative advantage and expertise.
Their strong reputation among India's business and financial community will help the TNUDF to raise additional
resources from other private investors.



Page 32
Attachment 2 of Annex 2
TNUDF
OUTLINE OF LENDING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES9
I.   OBJECTIVES:
The main purpose of this fund is to channel increased financial resources, including private financing, into high
priority infrastructure investments, contributing directly to improved living standards of urban population.
Specifically, the Fund would:
* fund viable urban infrastructure projects;
* mobilize resources from the capital markets;
* facilitate the participation of private sector in infrastructure development through direct investment and
through joint delivery mechanism of infrastructure services;
would earn returns for the contributors and ensure the sustainability of the fund; and
* improve the financial management of urban local bodies, enabling them to access debt finance from markets.
Tlhis paper describes the broad lending policies and procedures to be followed by the Tamil Nadu Urban
Infrastructure Financial Services Ltd (TNUIFS) in managing the funds of the TNUDF.
These lending policies and procedures would be reviewed and modified, if necessary, by the Board of Tamil Nadu
Urban Infrastructure Trustee Company, LTD (TNUITC).
ll. LENDING POLICIES:
1. General Policies
(l) Foreign Exchange Exposure: The Fund will not incur foreign exchange exposure.
(2) Investment Policy: The Fund will invest only in securities issued by or guaranteed by the National and State
Governmenits; fixed deposits of major financial institutions; and investment grade securities of corporate issuers.
(3) Liquidity: The TNUDF is a medium and long tern lender and as such will avoid excessive short term
borrowing/lending. Cash flow forecasts will be maintained in order to ensure the optimum use of liquid funds.
The Fund will match the terms of its loans and borrowings in order to minimize its exposure to interest rate
fluctuations.
(4) Exposure Limit: Except as the TNUITC may otherwise decide, exposure limits to projects and borrowers
would be as follows:
* No more than 10% of the TNDUF's net-worth will be lent for any one project.
* No more than 40% of the TNDUF's net-worth will be lent to any one borrower.
(5) Security: Security will be taken wherever possible. Escrow accounts will be used to ensure the availability of
tax, user fees, tariffs, etc. to service loans; pledges of equipment will be taken in the case of lending for equipment.
The detailed lending policies and procedures are available in the project file.



Page 33
(6) Loan Coverage: The loan does not exceed 90% of the cost of the project sponsored by ULBs and Statutory
Board or Authority and does not exceed 75% of the cost of the project carried out by other borrowers.
(7) Dftiwult: Borrowers for whom semi-annual payments are in arrears will not be eligible for further loans.
C. Lending Criteria:
The TNUIFS shall ensure that a project and borrower that sponsors such a project, in respect of which a loan
application or requests made to the TNUIFS, shall meet the following eligibility criteria.
(1) Eligible Project:
(i)  The project which is given high priority in the capital expenditure program of ULBs or the Statutory
Bodies, in case ULBs and the Statutory Bodies are borrowers;
(ii) The project supports water supply, sanitation, solid waste management, roads, transport, sites and
services, area development, and other remunerative and non-remunerative urban infrastructure
contributing to the improvement of the living standard of the urban populations, excluding power and
telecommunications;
(iii) Appropriate statutory and environmental clearances have been obtained and these are documented in the
project evaluation report;
(iv) The project comply with the environmental, resettlement and social standards set forth in the TNUDF's
Environmental and Social Report (ESR);
(v) The project adopts the appropriate proven and most cost effective technology and technical norms and
specifications. Detailed technical criteria check list for main sub-sector will be prepared by the TNUIFS
(vi) The economic rate of return for project is at least 12%, for project with quantifiable benefits (ERR
calculation is not required for the projects less than US$500,000); and
(vii) In case of a revenue earning sub-project on a non-recourse financinig basis (i.e. debt services are secured
only by sub-project's revenues), the project generates at least a financial rate of return of 14 %, if
applicable. In case of remunerative projects which cannot generate adequate FRR due to externality, the
minimum cost recovery target should be agreed with the project sponsor.
(2) Eligible Items for the TNUDFFinancing: The TNUDF will finance the costs of civil works, services, goods
and materials. The TNUDF will not finance the land acquisition costs, tax and the working capital.
(3) Eligible Borrowers: ULBs and the Statutory Boards, the following norms would be required:
(i)  maintaini a ratio of total expenditure/total revenue (tax and regular non-tax revenue) < l
(ii) interest + repayment/total revenue < 30%
(iii) in case where the ULB or Statutory Body fails to meet (ii) above, but the financial rate of return exceed
14%, then the TNUDF will require the borrowers to put in place special recovery and credit enhanicing
mechanism such as escrow account arrangement, hypothecation and the bank guarantee.
(iv) having adequate internal control, accounting and financial management systems to produce infornation
and reports on the implementation performance of the project being financed. The systems should
provide for accurate and timely reports on1 the accounts (Source and Uses of funds) of the project and the
physical performance of the key project components. In case borrowers do not meet this requirement,
the TNUDF should set, as conditions of sanction/disbursement of the sub-loan, time bound action plans
for implementation.
(v) having adequate procurement/contract management system. In case ULBs do not have adequate system,
they agree to implement recommendations of the procurement consultant sent by the TNUIFS, on
streamlining of procurement systems and procedures/strengthening of staff within an agreed time-frame,
statiling with the establishment of procurement management table as the minimum condition for the
sanctioni or disbursement of the TNUDF loan.



Page 34
In addition, all the borrowers should have the institutional capacity to implement the project and to operate and
maintain the constructed facilities in a satisfactory manner. In case where the institutional capacity of the borrower
is not adequate, the TNUDF would require the project sponsor to procure the technical assistance services.
III. LENDING PROCEDURES:
(1) Application: Borrowers would be required to submit to the TNUIFS their financial statements (Financial
Operations Plan FOP in case of ULBs), a.comprehensive project report in the format to be designated by the
TNUIFS as part of its application. In case where the TNUIFS has identified projects, the TNUIFS would assist the
prospective borrowers to prepare the project reports in the format prescribed above.
(2) Initial Screening: On the basis of the above project report, the TNUIFS would prepare a quick initial
screening report, namely, the "Initial Screening Report" (ISR). The ISR would contain an eligibility check on the
borrower and the project, including its ESR implications. The TNUIFS shall complete the initial screening process
within two weeks from the date of submission of the application.
(3) Appraisal: After the ISR is approved by the CEO, a detailed appraisal containing technical, economic,
financial, organizational, legal, social and environmental evaluation would be completed. The appraisal report
should be prepared within 2 months from the date of the approval of initial screening report. The appraisal report
will cover, inter alia:
(a) the eligibility criteria for projects and borrowers; (b) suitability of site; (c) availability of inputs; (d)
appropriateness of and proven experience with, the technology offered; (e) project design; (f) arrangements
for detailed engineering;(g) cost estimates; (h) construction and procurement arrangements; (i) arrangemenits
for operation and maintenance; (j) arrangements for compliance with environmenital, resettlement and social
standards as set in the TNUIFS's ESR; (k) financing plan; (I) economic and financial viability of the project;
(m) adequacy of the proposed financing; (n) corporate and capital structure of the borrower; (o) institutional
assessment; (p) required technical assistance; and (q) required covenalnts.
(4) Sanction/disbursements: Based on the appraisal report, the proposed loan will be sanctioned by the different
levels of authorities depending on the size of loan. The conditions of sanction would specify required covenants,
procurement conditions, while disbursement conditions would be linked to implementation schedules. The
TNUIFS would also put in place a supervisory mechanism to ensure that its disbursement and procurement
coniditionis are satisfied before further installments are released.
Typically, the conditions of sanction would also specify the nature of collateral, if applicable, and the methods of
repayments, such as escrow accounts, if needed, etc. The conditions may require that the borrower shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amount, as shall be consistent
with normal business practice. Disbursements would be made to the borrowers, but direct payments to suppliers
would be the preferred option.
(5) Monitoring: All borrowers would be required to submit quarterly progress reports, indicating physical and
financial milestones targeted and achieved to the TNUIFS. The TNUIFS would monitor implementation and in
case where a time/cost overrun is anticipated, an immediate report describing the reasons and remedial actions
including modificationis of disbursement conditions would be submitted to CEO/board. The TNUIFS would
reserve its right to suspend/cancel the loans, if during course of project implementation there are serious violations
of the sanctioni/disbursement conditions.
(6) Post Evaluation: After the projects are completed, a post evaluation report stating the costs, benefits, finanicial
ratios, techniical/social parameters achieved by the project would be submitted in the format prescribed. The
TNUIFS would place before the TNUITC, a quarterly performance statement including details of projects
sanctionied and completed.



Page 35
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                     Local       Foreign      Total
---------US $ million--------
Institutional Development Component                    15.23         2.07        17.3
-Capacity Building of ULBs                             8.67           0.83       9.5
-Capacity Building of DMAWS                            0.21           0          0.21
-TA for Bond Issuance                                  0              0.41       0.41
-TA for project development/implementation             3.3            0.83       4.13
-Support to PMU                                        1.24           0          1.24
-Unallocated                                           1.81           0          1.81
Urban Investment Component                             133.52        6.91        140.43
-Line of Credit sub-component                          125.85         6.91       132.76
-Integrated Sanitation Program sub-component           7.67           0          7.67
Front-end Fee                                          0              1.05       1.05
Total Baseline Cost                                    148.75         10.03      158.78
Physical Contingencies                                 14.15          0.75       14.9
Price Contingencies                                    29.55          1.77       31.32
Total Project Cost                                     192.45         12.55      205



Page 36
Annex 4
TNUDP II
Economic Analysis of Urban Investment Sub-Projects
1. The main purpose of the TNUDF is to channiel increased financial resources, including private financing, into
high priority infrastructure investments, contributing to improved living standards of urban population. The
TNUDF will finance water supply, sanitation, solid waste management, roads, transport, sites and services, area
development, and other remunerative and non-remunerative urban infrastructure, excluding power and
telecommunications. These urban investment sub-projects through the TNUDF would have major benefits,
including: (a) reduction in health hazards to the urban population through better water distribution and sewerage
infrastructure; (b) improved environmental conditions through the solid waste management; and (c) reduction of
transport time and costs through road and bridge construction.
2. In 1996, the TNUDF adopted its lending policy and procedures which includes a description of its lending
criteria. These lending criteria were agreed upon with the Bank under the project restructuring of TNUDP I.
They are summarized as follows:
(i) Selected projects to be given high priority in the capital expenditure program of ULBs or the Statutory
Bodies. The ULBs will prepare a long-term investment program in their City Corporate Plans which are
given the highest priority by the major key stakeholders in a participatory manner. This process will
ensure efficient allocation of the ULBs' scarce resources to the investments with high priority;
(ii) Selected projects to adopt the appropriate proven and most cost effective technology and technical norms
and specifications to be chosen on the analysis of technical alternatives;
(iii) The economic rate of return for selected project is at least 12% (opportunity cost of capital), with large
sub-projects (more than US$500,000) with quantifiable benefits;
(iv) In case of a revenue eaning sub-project on a noni-recourse financing basis (i.e. debt services are secured
only by sub-project's revenues), the project generates at least a financial rate of return of 14 %, if
applicable. In case of remunerative projects which cannot generate adequate FRR due to externality the
minimum cost recovery target should be agreed with the project sponsor.
The TNUDF will assess the cost recovery potential of the investment and its associated operations and
maintenance costs in the case of revenue generating projects. In addition, the TNUDF will evaluate the debt
service capacity of ULBs, using the Financial Operation Plan (FOP).
3. The TNUDF will appraise sub-projects according to its lending policies and procedures (Attachment 2 of
Annex 2), usinlg standard application and appraisal report formats. The first three sub-loans and all sub-loans
over US$5 million and all sub-loans for the projects whose total cost exceeds US$20 million are subject to the
approval of the Bank.



Page 37
Annex 5
TNUDP II
Financial Summary
1. Summarized Financial Results of TNUDF (FY1996/97'0 &FY1997/98)
Table A5-1 :Income and Expenditure Accounts (Rs. Crores)
12 Montlhs to                                     3/31/97                         3/31/98
Interest on Loans                                 15.7                            21.9
Interest on Deposits                              10.5                            17.1
Total Interest Earned                             26.2                            39.0
Less
Interest Expenses                                 9.8                             18.7
Net Interest Earnings                              16.4                           20.3
Less: Admin. Expenses                             0.7                             0.8
Prov.for Doubtful Loans                           2.1                             n.a.
Surplus                                           13.6                            19.5
Balance Sheets ( Rs.Crores)
3/31/97                        3/31/98
Capital Account                                    124.8                          124.8
Reserves & Surplus                                2.7                             2.7
Equity                                            127.5                           127.5
Loans from GOTN, including Accrued Interest       156.5                           183.4
Current Liabilities                               7.2                             11.4
Total Equity & Liabilities                        291.2                           322.3
Loans less Provisions                              144.6                          159.9
Investments                                       64.5                            115.9
Other Current Assets                              82.1                            46.5
Total Assets                                      291.2                           322.3
10 Since TNUDF legally became a Trust only on November 29, 1996, it's Income and Expenditure Statement for
FY 96/97 covered only the period November 29, 1996/March 31, 1997. However, since TNUDF took over
MUDF as a going concern, and to enable a meaningful interpretation of the comparative figures, the results and
comments are based on the consolidated results of MUDF/TNUDF. The following aspects also have a bearing on
the comparisons as well as on the overall results and the interpretations: (i) the non- provision for doubtful loans
of MUDF in TNUDF's accounts since they are guaranteed by GOTN; and the non-provision for taxation in
TNUDF's accounts based on legal opinion that TNUDF is not taxable. Another important feature is the
interpretation/treatment hitherto of the terms of MUDF/ TNUDF's borrowings whereby, during the 5 year grace
period, interest was accrued on a simple interest basis and capitalized at the end of the period. This resulted in an
improved effective spread during the grace period and a hike in the quantum of interest payments after the grace
period. On the income side, however, there was no corresponding match, except for the historical 6 months
(effective) interest holiday on loans. Under the proposed project, TNUDP II, interest is payable annually on
borrowings during the grace period and there will be no interest holiday on TNUDF's loans.



Page 38
Key Ratios
Net Profit/ Equity          10.7                        15.3
Debt/Equity                  1.2                         1.4
Net profit/Average Assets    5.5                         6.4
II. Financial Projections of the TNUDF (FY98199-FY07/08)
The fiinancial projections of the TNUDF for the period of FYI 998/99- FY2007/08 are shown in the following
pages. The key assumptions of the financial projections are available in the project file.



Mar-17-99
TAMILNADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
(10 YEAR FINANCIAL FORECAST (1997-98 TO 2007-08))
PROJECTED PROFIT AND LOSS STATEMENT
(Rs.crs)
For the year ending Mar.31,           1998        1999       2000        2001        2002       2003         2004       2005        2006        2007        2008
Income from Operations
Interest on loans
-TNUDF-I                              21.93      24.00       25.49       23.93       21.85      19.76       18.66       17.53       16.39       15.22       14.03
-TNUDF-II                              0.00       0.00        7.61       22.56       36.44      50.70       64.82       77.46       89.58      101.12      112.00
Total interest recd.                  21.93      24.00       33.10       46.49       58.29      70.46       83.47       94.99      105.97      116.35      126.03
Income on investments                 17.08      18.25       26.21       31.88       32.07      35.41       40.68       38.56       31.71      25.42        19.88
Total income                          39.01      42.25       59.31       78.37       90.36     105.87      124.15      133.56      137.68      141.76      145.90
Less:
Interest expenses
-TNUDF-I                              18.71      21.27       22.12       23.31       28.09      27.07       24.89       22.41       19.61       16.45       12.86
-TNUDF-11                              0.00       0.00        7.26       18.87       27.12      40.72       56.22       62.03       61.68       61.08       60.41
Bad debts                              0.00       1.46        1.61        2.18        3.00       3.75        4.55        5.41        6.21        7.02        7.84
Net income from Operations            20.30       19.53      28.31       34.02       32.16      34.33       38.49       43.71       50.17       57.21       64.80
Expenses
Other Expenses                         0.00       0.01        0.01        0.01        0.01       0.01        0.01        0.01        0.01        0.01        0.02
AMC fees                               0.77        0.47        1.48       1.65        1.78       2.11         2.18       2.33        2.47        2.60        2.71
Written-off Upfront-fees               0.00        0.00       0.18        0.18        0.18       0.18         0.18       0.18        0.18        0.18        0.18
Profit Before Tax                     19.53       19.04      26.65       32.18       30.19      32.02       36.12       41.18       47.50       54.42       61.89
Taxation                               0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
Profit After Tax                      19.53       19.04      26.65       32.18       30.19      32.02       36.12       41.18       47.50       54.42       61.89
Appropriations
-Retained earnings                     1.53        7.87      15.25       18.98       15.80      12.81        14.45      16.47       19.00       21.77       24.76
-TransfertoGF                         18.00       11.17      11.39       13.19       11.73      11.96        13.18      14.64       16.37       18.09       19.75
- Proposed dividend to FIs             0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        2.66       7.25         8.49      10.07       12.13       14.56       17.39
% Growth of total income                                    40.37%     32.14%      15.30%      17.16%      17.27%      7.58%       3.08%       2.97%       2.92%
%AMC fees/total income               1.97%       1.12%       2.49%      2.11%        1.97%      2.00%       1.76%      1.75%       1.79%       1.83%        1.86%
% Net profit/Total income           50.07%      45.07%      44.93%     41.06%      33.41%     30.25%       29.09%     30.84%      34.50%      38.39%      42.42%
( Rs. 1 crore = Rs. 10 million)
Front end fee is amortised over 20 year period, being the tenor of the loan



TAMILNADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
(10 YEAR FINANCIAL FORECAST (1997-98 TO 2007-08))
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET STATEMENT
(Rs.crs)
As on March 31.                       1998        1999        2000       2001        2002       2003         2004       2005        2006        2007        2008
LIABILITIES
Capital/contribution                 124.81     137.21      175.81      175.81      175.81     175.81      175.81      175.81      175.81     175.81       176.81
Reserves and surplus                   2.65      10.52       25.77       44.76       60.55      73.36       87.81      104.29      123.29     145.05       169.81
Borrowings
-TNUDF-I                             183.43      194.29     201.60      203.79      190.93     174.22      155.33      133.96      109.79      82.45        53.90
- TNUDF-II & Others                    0.00       0.00      107.50      172.00      225.75     365.50      451.50      448.95      444.52     439.49       431.73
Current liabilities & provisions
Current liabilities                    4.27       4.27        4.27        4.27        4.27       4.27        4.27        4.27        4.27       4.27         4.27
Provisions
-Provision forbad debts               14.13       15.58      17.20       19.38       22.37      26.12       30.67       36.08       42.29      49.32        57.16
-TransferabletoGF                      7.15       11.17       11.39      13.19       11.73      11.96       13.18       14.64       16.37       18.09       19.75
-ProvisionsfordividendstoFls           0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        2.66       7.25        8.49       10.07       12.13       14.56       17.39
TOTAL                                336.43      373.04     543.54      633.19      694.08     838.50      927.05      928.05      928.46     929.03       930.81
ASSETS
Investments                          115.95      176.87     259.98      271.35      263.10     327.01      350.94      291.79      236.67      186.95      144.36        (O
Loans disbursed                                                                                                                                                           4
-TNUDF-I                             173.99      169.49     161.20      152.47      142.67     131.78      119.78      106.66       92.39       76.96       60.33
-TNUDF-II                              0.00       16.67      108.93     196.12      275.23     366.81      443.62      517.07      587.04      652.95      714.14
Cash and bank balance                 46.48       10.00       10.00      10.00       10.00      10.00       10.00       10.00       10.00       10.00       10.00
Front end fee not written-off          0.00        0.00       3.43        3.25        3.07       2.89        2.71        2:53        2.35        2.17        1.99
TOTAL                                336.43      373.04     543.53      633.19      694.07     838.49      927.05      928.05      928.45      929.03      930.81
Key financial indicators
Net proftiVNetworth                 15.32%      12.89%      13.22%      14.59%     12.77%      12.85%      13.70%     14.70%      15.88%      16.96%       17.86%
Debt-Equity ratio                      1.44        1.32        1.53       1.70        1.76       2.17        2.30        2.08        1.85        1.63        1.40
Average assets                                   354.73     458.29      588.36      663.63     766.28      882.77      927.55      928.25      928.74      929.92
Net profit/Av.assets                             5.37%       5.81%      5.47%       4.55%      4.18%        4.09%      4.44%       5.12%       5.86%       6.66%
Investments/Loans                      0.67        0.95       0.96        0.78        0.63       0.66        0.62        0.47        0.35        0.26        0.19
Debt-service coverage ratio            2.04        3.33       2.42        1.93        1.48       1.42        1.42        1.44        1.50        1.58        1.67
Ownership pattern
GoTN (%)                           100.00%      91.32%      70.69%     68.59%       67.32%    67.06%       66.72%     66.28%      65.72%      65.02%      64.17%
Fls (%)                              0.00%       8.68%      29.31%     31.41%      32.68%     32.94%       33.28%     33.72%      34.28%      34.98%      35.83%
(Rs. 1 crore = Rs. 10 million)



TAMILNADU URBAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
(10 YEAR FINANCIAL FORECAST (1997-98 TO 2007-08))
PROJECTED FUND FLOW STATEMENT
(Rs.crs)
For the vear endinq Mar.31,                     1999       2000       2001        2002      2003        2004       2005        2006       2007        2008
SOURCES
Inc. in contribution                           12.40      38.60        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        1.00
Written-off expenses                            0.00        0.18       0.18       0.18       0.18        0.18       0.18       0.18        0.18       0.18
Net profit to Reserves                          7.87       15.25      18.98      15.80      12.81       14.45      16.47      19.00      21.77       24.76
Inc. in Borrowings
-TNUDF-I                                        0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
- TNUDF-II                                      0.00      107.50      64.50       0.00      86.00       86.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
- TNUDF Bond issue                              0.00        0.00       0.00      53.75      53.75        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
- Sources yet to be identified                  0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00
Interest accrued but not due (TNUDF-I)         14.31       12.42       9.72       1.22       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Repayment of loans
-TNUDF-I                                        7.20        8.30       8.72       9.80      10.89       12.00      13.12      14.27       15.43       16.63
-TNUDF-II                                       0.00        0.00       1.71       3.65       5.79        8.55      11.55      15.03       19.09       23.82
Inc. in current liabilities                     0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00
Inc. in other liabilities
- Provision for bad debts                       1.46        1.61       2.18       3.00       3.75        4.55       5.41       6.21        7.02       7.84
- Transferable to GF                            4.02        0.22       1.80      -1.46       0.23        1.22       1.45       1.73        1.72        1.65
- Provision for dividend to Fls                 0.00        0.00       0.00       2.66       4.59        1.24       1.59       2.06        2.43        2.83
Dec. in investments                             0.00        0.00       0.00       8.25       0.00        0.00      59.15      55.12       49.72      42.59
TOTAL                                          47.26      184.09     107.80      96.84     177.99      128.18     108.92     113.60      117.36      121.30
APPLICATIONS
Inc. in loans disbursed
-TNUDF-I                                        2.70        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
-TNUDF-II                                      16.67       92.26      88.90      82.76      97.37       85.36      85.00      85.00       85.00       85.00
Repayment of loans
-TNUDF-I                                        3.45        5.11       7.53       14.08     16.71       18.90      21.37      24.17       27.33       28.55
-TNUDF-1I                                       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       2.55       4.43        5.03        7.75
Front end fees                                  0.00        3.61       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
Inc. in Investments                            60.92       83.10      11.37       0.00      63.91       23.93       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
TOTAL                                          83.74      184.09     107.80      96.84     177.99      128.18     108.92      113.60     117.36      121.30
Opening cash balance                           46.48       10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00       10.00      10.00       10.00      10.00       10.00
Surplus/(Deficit)                             -36.48        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00
Closing balance                                 10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00      10.00       10.00      10.00       10.00      10.00       10.00
(Rs. 1 crore = Rs. 10 million)



Page 42
Annex 6
TNUDP II
Procurement and Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
I.   Procurement
A. General Rules
(1) The proceeds of the Loan will be used to finance the procurement of civil works (bridges, roads, storm-
water drainage, solid waste management works, integrated area development, sewerage and water supply
works, etc.), goods (machinery, equipment, waste collection vehicles, etc.) and services (consulting services,
training, etc).
(2) Procurement of goods and works will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" of January 1995 and revised in January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
(3) The consultants will be selected and employed according to the " Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers of January 1997 and revised in September 1997 as well
as their addenda issued in January 1999.
(4) Invitation for Bid (IFB) will be published in press under: (i) UNDB for all ICB cases only; (ii) works
valued over US$500,000 in the national press; (iii) works valued between US$30,000 and US$500,000 in the
regional press; and (iv) works valued less than US$30,000 in notice boards and city press where necessary.
(5) Minimum post -qualification criteria will be fixed in all cases to ensure selection of bidders with
appropriate financial /technical capability.
(6) Award will be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder meeting the specified qualification criteria
for each case.
(7) There will be: (i) no restriction in the sale of bidding documents; (ii) n1o preference to any bidder of class
of bidders either for price or for bidding terms and conditions; and (iii) no price negotiations with any bidders,
even with the lowest.
(8) Except the consultancies, Bank's prior review will be limited to cases valued above US$500,000 in the
case of NCB and will be in all ICB cases. All consultancies valued US$] 00,000 and above will be subject to
prior review.
(9) Evaluation criteria should be clearly defined in documents. Price and quantifiable factors such as
delivery/payment terms should be only the normal factors in evaluation except for specific equipment where
performance/productivity could be another factor.
(10) Bid packages should be formulated optimally to attract bids from competent, qualified bidders to ensure
satisfactory completion in desired time-frame.
( 11) Further detailed provisions applicable to NCB based procurement are shown in Attachment I of Annex 6.



Page 43
B. Civil Works
(1) Detailed design and engineering including soil investigation and acquisition of land should be completed
before bids are invited. If it is necessary, consultants will be employed to meet these conditions.
(2) Schedule of rates (based on which estimates are prepared) should be updated regularly taking into account
realistic date based on construction methodology to be used, current market prices for materials and labor and
reasonable contractors' profit which is estimated according to the practices of the GOTN.
(3) Bill of Quantity (BOQ) will have a separate schedule for those general items which are not covered in the
analysis of rates based on which estimates are prepared.
(4) Contractors should be made responsible to provide all materials including cement/steel, etc.
(5) Bid packages should cover all civil works, water supply, sanitary, electrification/air conditioning works
except in the case of electric crematorium where electric works will be procured under a separate contract.
(6) NDO model documents WI (NCB for civil works costing the equivalent of US$ 100,000 and below), W2
(NCB for civil works costing over US$100,000) and W5 (civil works under National Shopping for works
valued less than the equivalent of US$ 30,000) will be generally used for the procurement of civil works.
(7) International Competitive Bidding (ICB): ICB will be adopted for all works valued US$10 million and
above for each package.
(8) National Competitive Bidding (NCB): NCB will be adopted for all works valued above the equivalent of
US$30,000 up to US$10 million.
(9) Shopping Procedures: Shopping or obtaining quotations from three qualified contractors or registered
NGOs or local community organization will be followed for all packages costing the equivalent of less than
US$30,000 each. The aggregate value of these works are estimated at US$4 million.
(1 0) Works required for the Integrated Sanitation Program sub-component may be procured in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
C. Vehicles
(1 )Vehicles: The number of vehicle required at any point of time will be small and the procurement is
scattered in several ULBs. Hence, procurement would be effected in packages of value less than the
equivalent of US$100,000 per package following generally Director General Supplies and Disposals
(DGS&D) rate contracts or by National Shopping procedures. The aggregate ceiling is estimated at US$0.7
million. Packages valued more than US$100,000 will be invited under ICB bids.
D. Goods and Equipment
(1) International Competitive Bidding (ICB): ICB will be adopted for packages over US$500,000.
(2) National Competitive Bidding (NCB): NCB will be adopted for packages up to US$500,000.
(3) Shopping Procedures: Shopping procedures will be followed for packages valued up to US$100,000 up to
an aggregate ceiling of US$ 3 million. DGS&D rate contracts will be accepted under shopping. Rate contracts
of State Government will be accepted as one quotation. Generally at least three quotations should be obtained
under shopping to ensure competitive prices. Under International Shopping, quotations should be solicited
from at least three suppliers in two different countries.



Page 44
(4) Direct Contractinig: Direct contracting will be resorted for procurement of satellite imagery (from national
Remote Sensing Agency of the GOI which is the sole supplier), computer software, audio, video cassettes,
books, periodicals and other proprietary items etc, up to an aggregate of US$3 million.
(5) Goods required for the Integrated Sanitation Program sub-component may be procured in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
E. Consultancies. Quality Cost Based System (QCBS) will be generally followed:
(1) Sole Source Basis: Consultancies valued less than US$100,000 may be awarded on sole source basis, with
the Bank's prior agreement.
(2) Least cost selection: Least cost selection will be applied for assignments of a standard routine nature
(audits, enginieering design, procurement/inspection agent, etc) valued up-to US$200,000 and under in each up
to aggregate ceiling of US$8 million.
(3) Most TA assignments for sub-project preparation are small size (average US$10,000). The TNUIFS will
prepare standard job descriptions and identify qualified consultants for being engaged by the ULBs to provide
consultancy services for sub-project preparation costing approximately on an average US$10,000 each, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000, as per procedures and terms of employment acceptable to the
Bank.
(4) Short list selection among national consultants: Short list selection among national consultant will be
applied to the consulting assignments valued up to US$200,000.
(5) Short list selection among international consultants: Short list selection among international consultants
will be applied to all consulting assignments valued above US$200,000.
(6) NDO model documents (Government of India/Task Force GOITF cleared) will be used for all
procurement.
F. Procurement under BOOT/BOO:
(i) The entreprenieur under the BOO/BOT/ BOOT or similar type of contract shall be selected in accordance
with paragraph 3.13 (a) of Procurement Guidelines. The entrepreneur wi ll then be free to use their owIn
procurement procedures for procurement of goods and works.
Procurement methods and prior review tlhresholds are shown in Table A and Table B, respectively.
G. Assessment of Procurement Management System
I. The Bank reviewed the procurement/project management system of the TNUIFS and the PMU to
determine whether the systems are in conformity with the Bank's guidelines for procurement in the investment
projects. Following the agreement with the Bank during appraisal, the TNUIFS has taken the following
measures to strengthen its procurement management capacity:
(i)  The TNUIFS appointed a procurement management expert (with engineering background and not less
than 15 years experience including 5 years experience in the Bank procurement procedures) and one
support engineer staff to assist the procurement management expert in monitoring and providing guidance
on procurement to various ULBs;
(ii) The TNUIFS selected and identified a panel of procurement consultants who will visit ULBs and assess,
at the time of sub-project appraisal, the institutional procurement capacity of ULBs (starting with those



Page 45
plannling major procurement) to (a) follow procedure as per Bank's guideliles, (b) identify the steps
needed to be taken by them on streamlining the systems and procedures followed, strengthening of staff
required, provide training required and (c) advise the TNUIFS for follow up; and
(iii) The TNUIFS selected and identified a panel of technical auditors (engineering consultants) who could be
deputed, at the time of sub-project appraisal, to inspect the projects to conduct technical audits of
contracts under implementation to ensure quality and provide the TNUIFS their recommendations for
corrective action necessary.
In addition, the TNUIFS and the Bank agreed that the TNUIFS shall include in the loan agreement with
ULBs, that ULBs agree to implement recommendations of procurement consultant referred to above on
streamlining of procurement systems and procedures/strengthening of staff within an agreed time-frame.
2. The Bank found that the TNUIFS's system and that of the PMU satisfy the minimum procurement
management requirements and can provide the appropriate data on major procurement (Project Management
Report/PMR - section 1II ) as required by the Bank.
3. The PMU is a new unit in charge of the ID component and Integrated Sanitation Program sub-component.
Its administrative staff with Engineer with public procurement background will be in charge of the
procurement under the supervision of the PMU Director. Although the PMU is a new unit, it would be able to
manage the procurement of the above components as most of the procurement are relatively small TA and
investment for sanitation. In addition, the TNUIFS will extend necessary support to the PMU. The GOTN, the
TNUIFS and the Bank have agreed on the format of the Procurement Management Report which is available in
the project file.
XI. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT of TNUDP II
A. Introduction
I. This section covers the project related financial management systems (FMS) for two separate categories:
(a) the on-lending category (OLC) and (b) the non-lending category (NLC)"1. OLC (Line of Credit sub-
component of the Urban Investment Component) will be implemented by the TNUDF while NLC (Integrated
Sanitation Program sub-component of the Urban Investment Component and the Institutional Development
component) will be implemented by the PMU in the Department of Municipal Administration and Water
Supply (DMAWS). The section also addresses the suitability of the Project to participate in the Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) of the Bank.
B. The On-lending Category (OLC).
2. The TNUDF is an ongoing entity and hence a review of it's present (and proposed - an ongoing exercise)
FMS will be useful to assess the adequacy of the system for the project. Discussions on the following topics
are included in the project working papers in the project file and are summarized below. The TNUIFS's
present organizational structure and staffing and the proposed changes under the projec t2; accounting;
financial policies; financial information system; internal control; and auditing. The working papers also
include copies of the extended correspondence that the Bank had with the TNUDF on the audited accounts for
1996/97; the draft accounts for 1997/98; the audit requirements of the Bank including preparation of the
Management Letter by the Auditor; and the draft annlual and medium/long term forecasts of the TNUDF.
' This categorization (OLC and NLC) is from the financial management point of view and different from the
categorization of the project component described in C I of PAD main text and its Annex (Institutional
Development component and Urban Investment component).
12 The proposed changes are also reflected in the PAD, para E-4-(a)-(ii).



Page 46
3. Organization and Staffing: The present regular professional staff of the TNUIFS consists of the CEO and
eight others -- 4 each for Projects (lending and monitoring) and Finance (accounting and financial
management). In addition, two experienced engineering advisors support the Projects function.
4. In order to be ready to meet the requirements of increased lending and that of LACI under the proposed
project, the TNUIFS management has agreed to strengthen it's staffing. The numbers of professional staff has
been increased by 8 persons and, in addition, an Internal Auditor has been appointed. For the Finance vice-
presidency, there has been an increase of five staff members, two of whom will work on the LACI
requirements. The functional responsibilities within this vice-presidency have been realigned, taking into
account these additions.
5. Accounting and Financial Reporting System: The present accounting and financial management
information system, inherited from the MUDF, is on the cash basis. Management has contracted a firm of
Chartered Accountants to develop a new financial information system for the TNUDF.
6. Considerable progress has been made on the above system which will generate accounting information on
an accrual basis, facilitate production of monthly, quarterly accounts and so on, and provide for other key
management reports such as on loans as they proceed through the stages of application, sanction, disbursement
and repayment. Management should design, specify and program the various management reports required.
The new system will be implemented by Loan Effectiveness after certification of the suitability and
appropriateness of the system by an independent specialist agency, acceptable to the Bank, that is competent
in financial management information systets. The certification should be preceded by satisfactory
completion of at least one month's operation of the system in parallel witli the existing system
7. Financial policies: A number of accounting policies and procedures have been prepared as part of the
process of specifying the new financial information system. Investment policies have also been prepared.
Additional policies are required on: (a) how loans are to be classified and loan loss provisions are to be booked
in the monthly financial statements; (b) the basis on which financial statements are to be prepared (i.e. norms
for lndiani financial institutions, moving to international accounting standards in due course); and (c) the
levying of penal interest. The various financial policies, including additions required, should be organized into
one comprehensive financial manual .
8. Lending Policies and Procedures: The TNUDF has a satisfactory Lending Policy Statement (see Annex 2,
Attachment 2), which includes the following subjects:
*  General Policies-foreign exchange exposure, liquidity, exposure limit, security, loan coverage and
default;
*  Lending terms- loan period including grace period and interest including overdue interest;
*  Lending criteria-eligible borrowers and projects, and eligible items for finalncing;
*  Lending Procedures-application, initial screening, appraisal, sanction/disbursement, monitoring and ex-
post evaluation.
Some issues relating to lending and monitoring procedures are discussed below under "Internal Control".
9. Internal Control: Generally, internal control is satisfactory in the TNUDF. However, with the growth of
the Fund, some aspects require regularization and strengthening. These include loan appraisal and approval,
loan and security documentation, monitoring of sub-borrower performance, and human resource developmnent.
Management is addressing these concerns and taking action on the above matters.
1 0. Most sub-borrowers' accounting systems and standards are not uniformly established and their financial
reporting systems require improvement. In fact, only Chennai Municipal Corporation follows the accrual
system of accounting. Technical assistance is being provided by the TNUIFS to improve the above systems.
A review of the compliance of sub-borrowers with the audit requirements shows that in almost all cases,



Page 47
including the largest sub-borrowers, Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai, the statutory Local Fund Audit
Reports (by Government Auditors) are overdue, and it is unrealistic to expect a satisfactory turnaround in the
near future.
I 1. Meanwlhile, as a minimum, the ULBs should have adequate internal control, accounting and reporting
systems to provide accurate and timely information on the progress of the sub-projects financed by the
TNUDF. Hence, it was agreed with the TNUIFS that its "Lending Policies and Procedures" would be amended
as follows:
Under Lending criteria, the following additional clause was inserted in C 3, Eligible Borrowers:
"Should have, as a minimum, adequate internal control, accounting and financial management systems to
produce information and reports on the implementation performance of the project being financed. The
systems slhould provide for accurate and timely reports on the accounts (Source and Uses of funds) of the
project and the physical performance of the key project components. In case ULBs do not meet this
requirement, the TNUDF should set, as conditions of sanction/disbursement of the sub-loan, time bound action
plans for implementation."
The TNUIFS should also modify it's present progress reporting formats ( which differ for each sector or type
of lending) to meet the above requirements.
12. In addition, the TNUIFS has agreed that:
*  for all sub-projects, sub-borrowers should continue to provide "project accounts" showing sources
and uses of funds in sufficient detail. However, for projects costing Rs 8 Crores or over the project
accounts should be audited by an independent auditor whose terms of reference should be acceptable
to the TNUDF. These audited project accounts should be forwarded to the TNUIFS within 6 months
of the end of the applicable fiscal years of the concerned entities; and
*  The TNUIFS will take steps to have a condition for future lending to its 3 largest borrowers
presently, Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore, that their anniual audits by the Local Fund Auditors
would be brought up to date by December 2000 (i.e., audits up to the fiscal year ending March 2000)
and that thereafter, the audits would be completed within 9 months of the end of each fiscal year.
13. Investmenit Management: Investment income accounted for a significant percentage of the TNUDF's
income in 1997/98 and this trend is expected to continue for some time. The Trust's Board has approved a
policy statement covering:
the preferred type of investments to be made;
the preferred entities in which investments can be made; and
*   an investment authority matrix defining authority levels and limits.
14.  Audits: Due to the transition from the MUDF to the TNUDF and the concurrent change in auditors, the
audited accounts of the entire "Group" of entities and the reports for the period ended March 31, 1997 were
issued only in May 1998. However, the audits of the TNUDF, TNUIFS and TNUITC for 1997/98 have
already been completed and the reports have been issued.
15. The present accounting presentation and the audit of the TNUDF are done in accordance with Indian
statutory standards. The TNUDF is moving the presentation of its accounts towards international standards.
1 6. Project-related audit requirements are further discussed in para 30.



Page 48
Project Management and Reporting for OLC
17. The overall organization and staffing of the TNUDF has been, and is being strengthenied. While there
will be nio formal "Project Management Unit/PMU" as such for OLC, a unit with two additional officers has
been ereated (see para. 4). This unit is responsible for the administration and implementation of the LACI
requirements including preparation of the project related budgets, accounts, and the required reports (see
para. 20). These two officers report to the Vice President, Finance, who supervises this unit closely. The unit
also liaises with the Projects Vice Presidents on a continuous basis.
18. Flow of funds: Bank funds will be channeled througl GOI, which will operate the Project's Special
Account and bear the foreign exchange risk. GOI provides to the GOTN 70% of Bank loan amount in the
form of loan and 30% of the Bank loan in the form of grant. The GOTN will, in turn, on-lend the funds to the
TNUDF under a subsidiary loan agreement. Under the LACI system, the TNUDF's requirements for the first
six montlhs will be advanced on the basis of it's budget request to the Bank. Subsequent reimbursements will
be made, following the LACI model, on the basis of the Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs-- see
para. 20).
19. Project Accounts and Audit: Separate project accounts, including a separate Bank account, will be
maintained by the TNUDF to record project-related financial transactions. The final accounts will consist of a
Statemenit of Sources and Uses of Funds (see para. 20 a).
20. Project Management Reports-PMRs for OLC. The following statements will be prepared quarterly by
the TNUDF/TNUIFS (their formats are available in project file):
Finiancial Statements
(a) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds;
(b) Analysis of Use of Funds by Sub-Sectors;
(c) Cash Withdrawal Statement; and
(d) Cash Forecast.
Output Monitoring Reports
(e) Sanctionis and Disbursements;
(f) Statement of Loan Disbursement by Sector; and
(g) Statemiient of Sanctioned Sub-Loan.
The above statements, along witlh the related Procurement Management Reports (para. I G-(2) of this Annex)
would be sent quarterly to the Controller of Aid Accounts and Audit (CAAA) with copy to the GOTN to
account for the advance already received.
C. The Non Lending Category (NLC) 13
21. This category will consist of grants for the following sub-components:
(I) Institutional Development Component (IDC): Total project costs are estimated at US$20.95 million to be
finaniced as follows: Bank US$18.95 million and the GOTN/ULBs US$2 million.
(i)  Sub-component 1: Capacity building of ULBs-US$11.5 million (IBRD US$10 million, ULBs $1.5
million)-This sub-component will strengthen the managerial, finanicial and technical capacity of
ULBs through ULB Assessment, Preparation of ULB City Corporate Plans, Training, and Study
Tours, etc.;
See Annex 2 and Project Implementation Plan for a detailed description of the two main sub components under
this head.



Page 49
(ii) Sub-component 2: Capacity Building of DMAWS- US$0.25 million (IBRD US$0.25 million)-
Capacity building of DMAWS will consists of staff training and purchase of equipment and library
materials;
(iii) Sub-component 3: TA to TNUDF and selected ULB to raise resources from the domestic capital
market-US$0.5 million (IBRD US$0.5 million);
(iv) Sub-component 4: TA to municipalities for project preparation and implementation and
recruitment of outside experts-US$5 million (IBRD US$5million);
(v) Sub-component 5: Staffing and incremental operation costs of PMU14-US$1.5 million (IBRD
US$1 million, GOTN US$0.5 million); and
(vi) Institutional Development Activities to be identified during the project implementation- US$2.2
million (IBRD US$2.2 million)
(2) Integrated Sanitation Prograrn sub-component of the Urban Investment Component (ISP). Total project
costs are estimated at US$ 10 million to be financed as follows: Bank $5.0 million; and GOTN/ULB 5.0
million. Assistance will be provided for:
(i) Investment facilities for Public Sanitation, Sullage and Garbage Receiving and Collection; and
(ii) Management and Operating Costs including Consultancies, NGO expenses, and Community
Education.
Implementation
22. The IDC, except for Sub-component 4 (TA to municipalities for project preparation and implemenitation
to be managed by the TNUIFS) and ISP will be implemented by the new PMU in the DMAWS. The GOTN
has nominated the Project Director of the PMU and recruited other staff.
23. Institutional Development Component (IDC): The PMU will implement all the sub-components except
for Technical Assistance to Municipalities for Project Preparation and Implementation (see para. 21 (1) (iv)),
which will be managed by the TNUIFS. The PMU staffing includes a Financial Controller who is a Chartered
Accountant with several years post qualification experience including a few years in a senior management
capacity. He is responsible for the entire financial management of the PMU component, including preparation
of a Financial Management Manual for the NLC component (see para. 28). The Controller is complemented
by an Assistant Accountant and a senior Administrative and Procurement Officer with a public sector
procurement experience.
24. Integrated Sanitation Program sub-component (ISP): Overall management of this component will be
done by the PMU. The investment activities of ISP (see para. 21 (2) will be implemented by selected ULBs
under supervision and monitoring by the PMU. Recruitment of the consultants and NGOs will be undertaken
by both the PMU and selected ULBs.
25. Flow of Funds: The arrangements would be similar to those for OLC ( see para. 18), except that the
GOTN would pass the funds (the Bank's as well as it's own contributions) to the PMU as a Grant through a
specific budgetary allocation. This allocation would cover both IDC's and ISP's requirements. Based on the
individual budget requests, the GOTN would advance the first six months' requirements to the PMU, which, in
turn, would: retain the amounts required for it's own budgets, and pass on the balance to the Grant Fund (for
it's share of the IDC component) and to the sub-implementing agencies of ISC (ULBs) (for their shares of the
latter component). Subsequent reimbursements will follow the LACI scheme as in the case of OLC.
14 Since the PMU is a new Unit, the entire expenditure will be "incremental".



Page 50
Project Management and Reporting of NLC
26. NLC Project Accounts: The main project accounts for NLC would be mailtained at the PMU. The
accounting records would be kept manually at first (then computerized later), and the system would follow the
double-entry methodology. All sources (e.g. Bank and the GOTN) and utilization of funds would be recorded
according to project receipts and expenditures classifications (see PAD Annex 2 and PIP). An appropriate
chart of accounts would be designed for this purpose by the Financial Controller. The Grant Fund would
maintain similar records within the TNUIFS's computerized system. It would have a separate Bank
Account/cash book and a separate ledger to record project related transactions. The LACI financial officer in
the TNUIFS will prepare the PMRs for this sub-component.
27. ISP: There will be several implementing sub-agencies for ISC (ULBs). All funds will be routed from the
PMU direct to the implementers (ULBs) who would maintain their individual (separate) records of sources
and application of funds according to project classifications.
28. Financial Management Manual of NLC: The PMU is taking steps to design a Finanicial Management
Manual covering all components other than that of the Grant Fund. This manual would cover: (a)
organization and staffing for the financial management functions; (b) accounting systems and internal control
mechanisms; (c) budgeting and financial reporting (including formats of FMSs); (d) chart of accounts; (e)
flow of funds; and (f) auditing arrangements including TOR for the auditors. Preparation of the Financial
Management Manualfor the NLC component, acceptable to thle Bank, is a condition of Loan
Effectiveness. Draft TOR for preparation of the Financial Management Manual of NLC is available in project
file.
29. Project Management Reports-PMRs for NLC Each implementing agency (the TNUIFS regarding TA
sub-component for project preparation and implementation through the Grant Fund; ULBs regarding the
lntegrated Sanitation Program sub-component; and the PMU for Institutional Development Component except
TA sub-component for project preparation and implementation) would prepare it's own quarterly reports. The
quarterly reports include:
(i) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds;
(ii) Uses of Funds by Activity;
(iii) Cash Withdrawal Statement;
(iv) Cash Forecast;
(iv) Procurement Management Report; and
(vi) Output Monitoring Report.
The PMU will consolidate the reports submitted by each implementing agency and prepare a master Project
Management Report for NLC.
D. Audit Requirement
30. The GOI, GOTN and TNUDF will submit to the Bank the following audit reports prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year. In
case of the project accounts, the accounts to be audited would be the Statements of Sources and Uses of Funds.
Model Terms of Reference (TOR) for the audits of the project accounts is in the project file.
(i) The GOI will submit the audit report of the Special Account. The audit report on Special Account
maintained by the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) would include a summary of SA
transactions and the closing balance held by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI);
(ii) The GOTN (the PMU) will submit the audit report of the Project Account for the sub-component of
TA for project preparation and implementation (through the Grant Fund) under the ID component;
(iii) The GOTN (PMU) will submit the audit report of the Project Account of the PMU; and



Page 51
(iv) The TNUDF will submit the audit report of its financial statements and the audit report the project
account for the line of credit sub-component of the Urban Investment Component (On-Lending
Category).
31. In addition, the TNUDF and the PMU will make their sub-borrowers and sub-implementing
agencies (ULBs) submit project accounts and their audit reports as follows:
(i)  For all sub-projects of the Line.of Credit sub-component, the TNUDF/TNUIFS will make sub-
borrowers provide "project accounts" showing sources and uses of funds in sufficient detail.
However, for projects costing_Rs 8 Crores or over the project accounts should be audited by an
independent auditor whose terms of reference should be acceptable to the TNUDF/TNUIFS;
(ii) For all sub-projects of the Integrated Sanitation Program, the PMU will make sub-implementing
agencies (ULBs) submit the audit reports of the "project accounts" showinig sources and uses of
funds in sufficient detail. The project accounts should be audited by an independent auditor whose
terms of reference should be acceptable to the PMU; and
(iii) The TNUDF/TNUIFS will take steps to have a condition for future lending to its three largest
borrowers presently, Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore, that their annual audits by the Local Fund
Auditors would be brought up to date by December 2000 (i.e., - audits up to the fiscal year ending
March 2000) and that thereafter, the audits would be completed not later than nine months after the
close of each fiscal year.
III. Disbursements
32. With the institution of the above systems and arrangements covering both the OLC and NLC components,
disbursements under the project would qualify for the application of the LACI procedures. However, to enable
all parties to become fully conversant with the new disbursement procedures, the use of Project Management
Reports (PMRs) as a basis for disbursements would commence from the end of the fourth calendar quarter
following the quarter in which the loan effectiveness date falls.
33. The proposed IBRD loan of US$105 million would finance expenditures incurred under the Institutional
Development component and the Urban Investment component. Table C shows the allocation of loan
proceeds by category and the disbursement percentages proposed in each category. Disbursements are
projected over a period of five years from July 1, 1999 for expenditures incurred or to be incurred over a'
period of 5 years. The estimated project completion date is May 31, 2004.
34. The proposed project is a follow up operation of TNUDP I which was closed in September 1997. During
the project preparation period, the GOTN and the TNUDF continued to finance sub-loans and technical
assistance grants in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. To expedite project start-up, Bank
would finance the eligible expenditures (sub-loans, TA for IDC and costs for ISP) incurred after June 1, 1998,
up to US$10.5 million, 10% of the proposed loan.
35. To facilitate disbursements of the proposed loan, a special account would be established with an
autlhorized allocation of US$10.4 million, equivalent to approximately four months estimated disbursemenit in
the peak year of disbursement, FY2000, in which disbursements are expected to be US$31.2 million.
Disbursement for contracts over the following limits will be on the basis of full documentation: consulting
firm- US$100,000; individual consultant- US$50,000; goods-US$500,000; and works- US$ 100,000.
Disbursement for all other expenditures will be made on the basis of statement of expenditures (SOEs).
Documentation supporting SOEs would be made available for review by Bank supervision missions.



Page 52
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category              Procurement Method                Total Cost (including
contingencies)
ICB     NCB          Other        N.B.F
I.D. Component
1. Services                                13.75          1                14.75
(13.75)                        (13.75)
2. Goods                                     3                               3
(3)                            (3)
3. Miscellaneous                            2.2            1                3.2
(2.2)                          (2.2)
Total                                     18.95          2               20.95
(18.95)                        (18.95)
UI Component
Line of Credit S-
Component
1. Civil Works                 99            4            45                148
(74)         (3)                            (77)
2. Goods                                     3             5                 8
(3)                            (3)
3. Miscellaneous                                          17                17
Sub-Total                     99            7           67                173
(74)         (6)                            (80)
ISP Sub-Component
1. Civil Works                               9                              9
(4.5)                          (4.5)
2. Miscellaneous                             1                               1
(0.5)                          (0.5)
Sub-Total                                  10                             10
(5)                            (5)
Total                        99            17           67                183
(74)         (I1)                           (85)
Grand Total                  99          35.95          69              203.95
(74)       (29.95)                        (103.95)
Note: N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan



Page 53
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure       Contract Value       Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category          (Threshold)           Method             Prior Review
1. Civil Works
More than           ICB                All
US$l0million
More than US$      NCB                  More than US$500,000
30,000 up to US$10
million
up to US$ 30,000   NS                  None
2. Goods
Goods except        more than           ICB                 All
vehicles            US$500,000
more than          NCB                 None
US$ 100,000-and up
to US$500,000
up to US$100,000   NS                  None
Vehicles            more than           ICB                 All
US$100,000
up to US$100,000   NS                  None
3. Services
More than           International shortlist  All
US$200,000
more than          National shortlist   All
US$100,000 up to
US$200,000
up to US$100,000    Least Cost/Single   Single Source and
N.B                 Source              Individual Consultants
to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more
N.B. Services for audits, engineering design, procurement and inspection inquiry estimated to cost less
than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured according to the least cost selection method.



Page 54
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$         Financing
million          Percentage
(i)sub-loan under the Urban Investment            80                 100%
Component
(ii) capital grant under the Integrated Sanitation  4.5              100%
Program;
(iii) T/A Grant through the Grant Fund for sub-   5.0                100%
project preparation and implementation by ULBs
(iv) Goods and equipment under the Institutional   3          1 00% of foreign
Development Component                                         expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(v). Consultancy services, technical assistance  8.25                100%
and training under the Institutional Development
Component and the Integrated Sanitation
Program
(vi) PMU Operation Costs                           l          80% through
March31, 2001,60%
from April 1, 2001
through March 31,
2003, 50% thereafter
(vii) Fee                                        1.05                100%
(viii) Unallocated                                2.2
Total Loan Amount                                 105



Page 55
Attachment 1 of Annex 6
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO NCB-BASED PROCUREMENT
(1)  The model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task Force
[and as amended from time to- time], shall only be used for bidding.
(2)  Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
(3)  No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given State, etc.
(4)  Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank, there shall be no negotiation of price with
the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
(5)  Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank (I)
for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (2) for all subsequent
requests for extension irrespective of the period.
(6)  Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank. The system
of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or 'bracket' of prices shall not be used.
(7)  Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under National
Shopping procedures. [For International Shopping procedures, quotations should also be
invited from one or more foreign suppliers for comparison with DGS&D contracts./"



Page 56
Annex 7
TNUDP II
Salient Features of the Urban Sector Reforms in Tarn il Nadu
1. The State of Tamil Nadu is ahead of most States in India in the implementation of the urban reforms
envisaged under the 74th Constitutional Amendment (Nagar Palika Act). It has introduced major reforms in
the legislative framework regulating the functioning and financing of urban local bodies (ULBs).
Legislative Framework
2. There are seven statutes which govern the administration of urban local bodies in Tamil Nadu -- one for
each of the six Municipal Corporations (Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Trichy, Salem, and Tirunelveli) and
one for the Municipalities and Town Panchayats. Of the 7 statutes, the Clhennai Municipal Corporation (CMC)
Act is the oldest, passed in 1919. The Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act is also fairly old, passed in
1920. All the subsequent Acts for the other Municipal Corporations are based on the CMC Act. Until as late
as 1994, town panchayats were governed by the Town Panchayats Act, 1958. They were considered more
"~rural" than "urban. However, in 1994, all town panchayats, irrespective of their population and income, wete
brought under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920. The State is currently attempting to
reclassify some of these panchayats which lack the basic characteristics of a transitional urban area into major
panchlayats, thus bringing them under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994.
3. The Government of Tamil Nadu has recently secured the approval of the State Assembly for a common Bill
for Urban Local Bodies. The Bill will become effective after the approval of the President of India. There
would be no major problem for this procedure as the GOTN had already consulted the GOI on the contents of
the draft Bill. The new Bill is simple and comprehensive and include provision whiclh would enable ULBs to
fLnctioni more effectively.
4. Prior to the passage of the 74th CA, at least 50% of ULBs in India were superseded by the State. Tamil
Nadu was no exception. For example, the Chennai Municipal Corporation did not have an elected body for 23
years. Municipal laws did not have any mandatory provision for the conduct of local body elections until the
provision of the 74th CA Act were incorporated into the same by the State Government in 1994. The State
now has an independent State Election Commission, which has the responsibility of conducting elections to all
local bodies in the state. As mandated by the 74th CA, the state laws provides for a reservation for women
(30%), scheduled casts and scheduled tribes, in the offices of Councilors and Clhairpersons of local bodies.
5. To decentralize administration, Ward Committees have been forned in ULBs with a population larger than
300,000. The 1994 amendment to the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 gives ULBs the
responsibility to prepare plans for economic development and social justice, and with other responsibilities
listed in Sclhedule X of the Tamil Nadu District Municipal Act, 1920 as amended in 1994. The Chennai City
Municipal Corporation Act, 1919 was amended by the Tamil Nadu Municipal Corporation (Amendment and
Special Provisions) Act, 1994 to reflect the same provisions. Schedule X of the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act 1920 (as amended in 1994), and Schedule XI of the Cheninai City Municipal Corporation
Act, 1919 (as amended in 1994) include 15 functions from among 18 entries included in the 12th Schedule of
the Constitution, the exceptions being urban planning, including town planninig, regulation of land use and
construction of buildings and fire services. These Schedules were further amended by the Tamil Nadu
MLunicipal Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 1996 to include these two additional functionis.
6. The new Urban Local Bodies Bill contains provisions allowing ULBs to enter into public-private sector
partnerships in thie delivery of urban services, such as solid waste management.



Page 57
Municipal Finanice
7. Together with several provisions supporting local democratization, the 74th CA also provides for measures
to ensure the eventual local fiscal autonomy of municipalities in India. In this regards, the State Finance
Commission was constituted in Tamil Nadu which reviewed the financial positions of both the municipalities
and panchayats in the State, and made recommendations to the Governor as to the principles which should
govern the: (a) distribution between State.and municipalities of the net proceeds of taxes, duties, tolls and fees
leviable by the State which may be divided between them and the allocation between the Municipalities; (b)
the determination of the taxes, duties, tolls and fees which may be assigned to, or appropriated by, the
municipalities; and (c) the decisions regarding the grants-in-aid to the municipalities from the consolidated
fund of the state. The SFC also recommends measures to improve the finanicial position of the municipalities.
The Report of the SFC has already been tabled in the State Legislature and Action Reports have been prepared
by the respective departments.
8. The Government of Tamil Nadu has accepted and implemented key recommendations of the State Finance
Commission on the devolution of funds. The major recommendations which have been accepted are as
follows:
(a) 90 % of the entertainment tax shall be assigned to the local bodies from 1997-1998 as against 50% in
earlier years;
(b) 8% of the total revenue from all state taxes excluding the entertainment tax shall be transferred to the
local bodies from 1997-98; and
(c) Of (b) above, 15% would be set aside in an Equalization and Incentive Fund, for correcting
deficiencies arising out of the implementation of the principles of distribution and to continue the
incentive grants for improving local tax collection efforts. Allocation of these funds between rural
and urban would be 55:45, respectively. Of the remaining balance of 85%, 45% would be devolved
to urban local bodies based on specific criteria.
9. With regards to the ULBs' own revenues, property and profession taxes have historically been the most
important sources of revenue for local bodies. Property tax accounts for about one-third of the total revenue
and 90 percent of the total tax revenues. The new Bill provides for a more rational basis for assessing property
values using an area-linked valuation system based on the carpet area of the building, with provisions for
variations in taxes depending on the type of use, nature, age and location of the property. This system has
already been introduced in Coimbatore. Municipalities have been empowered in the new Bill to disconnect
water supply in the event of non-payment of property taxes. Taxation of vacant land has also been provided
for in the Bill.
10. The new Bill introduces new sources of revenues for ULBs, including a new tax on advertisement, levies
on roads and bridges, penalties for late payments and unauthorized construction, fees on motor vehicles
entering pilgrim or tourist resorts; parking fee, and license card for trades and business.
l l.  The new Bill also allows ULBs to borrow money through debentures by raising monies from banks,
financial institutions and other agencies. A sinking fund would be created. to ensure repayment. Priority
would be given to meet debt servicing requirements. In the event of default, grants may be intercepted to
repay the loan. The Bill provides for the appointment of a separate audit agency for a specific period .



Page 58
Annex 8
TNUDP II
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned              Actual
401,500             250,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          13                   19
First Bank mission (identification)             09/15/1997           09/15/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     06/01/1998           10/03/1998
Negotiations                                    07/20/1998           02/22/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/30/1998           07/31/1999
Prepared by: Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply, GOTN
TNUDF)/TNUIFS
Preparation assistance: Nil
Bank Staff who worked on the project included:
Hiroaki Suzuki (Team Leader)
Kim Cuenco (Urban Economic/Inst. Dev.)
K. Arichandran (Financial Analysis)
P. Illangovan (ESR Env./SWMgt/UGS)
1.U.B. Reddy (ESR. Social/Social Development)
Mike Wills (Accounting/MIS)
Masakazu Nakao (UGS)
Juan Costain (Capital Market Issue)
George Peterson (Bond Issuance)
Edward McBean (UGS/SWM/sub-projects)
Syed Ahmed (Legal Aspect)
N. Raman (Procurement)
William. B. Marke (LACI/Disbursement)
Sanjay Vani (LACI/Disbursement)
Ruby Miller (LACI/Disbursement)
Graeme Lee (India Urban Cluster Leader)
Richard Beardmore (India, Actg. Urban Cluster Leader)
William Dillinger (Peer Reviewer)
Om Mathur (Peer Reviewer)
Keshav Varma (Peer Reviewer)
Earl Kessler (Advisor)
Sonia Hammam (Advisor)
Samil El Daher (Advisor)
Lalhlimpuii Gardner (Team Assistant)



Page 59
Annex 9
TNUDP II
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
-Institutional Development Component
-Urban Investment Component including the Integrated Sanitation Program (ISP)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
-ICR of the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project I
-Back to Office Report of the Appraisal Mission including the mission's aide-memoire
-Financial Analysis of the TNUDF
Other:
Analysis on Borrowing Capacities of ULBs
Tamil Nadu Urban Local Bodies Bills
Draft City Corporate Plans (Coimbatore and Tiruppur)
Draft Project Management Report Format for LACI
Draft Procurement Management Format
Draft Model TOR for the audit of the project account
Draft TOR for preparation of the manual for the financial management system of PMU
Communication on the audits of the TNUDF for FY96/97 and FY97/98
Environmental and Social Report (ESR)
Draft TOR for TA for the TNUDF and selected ULBs in raising resources from the domestic capital
market and their time-bound action program
Integrated Sanitation Program Draft TOR for the Partner Organization
Operation Manual of the TNUDF
Grant Fund Guidelines
Performance Indicators of the Project
FY96/97 Audits Reports of the TNUDF, FY97/98 Audits Report of the TNUDF, the TNUIFS as well as the
auditor's management letter.
TNUIFS's staffing plan
TNUDF's sub-project pipeline and their disbursement schedule
Lending Policies and Procedure of the TNUDF
Government Order setting up the Grant Fund
The Grant Fund Guideline
Grant Fund Management Agreement
TNUDF Operational Manual
TNUDF Contribution Agreement



Page 60
Annex 10
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
Operations Portfolio
(As of March 31, 1999)
Difference Between Expected
and Actual
Original Amount in US$             Disbursements a/                Last PSR
Millions                                              Supervision Rating
b/
Project ID  Fiscal            Purpose                                                      Using       Using
Year                                  IBRD       IDA    Cancel.  Undisb   Original   Formal.   Develop.    Implem.
Esti-     Revised    Objec-    Progress
mates       Est.       Tives
Number of Closed Projects: 331
Active Projects
IN-PE-9869    1989  NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO            485.00        0.00    0.00     111.65      111.63       0.00      5         S
IN-PE-9982    1990  NOR REG TRANSMISSION           485.00        0.00    0.00     178.66      178.65       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9988    1991   TECH EDUCATION II               0.00      307.10  51.37       75.02      133.42      55.61      S         S
IN-PE-9877    1991  DAM SAFETY                      23.00      130.00  60.03        25.81      84.17      -4.50      S         S
IN-PE-10390   1992  MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY             0.00      124.00   16.18       34.18      49.91      33.23      S         S
IN-PE-9963    1992  POPULATION VIII                  0.00       79.00    0.00       55.86      51.17       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9946    1992  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS II           153.00      153.00    0.00     154.13       91.19       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9921    1992   SHRIMP & FISH CULTURE           0.00       85.00  48.51        16.05      63.78      15.17     U          S
IN-PE-10424   1993  NATL LEPROSY ELIMIN.             0.00       85.00    9.07      24.71       32.15       4.44      S        HS
IN-PE-10418   1993  KARNATAKA WS & ENV/SAN           0.00       92.00    0.00       31.64      29.26       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10416   1993   PGC POWER SYSTEM              350.00        0.00    0.00     117.11      107.51       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10410   1993  RENEWABLE RESOURCES             75.00      115.00    0.00       70.78      97.72       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10408   1993   BIHAR PLATEAU                   0.00      117.00    0.00       51.37      57.45       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10407   1993  ADP - RAJASTHAN                  0.00      106.00    0.00      22.98       23.17       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9977    1993   ICDS II (BIHAR & NP)            0.00      194.00    0.00     118.38       83.30      93.67     U          U
IN-PE-9961    1993  UP SODIC LANDS RECLAM            0.00       54.70    0.00       12.94       7.24       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9959    1993  RUBBER                           0.00       92.00  36.58       23.19       55.39      11.79      S         S
IN-PE-9955    1993  UTTAR PRADESH BASIC ED           0.00      165.00    0.00       21.79      -9.14   -142.42       S         S
IN-PE-10457   1994   POPULATION IX                   0.00       88.60    0.00       50.16      17.61       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10455   1994  BLINDNESS CONTROL                0.00      117.80    0.00      81.38       35.60       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10449   1994  ANDHRA PRADESH FOREST.           0.00       77.40    0.00      25.54       12.19       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10448   1994   FORESTRY RESEARCH ED             0.00      47.00    0.00       22.43      38.17       4.22      S         S
IN-PE-9964    1994  WATER RES CONS.HARYANA            0.00     258.00    0.00      147.93      78.87       0.00     U          U
IN-PE-9870    1994  CONTAINER TRANSPORT             94.00        0.00    0.00       73.23      67.24       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10563   1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV           700.00        0.00  200.0      266.97    -233.03        0.00               S
0
IN-PE-10522   1995  ASSAM RURAL INFRASTR.            0.00      126.00    0.00       97.64      39.14       0.00     U          U
IN-PE-10506   1995  MP FORESTRY                      0.00       58.00    0.00       19.06       7.61       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10503   1995  AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT             0.00       59.50    0.00      33.64       26.20       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10489   1995  AP 1ST REF. HEALTH SYS            0.00     133.00    0.00       66.14       9.05       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10476   1995   TAMIL NADU WRCP                 0.00      282.90    0.00     211.95      105.73       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10464   1995  DISTRICT PRIMARY ED               0.00     260.30    0.00     127.92       33.10       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10463   1995   INDUS POLLUTION PREVEN        143.00       25.00    0.00     144.82       80.56       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10461   1995  MADRAS WATER SUP II            275.80        0.00  189.3        56.59     156.33       5.51      S         S
0
IN-PE-43310   1996   COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.             0.00      63.00    0.00       45.55      14.17       0.00     U          U
IN-PE-39935   1996   ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE           200.00        5.00    0.00     179.22       98.09       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-35825   1996   STATE HEALTH SYS II              0.00     350.00    0.00     263.11       89.05       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-35821   1996  DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2              0.00     425.20    0.00      307.88       5.54       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-35170   1996  ORISSA POWER SECTOR            350.00        0.00    0.00      326.13      83.63       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10529   1996  ORISSA WRCP                       0.00     290.90   0.00       161.11      -2.82       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10485   1996  HYDROLOGY PROJECT                 0.00     142.00    0.00       94.62      45.74       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10484   1996  UP RURAL WATER                  59.60        0.00    0.00       50.24       7.83       0.00     HS         HS
IN-PE-10480   1996  B SEWAGE DISPOSAL              167.00       25.00    0.00      119.89      86.34       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-49301   1997  A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE             50.00      100.00    0.00      119.95      36.97       0.00      U         U
IN-PE-45600   1997   TA ST'S RD INFRA DEV            51.50       0.00   0.00        33.82      15.32       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-44449   1997  RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                 0.00      19.50    0.00       18.32       7.34       0.00      U         U
IN-PE-43728   1997  ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA              0.00      50.00    0.00       43.30       9.45       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-36062   1997   ECODEVELOPMENT                   0.00      28.00    0.00       22.54       2.86       0.00      U         U
IN-PE-35158   1997  AP IRRIGATION III              175.00      150.00    0.00     254.04       22.78       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10531   1997  REPRODUCTIVE HEALTHl              0.00     248.30    0.00     233.16       48.36       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10511   1997  MALARIA CONTROL                   0.00     164.80    0.00      152.45      20.61       0.00      S         U
IN-PE-10473   1997   TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL             0.00     142.40    0.00      128.63      46.59       0.00      S         U
IN-PE-9995    1997   STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)          350.00        0.00   0.00       327.32      27.32       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-50638   1998  UP BASIC ED II                    0.00      59.40    0.00       31.35      -6.98       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-49477   1998  KERALA FORESTRY                   0.00      39.00    0.00       35.25      -2.09       0.00      S_        S
IN-PE-49385   1998  AP ECON RESTRUCTURING          301.30      241.90    0.00     483.35      -61.49       0.00
IN-PE-38021   1998  DPEP III (BIHAR)                 0.00      152.00    0.00      139.31      16.56       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-35827   1998  WOMEN & CHILD DEVLP.             0.00      300.00    0.00     301.87        0.00       0.00
IN-PE-35824   1998  UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT             79.90       50.00    0.00     125.09       10.92       0.00
IN-PE-35169   1998  U.P. FORESTRY                    0.00       52.94    0.00       45.48       1.90       0.00      S         S



Page 61
Difference Between Expected
and Actual
Original Amount in US$             Disbursements a/                Last PSR
Millions                                              Supervision Rating
b/
Project ID  Fiscal            Purpose                                                      Using      Using
Year                                  IBRD      IDA    Cancel.  Undisb   Original   Formal.   Develop.   Implem.
Esti-     Revised    Objec-    Progress
mates       Est.       Tives
IN-PE-35160   1998  HARYANA POWER APL-I             60.00        0.00    0.00      41.33        9.32       0.00     S         BS
IN-PE-10561   1998  NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY             96.80      100.00    0.00     191.07        9.16       0.00
IN-PE-10496   1998  ORISSA HEALTH SYS                0.00       76.40    0.00       73.56       -.03       0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9979    1998  COAL SECTOR REHAB              530.00        2.00   15.00     472.13       48.88       0.00     S          S
IN-PE-50651   1999  MAHARASH HEALTH SYS              0.00      134.00    0.00     129.77       -3.09       0.00
IN-PE-50646   1999  UP SODIC LANDS II                0.00      194.10    0.00     192.25        4.94       0.00
IN-PE-49537   1999  AP POWER APL I                 210.00        0.00    0.00     199.83      -10.17       0.00
Total                                             5,464.9    7,038.1  626.0    7,914.6    2,405.3          76.7
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              3,734.88           33,285.32          37,020.20
Of which has been repaid:                178.66          10,509.62           10,688.28
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             11,698.29           22,105.50          33,803.79
Amount sold                                       0.00             133.77              133.77
Of which repaid              :                0.00              133.77             133.77
Total Undisbursed               :            7,914.57               59.71           7,974.28
a. Estimated disbursements to date as projected at appraisal, or if disbursement estimate has
been formally revised, then revised disbursement estimate, minus actual disbursements to
date.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was
introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating
Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



Page 62
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US$ millions, as of February 28, 1999)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company        Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1964/75/79/90      MUSCO                0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.08     0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HDFC                40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00   40.00     2.29     0.00    0.00
1981               Nagarjuna Steel      0.00     .07    0.00    0.00    0.00      .07     0.00    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96   ITW Signode       0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.55     0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92   TISCO                3.28   15.37    0.00    0.00    3.28    15.37     0.00    0.00
1981/90/93         M&M                   .33    6.49    0.00    1.33     .33     6.49     0.00    1.33
1984/90/94         India Lease          .66      .86    0.00    0.00     .66      .86     0.00    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge        12.68     .68    0.00    0.00   12.68      .68     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills       .48    0.00    0.00    0.00      .48     0.00     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-CECL             .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01     0.00     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-NB Footwear       .19    0.00    0.00    0.00     .19     0.00     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG               .37    0.00    0.00    0.00     .37     0.00     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-TAN               .03    0.00    0.00    0.00     .03     0.00     0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94      GESCO                0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.80     0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95      India Equipment       .38     .77    0.00     .93     .38      .77     0.00     .93
1987               Hindustan            4.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.03     0.00     0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      Titan Watches         .68    1.03    0.00    0.00     .68     1.03     0.00    0.00
1988/90/92         TataTelecom          0.00     .10    0.00    0.00    0.00      .10     0.00    0.00
1988/94            GKN Invel            0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.40     0.00    0.00
1989               AEC                 10.53    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.53     0.00     0.00    0.00
1989               UCAL                 0.00     .63    0.00    0.00    0.00      .63     0.00    0.00
1989/90/94         Tata Electric       27.22    0.00    0.00    0.00   27.22     0.00     0.00    0.00
1989/91            Gujarat State        4.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.46     0.00     0.00    0.00
1989/95            JSB India            0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.21     0.00    0.00
1990               HOEL                 0.00     .28    0.00    0.00    0.00      .28     0.00    0.00
1990               TDICI-VECAUS 11   0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00        1.41     0.00    0.00
1990/92            CESC                41.59    0.00    0.00   56.95   41.59     0.00     0.00   56.95
1990/93/94/98      IL & FS             18.75    6.23    1.81    6.00   18.75     6.23     1.81    6.00
1990/94            ICICI-IFGL           0.00     .30    0.00    0.00    0.00      .30     0.00    0.00
1990/95            ICICI-SPIC Fine      0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.88     0.00    0.00
1991               BSES                17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.50     0.00     0.00    0.00
1991/93            Triveni              0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.11     0.00    0.00
1991/96            VARUN                0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.35     0.00    0.00
1992               Indus VC Mgt Co      0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01     0.00    0.00
1992               Indus VCF            0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.00     0.00    0.00
1992               Info Tech Fund       0.00     .64    0.00    0.00    0.00      .64     0.00    0.00
1992               SKF Bearings         2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86     0.00     0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills         0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    17.10     0.00    0.00
1992/94/97         Ispat Industries    78.31    5.77    0.00   85.00   38.45     5.77     0.00    0.00
1992/95            IL&FS Venture        0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.05     0.00    0.00
1992/96/97         NICCO-UCO            6.31     .50    0.00    0.00    2.31      .50     0.00    0.00
1993/94/96         Indo Rama           19.68   11.98    0.00    7.87   19.68    11.98     0.00    7.87
1993/97            20TH Century        13.31     .80    0.00     .89   13.31      .80     0.00     .89
1994               Centurion Growth     0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.39     0.00    0.00
1994               Chowgule            13.42    4.58    0.00   21.09   13.42     4.58     0.00   21.09
1994               Crdcap Asset Mgt     0.00     .32    0.00    0.00    0.00      .32     0.00    0.00
1994               DLF Cement           8.80    4.94    0.00   12.75    8.80     4.94     0.00   12.75
1994               Gujarat Ambuja       0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00     8.23     0.00    0.00
1994               Taurus Starshare     0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00     7.17     0.00    0.00
1994/97            GVK                 28.33    7.45    0.00   33.98   28.33     7.45     0.00   33.98



Page 63
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company       Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1994/98            Global Trust        5.00    3.19    5.00    0.00    5.00     3.19     5.00    0.00
1995               Centurion Bank      0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00     3.87     0.00    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK           18.18    0.00    0.00    0.00   18.18     0.00     0.00    0.00
1995               GE Capital         10.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   10.00     4.39     0.00    0.00
1995               Prism Cement       15.00    5.02    0.00   12.00   15.00     5.02     0.00   12.00
1995               Rain Calcining     19.25    5.47    0.00    0.00   19.25     5.46     0.00    0.00
1995               SaraFund            0.00    6.12    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.60     0.00    0.00
1995/98            RPG                 0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.25     0.00    0.00
Communicatns
1996               India Direct Fnd    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     4.51     0.00    0.00
1996               Indus II            0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     3.00     0.00    0.00
1996               Indus Mauritius     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               United Riceland    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
1996/99            Moser Baer          4.00    2.14    0.00    0.00    4.00     2.14     0.00    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     5.50     0.00    0.00
1997               CEAT               20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Duncan Hospital     7.00     .84    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                0.00    .03    0.00    0.00    0.00      .03      0.00    0.00
1997               Owens Coming       25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               SAPL                0.00    .07    0.00    0.00    0.00       .07     0.00    0.00
1997               SREI               15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    8.00     3.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Walden-Mgt India    0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01     0.00    0.00
1997               WIV                 0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      .88     0.00    0.00
1998               IDFC                0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.46     0.00    0.00
1998               TCW/ICICI           0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     3.20     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:           502.62  226.29    6.81  238.79  429.76   205.40    6.81  153.79
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  IVCAAF           0.00    5.74   0.00     0.00
1999                  SARSHATALI    30.00    5.00   0.00       0.00
COAL
Total Pending Commitment:    30.00   10.74   0.00    0.00



Page 64
Annex 11
India at a glance                                                              4130/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             South     Low-
;ndia     Asia  income        Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                      976.9     1,289     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    390        390       360
GNP (Atlas method. US$ billions)                     381.0       502       722                        r
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                         1.7       1.9       2.1
Labor force (%)                                        2.0:      2.2       2.3      GNP                              Gross
per    I  - (0/6)  -I          primary
Most recent estimate Siatest year availab e, 1992-98)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationalpovert line)    35
Urban population (% of total population)               27         27        28
Life expectancy at birth (yearsi: 63                              62        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               63         71        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             66         ..                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulatiori)                 81         77        71
Illiteracyf(% ofpopulation age 15+)                    48         51        47
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  101         99        91      -     India  --Low-income group
Male                                                110        109       100
Female                                               90         89        81          :
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS,
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratiosa
GDP (US$ billions)                          102.7    247.8     397 1     420 8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                20.4     22.6      23.1      23.4                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             6.6      5.5      10 S      10T5
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                     21.1     20.1      19.6      19.8
Gross national savings/GDP                            2025      21.8      21.7
Currentaccountbalance/GDP                     1,6     -2.4      -1.3      -14   iD
Interest payments/GDP                         0.3      0.7       1.0       09`    DmStic                        Investment
Total debtVGDP                               14.1     19.4      23.5      22.4   1Sn
Total debt servicelexports                   15.3     32.0      23.1      194 
Present value of debVGDOP                       .        ..     17.8
Present value of debVexports                    .              135.4
Indebtedness
1977-87 i1988-98     1997      1998   1999-03
(average annual growth) 
GDP                                  4.4      5.7      7.3       5.0       5.5             India      Low-income group
GNP per capita                      2.1       3.8      5.8       3.3       4.0       -
Exports of goods and services        3.4     12.0      8.4      11 4       72    a                           _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        !30
Agriculture                                  38.2     31.4      29.3      27.5    30
Industry                                     23.0     26.2      26.1      26.1
Manufacturng                               15.5     16.1       16.8      16.8
Services                                     38.9     42.3      44.7      46.4 9
Private consumption                          69.3     68.2      70.1      69.1    -201
General govemment consumption                 9.6     11.7      10.2      11.1               -     GDI    - 6GDP
Imports of goods and services                 5.9      8.1      14.0      14.1
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%I
(average annual growth)l
Agriculture                                   2.6      3.7        9.4     -1.0    40I
Industry                                      5.2      6.6       6.0       5.9    30
Manufacturing                               5.5      7.1        7.7       6.8    20
Services                                      5.5      7.2       8.0       8.2    10i
Private consumption                           4.8      5.0      10.2      -0.1 -
General government consumption                6.9      6.6      11.3      19.4  _|         9
Gross domestic investment                     4.2      6.4      -1.3       7.7   I -20 .1
Imports of goods and services                 8.7      8.5       9.7       3.5               -Exports    -          Imports
Gross national product                        4.3      5.7       7.5       5.0   L
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 65
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998
Domestic prices                                                           1         I i
(% change)                                                                        '  I
Consumer prices                                 ..      6.4      10.0       6.9    15
Implicit GDP deflator                          5.9      6.5       7.9       5.6    io
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        -,      -_ _      _         _
Current revenue                                 ..    23.3       21.8      22.0            93   94    95   9e   97   98
Current budget balance                          ..      1.5      -0.6       0.0                   GDP deflator  ' v  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -12.3       -9.9      -8.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977     1987       1997     1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                  10,420    34,133    34,849     50000
Tea                                           ..    451         292       410     s0000
Iron                                          ..      428       481       475I
Manufactures                                        6,458    25,490    26,022     40 00 
Total imports (cit                               .   17,740    48,948    51,126     30,000
Food                                           ..   1,068      1,536    1,687     20,000!              i     i i      i
Fuel and energy                                     2,187      9,826    7,624     10,000
Capital goods                                 ..    5,074      8,413    7,140 
2 93  94  99  96  97  99
Export price index (1995=100)                   .       89         90       86
Import price index (1995=100)                   .       77        101      104                M Exports     olmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..    115          89        82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   ..  13,837    41,732   44,102   I 0 ...-. -                 -_
Imports of goods and services                        19,962    55,696    59,236         Pf              -
Resource balance                  ..  ~~~~~~~~~~~-6,325    -13,964   -15,134    I    . .
Net income                                             ' -2,045  -3,568    -2,507            ,
Netcurrenttransfers                             ..   2,327    12,367    11,830      -       ,
Current account balance                         .. -6,043       -5,165    -5,811
Financing items (net)                           ..   6,114     10,392     9,407
Changes in net reserves                         ..    -72    -5,227    -3,596    -2 i
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..   7,200    26,718   29,651
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)                 .     12.8      35.5      37.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998   i
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        14,471   48,124    93,435   94,404
IBRD                                        456    3,475      8,768     8,138                   G: 5,046 A- 8,138
IDA                                       3,333   10,529    17,616    17,912
Total debt service                           1,178    5,273    12,058    10,586 
IBRD                                         88      469      1,514     1,482                                     :17,912
IDA                                          30      152        365      381
Composition of net resource flows                                                    F: 36,574
Official grants                             377      403        410      351                                       C 664
Official creditors                        1,058    1,404        184      -65                                     D 3,341
Private creditors                           -14    2,793       -147     2,520
Foreign direct investment                     0      208      2,696     3,197
Portfolio equity                              0        0      3,142     1,796                              E. 22,729
World Bank program
Commitments                                 315    1,790      1,532     1,755     A-IBRD                       E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               610    1,297      1,592     1,373     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         66      235      1,074     1,144   IC - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                   544    1,062        518      229   1_1
Interest payments                            52      386        804      719
Net transfers                               492      676       -287     -490
Development Economics                                                                                                 4/30/99



IBRD 30091
78-                              79'                              8
I N  D I A                                                                                       To Nellore
SECOND TAMIL NADU URBAN ;
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                       ANDHRA PRADESH
URBAN AGGLOMERATIONS
ToChuoort
URBAN AGGLOMERATIONS UNDER THE  Kurn'i,,                                                             r
1. PROJECT AND THEIR POPULATIONS      (o AMBEDKA                                          A  ;jj
*   SELECTED TOWNS                 , Sag -r                            i    -VeIre9'                               '4K'
   STATE CAPITAL                                               I      J   __{3         \           K- ;<           o
=,.ROADS                                                  *         ~         ,7        -"--'        '\~'>~
RAILROADS
RIVERS
STATE BOUNDARIES        t          jirin \                                T H I R UVA N A M A L A I
,-DHARMAPURI\                           {Thiruvona
CIRCLE SIZES APPROXIMATE THE RELATIVE                                                                                  *      .
POPULATIONS OP THE PROJECT TOWNS                                              I- /ir i
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ompr .-        
12'
KARNATAKA                                                                          kkyilu 
I            -'        11~~SOUTH   ARCOT
''~'SALEM~                                 CuddIa         ~"
NILGIRIS                                                                                       Vi ''  d"'j  Vjjd4j 'cl  m
_    Udagamandalam  T             000/                              5/  29         - '             /              ,2,
"ITIRUCHCHIR    ALi
~AQE                                           zo~e~,/~
To Tr         "'h  "        Ama va, "                ",                                                                         ;7Tiruchchirap.
ANN A  -               C     -                                                         .udukkotfoi
Dindgul xiPUDUK ~OTAI            /
,5,jji ~~~~~~~~%/ SriviilipuIEur                  V4U2a  r <    eimBdriiiii,,i-, jjj jjjjjj  
%, .s, . o. o...< ... > '' 'i Zi:  : Zi  i  '  .    ': .     ,
Kat~raikku   9
ttt~~~~~~~~~~,  >-; RAMANAsiiTHAPURAM    jiii iit g.
ADUR ~ ~ ~  ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ K
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.7UR 1 99
KERALA                    i  ,        '~CIDM
/KATTABO       "-2~                                                     .--~Tir  ~V~1/\7o KKrmtd6rai
%.CIIIIIII~~~~/                                                                                                  SRI
K   g  ~~~M    TrIvandrum~~~SriilLANKAu
p~~~~~~h
~~~flH H'  ,e ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     Rm
AMA                         0 KL
''PP   '-''i  RI   ______________________              ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     9
CHID                 ____________
BEd   E tOi,NLAI
KATTABO-0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~FBURY19



