Report No. PID6850
Project Name                      India-Tamil Nadu Urban Development...
Project II
Region                            South Asia
Sector                            Urban
Project ID                        INPE50637
Borrower                          Government of India (GOI)
Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN)
Contact: Ms. S Malathi, Secretary,
Department of Municipal Administration &
Water Supply (MAWS)
Telephone:   (91 44) 561-567
Fax:   (91 44) 561-461
Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF)
Contact: Mr. K. Rajivan, CEO,
Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure
Financial Services, Ltd. (TNUIFS)
Telephone:   (91 44) 823-6578
Fax: (91 44) 823-6581
Date Initial PCD Prepared         February 25, 1998
Date This PID Prepared            February  25, 1998
Appraisal Date                    October 5, 1998
Projected Board Date              January 20 , 1998
1.      BACKGROUND. The major challenges facing the urban sector in Tamil Nadu,
are reducing the huge backlog of infrastructure investment and improving basic
urban service delivery, both in terms of quality and quantity. This situation
of considerable under-investment is due to regulatory constraints which
impinge upon the effective mobilization of resources for urban infrastructure
financing. Some examples of which are an unpredictable and discretionary
intra-government transfer system with a weak financial accountability
framework, inappropriate property tax assessments, and an inadequate mechanism
for the collection and determination of user charges. Additionally, the weak
managerial and administrative capacity of municipalities, as well as the lack
of a long-term financing facility and an intermediary for municipal financing,
further constrain resource mobilization. In recognition of these
shortcomings, the Government of India (GOI) and Government of Tamil Nadu
(GOTN) have requested the Bank's financial assistance in order to support on-
going urban sector reforms in Tamil Nadu through the institutional development
of municipalities and the financing of basic urban investments through the use
of financial intermediary.
2.      PROJECT OBJECTIVES. The project development objectives are:      (i) to
support the urban sector reforms which GOTN is implementing to improve urban
finance, management and service delivery in line with the 74th Constitutional
Amendment; (ii) to improve living standards in urban areas, by financing basic
urban infrastructure investments; and (iii) to secure sustainable funding
sources for the urban infrastructure investment beyond the Bank's line of
credit operations.



3.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION. The project would be comprised of the Institutional
Development Component (TA and Training) and the Urban Investment Component
(Line of Credit).
Institutional Development Component:
This component would finance TA and Training in the following areas: (i)
capacity building of the municipalities to be implemented by a Project
Management Unit (PMU); (ii) strengthening and building the capacity of the
Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply (MAWS) and the
restructuring of the Tamil Nadu Institute of Urban Studies (TNIUS); (iii)
technical assistance to the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF)/selected
municipalities in issuing bonds; and (iv) technical assistance to
municipalities for project identification and preparation.
Urban Investment Component:
This component would finance about US$270 million of basic urban
infrastructure investments to be sponsored by eligible ULBs, statutory boards
and private investors. The basic infrastructure investments include mainly
water supply, sewerage and sanitation, solid waste management, roads, storm
water drains, and street lighting. The Bank would propose to finance about 37%
of the investment cost (US$100 million) through the TNUDF in a form of the
line of credit. The participating finical institutions (FIs) would be
requested to match US$100 million. The possible arrangements would include:
(i) The FIs will increase unit share (equity equivalent) in the TNUDF by
ploughing back their profit as unit shares; (ii) The FIs will purchase the
debentures or bonds to be issued by the TNUDF; (iii) The FIs will guarantee
the repayment of the debentures or bonds to be issued by the TNUDF; and (iv)
The FIs will co-finance the TNUDF-financed sub-projects. This matching
financing scheme (Bank US$100 million and FIs US$100 million) is to promote
the private capital inflow in the urban financing and to leverage the Bank's
limited resources at maximum. However, the FIs' willingness and capacity to
match this amount is not certain as the municipal financing is quite new
market for them. Actual finance sharing ratio between the Bank and FIs will be
decided in consultation with the FIs and TNUDF. In case, FIs have difficulty
in raising long-term resources required for basic urban infrastructure
investment, the Bank could consider to extend the Bank loan to the FIs for
this purpose.
4.      COST AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT (Estimate in US$
Million)
-IBRD:                                   100*
-IDA:                                    10
-Co-financiers                           2
Government                               4
Urban Local Bodies                       70
FIs                                      100*
Total                                    286
* IBRD loan amount and FIs' contribution will be determined, taking account
the FIs' capacity to fill the financial gap.
5.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.
Institutional Development Component
-2-



Department of Municipal Administration & Warter Supply (MAWS) will assume
oversight responsibility for the urban sector reforms. The conceptualization
and design of the Institutional Development component will be carried out by a
project team consisting of representatives from MAWS, Tamil Nadu Institute of
Urban Studies (TNIUS) and the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial
Service , Ltd (TNUIFS). The TA and training programs for the municipalities
will be implemented by the Project Management Unit (PMU) with the assistance
of TNUIFS, and will be supervised by MAWS. The TA grant facility for sub-
project preparation will be provided through the Grant Fund, which is managed
by TNUIFS, in accordance with the Grant Fund management contract with GOTN.
Urban Investment Component
Project sponsors, (municipalities. statutory boards and private investors)
will identify and develop sub-projects with assistance of TNUIFS. They are
also responsible for the implementation of the sub-project (procurement,
construction and operation & maintenance). TNUIFS will carry out project
appraisal, loan processing, negotiations, and project monitoring and
supervision.
6.      PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY. Urban sector reforms currently underway have
created or will reinforce the enabling environment to improve the financial,
administrative and managerial performance of municipalities, and would make
them eventually creditworthy and well functioning entities. The project would
support these policy-based reforms, the capacity building of ULBs, and
strengthen the financial performance and institutional capacity of TNUDF by
helping TNUDF become a sustainable financial intermediary which could then
raise resources from the capital market. The project would also assist TNUDF
and the selected municipalities in mobilizing resources from the capital
market for the purpose of securing sustainable funding for urban
infrastructure investment.
7.      LESSONS LEARNED FROM PREVIOUS BANK OPERATIONS.
Several lessons can be drawn from previous Bank urban sector operations
and would be included in the design of the proposed project:
Major urban policy reforms are essential for the improvement of financial
performance and the administrative/managerial capacity of the municipalities.
The State Government is primarily responsible for the formulation and
implementation of urban policy, as well as regulatory and institutional
reforms. The comparative advantage of financial institutions and private
investors lies in project identification, development and appraisal. Thus,
Government and financial institutions/investors play complementary roles and
the Government's sound urban policy and regulation would promote private entry
into the urban sector in terms of both urban infrastructure investment and
service delivery.
Successful financial intermediation requires a pool of credit worthy borrowers
and strong intermediaries. Improving urban management and in particular
strengthening financial management standards, are important steps in enabling
municipalities to access funds either indirectly through a financial
intermediary or directly through municipal bonds. Fundamentally what is
required are effective institutions at the city level with credible and
- 3 -



intelligible account and management systems, independent auditing procedures,
multi-year capital and operating budgets, transparent procurement systems,
adequate financial reporting mechanisms, appropriate administrative systems to
control personnel expenditures, and accountable local officials backed by
reasonably satisfied tax and rate payers.
The Bank's new approach of channeling its urban lending through financial
intermediaries would generate positive results quickly and efficiently if new
projects are able to address the institutional development and capacity
building of municipalities, building on the extensive experience of the urban
sector from past operations .
8.      POVERTY CATEGORY. The project is not a poverty targeted operation,
although most of the urban poor would benefit from the provision of basic
urban infrastructure services such as water, storm drainage, street
improvement and sanitation.
9.      ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ASPECTS. In general, the project will directly
contribute to the improvement of the environmental situation in the urban
areas by providing basic infrastructure including solid waste and sanitation
facilities, storm drainage and water supply facilities. However, some of sub-
projects, particularly those involving solid waste management, could entail
major environmental risks when it comes to site selection for landfills.
Landfills should be designed with the appropriate environmental safeguards.
The operation and maintenance of landfills should be guided by an
environmental management plan. Other sub-projects that could involve major
environmental risks are those dealing with underground sewerage. Some of sub-
projects would include involuntary resettlement. Under TNUDP-I, an
Environmental and Social Report (ESR) was prepared by TNUDF/TNUIFS in January
1997. ESR sets out the environmental and social policies and operating
procedure to be followed by TNUDF/TNUIFS in appraising, financing and
implementing sub-projects. ESR also defines the entitlement framework for
project affected persons in case of the involuntary resettlement.
10.     PROJECT OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES.   The project objective categories are:
sector reforms (50%) and infrastructure (50%).
11.     PROJECT BENEFITS. The project would provide the following benefits
through the provision of basic urban infrastructure: (i) sustainable economic
development; (ii) promotion of industrial and commercial investment in the
urban areas; and (iii) improvement of environmental and health conditions.
12.     PROJECT RISKS.   The proposed project would face the following major
risks: (i) the urban sector reforms could be hampered by the resistance of
various stakeholders, particularly in relation to the increase in property
taxes and user fees; (ii) the institutional development component and the
urban investment component could not be implemented smoothly unless qualified
municipal staff are assigned to these tasks. These risks could be mitigated
by: (i) conducting intensive public consultation: (ii)
disclosing information on the municipalities' financial position, investment
needs and their performance; (iii) providing better municipal services; (iv)
conducting adequate consultation with municipalities and involving them in the
project design and development; and (v) providing adequate technical
assistance to the municipalities..
- 4-



Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 18, 1998.
- 5 -



