Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4478 IN
Loan Agreement
(Second Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 14, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4478 IN 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1999, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
(A)
The Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Tamil Nadu (Tamil Nadu) 
and the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund (TNUDF) with the Borrower’s and Tamil Nadu’s 
assistance; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and Tamil Nadu, and the TNUDF Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and TNUDF. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Activities” means technical assistance activities to be financed by a 
Grant for the preparation and implementation of Sub-projects;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means ULBs meeting the eligibility criteria set forth in 
paragraph (1) of Schedule 2 to the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement and to which Tamil 
Nadu has made or proposes to make a Capital Grant;
(c)
“Capital Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by Tamil Nadu 
out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for financing a Scheme under Part B.1 
of the Project;
(d)
“Capital Grant Government Order” means the Government Order to be issued 
by Tamil Nadu for purposes of setting out the arrangements for the provision of 
Capital Grants;
(e)
“Contribution” means the Contribution by each Participating Financial 
Institution and Tamil Nadu to the TNUDF to be utilized, inter alia, for making 
Sub-loans and “Contributions” means all such Contributions collectively;
(f)
“Contribution Agreement” means the agreement dated\0bNovember 18, 1996, 
between each Participating Financial Institution and Tamil Nadu on the one hand and 
TNUDF on the other, providing for Contributions and containing terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(g)
“DMAWS” means the Department of Municipal Administration and Water Supply 
of Tamil Nadu;
(h)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(i)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
“Environmental and Social Report” means the Report prepared by TNUDF for 
purposes of mitigating the adverse environmental and social impacts resulting from the 
implementation of the Project;
(k)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Fiscal Year of the Borrower, Tamil Nadu 
and TNUDF beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the 
following calendar year;
(l)
“Grant” means a Grant made or proposed to be made by Tamil Nadu to a 
Recipient for carrying out an Activity in accordance with the Grant Fund Management 
Contract and the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the Grant Fund 
Guidelines;
(m)
“Grant Fund” means the Fund established by the Grant Fund Government 
Order for purposes of providing Grants to Recipients under Part C.1 of the Project in 
accordance with the eligibility criteria and procedures set forth in the Grant Fund 
Guidelines;
(n)
“Grant Fund Government Order” means the Government Order No. Ms. 82 dated 
March 23, 1999, issued by Tamil Nadu for purposes of establishing the Grant Fund;
(o)
“Grant Fund Guidelines” means the Guidelines dated March 23, 1999 by 
Page  3
Tamil Nadu for purposes of operating the Grant Fund ;
(p)
“Grant Fund Management Contract” means the Contract dated\0bApril 24, 1999, 
entered into between Tamil Nadu and the TNUIFS for purposes of enabling the TNUIFS to 
manage the Grant Fund and make Grants on behalf of Tamil Nadu;
(q)
“HDFC” means the Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited, or any 
successor thereto;
(r)
“ICICI” means ICICI Limited, or any successor thereto;
(s)
“IL&FS” means the Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited, 
or any successor thereto;
(t)
“Indian Rupee” and “Rs” mean the currency of the Borrower;
(u)
“Lending Policies and Procedures” means the Lending Policies and 
Procedures of TNUDF as approved by the Trustee and attached as an Annex of the Trust 
Fund Management Contract for purposes of making Sub-loans and as amended to the date 
of this agreement;
(v) 
“Memorandum and Articles” means each of the Memorandum and Articles of 
the Trust Company and the TNUIFS as amended to the date of this  Agreement;
(w)
“Participating Financial Institutions” means ICICI, HDFC, IL&FS and other 
Financial Institutions acceptable to the Bank, collectively and “Participating 
Financial Institution” means any of such Institutions individually;
(x)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established by Tamil Nadu for 
purposes of assisting in the implementation of  Parts B and C of the Project;
(y)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement and Section 4.04 of the TNUDF Project 
Agreement;
(z)
“Recipient” means ULBs and Statutory Bodies established under the 
relevant laws of Tamil Nadu to which Tamil Nadu has made or proposes to make a Grant;
(aa)
“Scheme” means a sanitation scheme meeting the eligibility criteria set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement and to be 
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Capital Grant;
(bb)
“Shareholders’ Agreement” means each of the following: (i) the agreement 
among the Participating Financial Institutions and Tamil Nadu for purposes of 
administering the TNUIFS; and (ii) the agreement among the Participating Financial 
Institutions and Tamil Nadu for purposes of administering the Trust Company;
(cc)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(dd)
“Sub-borrower” means urban local body, statutory board or authority, 
public undertaking or private investor meeting the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Lending Policies and Procedures and in paragraph 2 of the Schedule to the TNUDF 
Project Agreement and to which TNUDF has made or proposes to make a Sub-loan;
(ee)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by TNUDF out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to a Sub-borrower for a Sub-project;
(ff)
“Sub-project” means a Sub-project meeting the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Lending Policies and Procedures and in paragraph 2 of the Schedule to the 
TNUDF Project Agreement and to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing , inter 
alia, the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(gg)
“Subsidiary Loan” means the Subsidiary Loan made by Tamil Nadu to the 
TNUDF out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to Tamil Nadu by the Borrower for 
financing Sub-loans;
Page  4
(hh)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between Tamil Nadu and TNUDF providing for the Subsidiary Loan and containing terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)
“Tamil Nadu” means the State of Tamil Nadu, a State of India, and 
includes any successor thereto;
(jj)
“Tamil Nadu Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
Tamil Nadu of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Tamil Nadu Project 
Agreement;
(kk)
“TNUDF” means the Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund created by the Trust 
Deed for purposes, inter alia, of receiving loans, Contributions and other assets and 
utilizing the proceeds thereof to provide Sub-loans; and unless the context otherwise 
requires whenever the term “TNUDF” is used, it shall be deemed to be a reference to 
TNUDF acting through the Trustee and, where appropriate, TNUIFS in accordance with the 
Trust Fund Management Contract;
(ll)
“TNUDF Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and TNUDF 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the TNUDF Project Agreement;
(mm)
“TNUIFS” means the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services 
Ltd., a company incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies Act, 1956, as amended;
(nn)
“Trust Act” means the Indian Trust Act, 1882, as amended;
(oo)
“Trust Company” or “TNUITC” means the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure 
Trustee Company Limited incorporated under the Borrower’s Companies Act, 1956, as 
amended, for the purpose of acting as Trustee of TNUDF;
(pp)
“Trust Deed” means the Trust Deed dated November 29, 1996, executed by 
Tamil Nadu and accepted by the Trustee (as hereinafter defined) for purposes, inter 
alia, of creating the TNUDF;
(qq)
“Trustee” means the Trust Company accepting the Trust Deed with powers, 
inter alia, of receiving contributions, loans and other assets on behalf of the TNUDF 
in order to provide subloans through the TNUIFS as the office of any of such Trustee 
may be vacated and filled in accordance with the Trust Act and the Trust Deed;
(rr)
“Trust Fund Management Contract” means the Trust Fund Management Contract 
dated January 9, 1997 between the Trustee and TNUIFS for purposes of enabling TNUIFS 
to develop, manage and operate the portfolio of TNUDF; and
(ss)
“ULB” means Urban Local Body constituted under the relevant laws of Tamil 
Nadu.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred five million dollars ($105,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid 
(or if the Bank shall so agree to be paid) by TNUDF on account of withdrawals made by 
a Subborrower under a Sub-loan under Part A of the Project to meet the reasonable cost 
of goods and services required for a Sub-project in respect of which withdrawal from 
the Loan Account is requested; (ii) amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
paid) by Tamil Nadu on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Capital 
Grant under Part B.1 of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for a Scheme in respect of which withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
requested; and (iii) amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree to be paid) by Tamil 
Nadu on account of withdrawals made by a Recipient under a Grant under Part C.1 of the 
Page  5
Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for an activity in 
respect of which withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (iv) expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for Parts B.2, C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value on the first day of 
such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%);  (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for 
such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
 (c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Page  6
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause Tamil Nadu to carry out Parts B and C of the Project and TNUDF to carry 
out Part A of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, sanitation and technical 
practices, and shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
Tamil Nadu and TNUDF to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Tamil Nadu 
in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance 
to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Tamil 
Nadu in respect of Parts B and C of the Project pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Tamil 
Nadu Project Agreement, and by TNUDF in respect of Part A of the Project pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of the TNUDF Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
Page  7
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports 
or the statement of expenditures submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Tamil Nadu Project Agreement.
(b)
TNUDF shall have failed to perform any its obligations under the TNUDF 
Project Agreement.
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Tamil Nadu or TNUDF will be able to perform their respective obligations under 
the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement or the TNUDF Project Agreement.
(d)
Any provision of the Trust Deed, the Contribution Agreement, the Trust 
Fund Management Contract, the Grant Fund Management Contract, the Lending Policies and 
Procedures, the Grant Fund Guidelines, the Memorandum and Articles of Association, the 
Government Order or the Grant Fund Government Order shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
operation or financial condition of TNUDF or the Grant Fund, as the case may be, or 
the ability of Tamil Nadu or TNUDF to carry out the Project or to perform their 
respective obligations under the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement or the TNUDF Project 
Agreement.
(e)
Tamil Nadu or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of TNUDF or the Grant Fund or for 
the suspension of operations of any of them.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (a) the events specified in paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period 
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; 
and (b) the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of Tamil Nadu 
and TNUDF;
(b)
Tamil Nadu has developed a financial management system and a financial 
management manual, satisfactory to the Bank, for the PMU; and
(c)
TNUDF has introduced and implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank 
a new Oracle-based financial information system.
Page  8
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that Tamil Nadu Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Tamil Nadu and is legally binding upon Tamil Nadu in accordance with its terms;
(b)
the TNUDF Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by TNUDF 
and is legally binding upon TNUDF in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Tamil Nadu and TNUDF and is legally binding upon Tamil Nadu and TNUDF in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purpose of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance, North Block
New Delhi 110001, India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-31-66175 FINE IN
New Delhi
953-31-61430 FINE IN
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ V. Govindarajan
Authorized Representative
Page  9
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
Part A:
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans under
   80,000,000
100% 
Part A of the Project
(2)
Capital Grants under
    4,500,000
100% 
Part B.1 of the Project
(3)
Grants under
    5,000,000
100% 
Part C.1 of the Project
(4)
Consultants’ services and
    8,250,000
100% 
training under Parts B.2, C.2,
C.3 and C.4 of the Project
(5)
Goods under
    3,000,000
100% of foreign 
expen-
Parts C.2, C.3, 
ditures; 100% of 
local
and C.4 of the Project 
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 
80%
of local 
expenditures
for other items 
procured
locally
(6)
Incremental operating
    1,000,000
80% through March 
31,
cost
2001; 60% from
April 1, 2001 
through
March 31, 2003 and
50% thereafter
(7)
Fee
    1,050,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
    2,200,000
   __________
Page  10
TOTAL
  105,000,000
  ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “incremental operating cost” means:
(i) 
salaries of additional staff employed in PMU for the purposes of 
Parts B and C 
of the Project; 
(ii) 
costs of operation and maintenance of vehicles, equipment, office 
supplies and 
offices incurred by PMU for the Project; and
(iii)  field supervision costs of the PMU staff incurred for the Project. 
.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $10,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after June 1, 1998;
(b)
in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Schedule to the TNUDF Project Agreement;
(c)
in respect of a Capital Grant unless the Capital Grant has been made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in Schedule 2 to the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement; and
(d)
in respect of a Grant unless the Grant has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Fund Guidelines 
and in Schedule 2 to the Tamil Nadu Project Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures for:
(a) 
goods (other than vehicles) and works under contracts below $500,000 
equivalent and vehicles under contract below $100,000 equivalent respectively, under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower; and 
(b) 
services under contract not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment 
of consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the end of the fourth calendar quarter following the quarter in 
which the Effectiveness Date falls or such earlier date as may be agreed between the 
Bank and the Borrower, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  11
Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
after the date determined pursuant to Part B.2 (a) of this Schedule, all 
further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1. \0c3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.02 of the 
Tamil Nadu Project Agreement or Section 4.04 of the TNUDF Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
of $10,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of 
Page  12
$7,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed $15,600,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each applications for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each applications for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: 
(a)
the amount so requested; and 
(b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management 
Report accompanying said applications, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $15,600,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  13
The objective of the Project is to improve urban infrastructure services in 
Tamil Nadu in a sustainable manner through: (a) strengthening the managerial, 
financial and technical capabilities of urban local bodies; and (b) mobilizing 
resources and securing sustainable funding sources for urban infrastructure 
investment.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Sub-loans
The financing of Sub-projects through provisions of Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers.
Part B:
Integrated Sanitation Program
1.
The financing of Schemes through provision of Capital Grants to Beneficiaries.
2.
Assisting PMU and ULBs in the preparation and implementation of Schemes through 
the provision of consultants’ services.
Part C:
Institutional Development
1.
The financing of Activities through the provision of Grants to Recipients.
2.
Strengthening the managerial, financial, technical and procurement capacity of 
ULBs, including the preparation and implementation of their City Corporate Plan, 
carrying out studies to promote the sustainability of institutional reforms, 
preparation of operational manuals, through the provision of equipment, materials, 
training and technical assistance.
3.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of DMAWS and PMU through the provision 
of staff training, equipment and materials.
4.
Strengthening the capacity of TNUDF and selected ULBs to raise funds from the 
domestic capital market through, inter alia, provision of financial advisory services.
5.
Establishment and operation of the Project Management Unit.
*            *            *            *
 *
 *
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
February 15, 2005
2,290,000 
August 15, 2005
2,355,000 
February 15, 2006
2,420,000 
August 15, 2006
2,490,000 
February 15, 2007
2,555,000 
August 15, 2007
2,625,000 
February 15, 2008
2,700,000 
August 15, 2008
2,775,000 
February 15, 2009
2,850,000 
August 15, 2009
2,930,000 
February 15, 2010
3,010,000 
August 15, 2010
3,095,000 
February 15, 2011
3,180,000 
August 15, 2011
3,270,000 
February 15, 2012
3,360,000 
August 15, 2012
3,450,000 
Page  14
February 15, 2013
3,545,000 
August 15, 2013
3,645,000 
February 15, 2014
3,745,000 
August 15, 2014
3,850,000 
February 15, 2015
3,955,000 
August 15, 2015
4,065,000 
February 15, 2016
4,175,000 
August 15, 2016
4,295,000 
February 15, 2017
4,410,000 
August 15, 2017
4,535,000 
February 15, 2018
4,660,000 
August 15, 2018
4,785,000 
February 15, 2019
4,920,000 
August 15, 2019
5,060,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(b)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Civil works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $99,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
Page  15
contracts awarded in accordance with National Competitive Bidding procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Computer software, satellite imagery, video-cassettes, books, periodicals, etc., 
which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing 
equipment or are of a proprietary nature and costing $3,000,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the Bank’s 
prior agreement shall not be required for contracts costing less than the equivalent 
of $100,000.
4.
BOO/BOT/BOOT Procurement 
Sub-projects to be implemented under BOO/BOT/BOOT arrangement may be constructed 
and operated under a contract awarded to an entrepreneur on the basis of international 
competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines, subject to the provisions of paragraph 3.13 (a) thereof.  The 
goods/works/services required for the construction of said Sub-projects shall then be 
procured in accordance with the applicable procedures of said entrepreneur.
5.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part B of the Project may be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all ICB contracts and contracts for vehicles estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more and other contracts for goods and works estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  16
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance under Parts C.1, 
C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits, engineering design, procurement and inspection inquiry 
under Parts C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4, and C.5 of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for training under Parts C.2 and C.3 of the Project which are estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services to be provided by consultants for design/estimate preparation under 
Parts C.1, C.2 C.3 and C.4 of the Project individually estimated to cost less than 
$10,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent may be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance under Parts C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 of the 
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  17
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance under Parts C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance under Parts C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4 and C.5 estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
