Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4478 IN
Tamil Nadu Project Agreement
(Second Tamil Nadu Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
Dated July 14, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4478 IN
TAMIL NADU PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF TAMIL NADU, acting by its Governor (TAMIL 
NADU).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India, acting by 
its President (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower 
an amount of one hundred five million dollars ($105,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Tamil Nadu 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available by the Borrower to Tamil Nadu as provided for in the Loan Agreement and 
a portion thereof will be onlent by Tamil Nadu to Tamil Nadu Urban Development Fund 
(TNUDF) as provided for in this Agreement;
(C)
by the TNUDF Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
TNUDF, TNUDF has undertaken certain obligations towards the Bank as set forth in the 
TNUDF Project Agreement.
WHEREAS Tamil Nadu, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Tamil Nadu declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Parts B and C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, Tamil Nadu shall cause TNUDF to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the TNUDF Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TNUDF to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Tamil Nadu shall otherwise agree, Tamil Nadu shall carry 
out Parts B and C of the Project, or cause such Parts to be carried out, in accordance 
with the implementation program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Tamil Nadu shall, out of the proceeds of the Loan made 
available to it by the Borrower, relend a portion thereof to TNUDF under a Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement to be entered into between Tamil Nadu and TNUDF under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, that the Subsidiary Loan 
shall be denominated in Rupees,  and that TNUDF shall pay interest on the principal 
amount so relent and withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate of not less 
than the weighted average yield on the Borrower’s 10-year bond of previous year plus 
100 basis points, to be determined at the beginning of each Fiscal Year, and repay the 
principal amount so re-lent over a period of 20 years including therein a period of 
grace of 5 years and, that the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.
(b)
Tamil Nadu shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Tamil Nadu shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. \0c
Section 2.03. Except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Tamil Nadu shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Parts B and C of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Tamil Nadu shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Bank and Tamil Nadu, a plan for 
the future operation of Parts B and C of 
the Project; and
Page  3
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Tamil Nadu on 
the said plan. 
Section 2.05. (a) Tamil Nadu undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Capital Grants and Grants shall be made in accordance with procedures and on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)
Tamil Nadu shall exercise its rights in relation to each Scheme or 
Activity in such manner as to:
(i) 
protect the interests of the Bank and Tamil Nadu;
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and 
(iii)  achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.06. Tamil Nadu shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the  \0cprogress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.07. (a) Tamil Nadu shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Tamil Nadu shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Tamil Nadu of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Tamil Nadu shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B and C of the Project.
(b)
Tamil Nadu shall:
(i)
have the said records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this 
section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
Page  4
records, and 
accounts as well as the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Tamil Nadu shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period in respect of Parts B 
and C of the Project that:
(a)
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of 
funds for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
and 
(ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during 
the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month 
period following the period 
covered by said report;
(b)
(i)
describes progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the 
period covered by said report; and
(ii) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement and expenditures under contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Tamil Nadu 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Tamil Nadu thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  5
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Tamil Nadu:
Chief Secretary to the
Government of Tamil Nadu
Fort St. George 
Chennai 600009, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Tamil Nadu may 
be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or by such other person or persons as 
Tamil Nadu shall designate in writing, and Tamil Nadu shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
By /s/ S. Malathi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
Tamil Nadu shall no later than August 31, 1999 establish arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing Part B.1 of the Project and issue a 
relevant Government Order for such purpose covering, inter alia, the matters set out 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.
Tamil Nadu shall no later than August 31, 1999 recruit a suitable institution to 
work jointly as a Partner Organization (referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement) with PMU for the implementation of Part B.1 of the Project.
3.
Tamil Nadu shall no later than August 31, 1999 develop operating guidelines, 
procedures and relevant documentation satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation 
of Part B.1 of the Project.
4.
Tamil Nadu shall, not later than August 31, 1999, appoint a coordinator of 
Schemes to be located in the PMU.  Such coordinator shall be selected by Tamil Nadu in 
Page  6
consultation with the Partner Organization referred to in paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 
2 to this Agreement.
5.
Tamil Nadu shall maintain the PMU with functions, powers, staff, resources and 
facilities satisfactory to the Bank. \0cSCHEDULE 2
Capital Grants Under Part B.1 of the Project And Grants Under Part C.1 of the Project
Eligibility Criteria for Capital Grants
1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Tamil Nadu shall ensure that Schemes 
and Beneficiaries meet the following eligibility criteria for receiving Capital 
Grants:
(a)
The Beneficiaries shall agree to carry out Schemes for the benefit of 
communities below the poverty line, determined in accordance with methodology 
satisfactory to the Bank, living in corporations, municipalities and town panchayats.
(b)
The Scheme shall support one or more of the following activities:
(i) 
public sanitation facilities – inclusive of water supply, 
electricity, waste 
disposal and baths; 
(ii) 
sullage collection and disposal in either soakpits or sewers; 
(iii)  garbage collection and placement in communal bins; and
(iv) 
other sanitation facilities approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Schemes for the provision of public sanitation facilities shall be 
based on the following principles:
(i) 
the need for improved sanitation is demand-driven;
(ii) 
the community participates actively in the preparation, design, 
construction, 
and operation and maintenance of the Schemes;
(iii)  urban local bodies commit to provide downstream services; and
(iv) 
urban local bodies and communities form partnerships to design and 
implement 
schemes, with urban local bodies having institutional 
support from NGOs or 
other organization (Partner 
Organization). The Partner Organization will be 
selected by the PMU 
on the strength of the community organization, 
engineering, technical, project management and financing skills of such 
organization.
(d)
Beneficiaries shall contribute at least half of the cost of a Scheme.
Eligibility Criteria for Grants
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Tamil Nadu shall ensure that 
Activities and Recipients meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Grant Fund 
Guidelines and that Grants are made in accordance with the Provisions of the Grant 
Fund Guidelines and the Grant Fund Management Contract.
Procedures for Approving Capital Grants and Grants
3.
No expenditures or services required for a Scheme or an Activity to be supported 
by a Capital Grant or a Grant, respectively, shall be eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan unless the Capital Grant or Grant is made in accordance with 
procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
Capital Grants and Grants shall be made on terms whereby Tamil Nadu shall 
obtain, by Letter of Agreement with the Beneficiary or Recipient as the case may be, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and Tamil Nadu, including to the 
extent that it shall be appropriate the right to:
Page  7
(a)
withhold from Tamil Nadu’s scheduled subsidy transfer to a Beneficiary an 
amount equivalent to the amount of the Capital Grant provided to that Beneficiary for 
a Scheme where it fails to provide adequate downstream services to support communities 
in respect of that Scheme;
(b)
require the Beneficiary or Recipient to carry out the Scheme or Activity 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
managerial and environmental standards and to maintain adequate records;
(c)
require the Beneficiary or the Recipient to prepare and provide periodic 
reports setting forth the actual sources and application of funds, maintain adequate 
records and accounts, and provide periodic audit reports;
(d)
require that: (i) any goods or services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be obtained at a reasonable price, account being taken also 
of other relevant factors such as their quality and the competence of the parties 
rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services to be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the proposal or program;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or Tamil Nadu shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary or Recipient and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Scheme or Activity;
(f)
inspect by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank 
shall so request, the goods, works, plants and construction included in the Scheme or 
Activity, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary or Recipient to the use 
of the proceeds of the Capital Grant or Grant upon:
(i)
failure by the Beneficiary or Recipient to perform its obligations 
under its 
respective contract with Tamil Nadu, or upon notice by the 
Bank to the 
Borrower that it intends to exercise any of its 
remedies under Sections 6.02 
and 7.01 of the General Conditions and 
Article V of the Loan Agreement; or
(ii)
upon notice by the Beneficiary or Recipient that it intends to 
terminate its 
contract with Tamil Nadu, or upon the actual 
termination of any such contract, 
whichever occurs first.
