PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                     A World Fret: of PIFvrty
IinfoShop
Report No AB6
Updated Project Infrormation Document (PID)
Project Name                HONDURAS-Regional Development in the Copan Valley Project
Region                      Latii America and Caribbean Region
Sector                      Sub-national government administration (20%); Agricultural extension and
research (20%); Micro- and SME finance (20%), Vocational training (20%);
Other industry (20%)
Project ID                  P081172
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Implementing Agency         HONDURAS INSTITUTE OF TOURISM
Address                     Address Apartado Postal 3261, Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Contact Person Miriam Leiva, Coordinator, Project Coordination Unit
Tel 504 221 1909     Fax 504 221 1911      Email mleiva@iht hn
Environment Category        B
Date PID Prepared           April 21, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         March 25, 2003
Bank Approval Date          May 20, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
National Level: Issues and Government Strategv
Honduras possesses rich natural and cultural resources, yet ranks as the third poorest country in Latin
America and has a highi incidence of extreme poverty In rural areas. Its natural endowments have been
threatened by deforestation, inappropriate land use, degradation of water and coastal resources, and
poor managemiien1t According to the 2001 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) for Honduras,
although the country has substantially recovered from Hurricane Mitch, the Government of Honduras
(GoH) still faces many challenges to sustainable economliic growth. To increase economic growth,
Honduras is pursuing a robust tourism development strategy that capitalizes on its many exceptional
natural and cultural resources. Tourism is the world's fastest growing economic activity and it has the
potential to generate employmenit, foreign exchanige, and tax revenue and contribute to poverty
reductioll. In 2002, tourismll in Honduras grew by 20 percent with more thani 800,000 visitors The GoH
seeks to incr-ease this number to one million visitors by 2005 and be a regional leader in tourism by
2021.
The maini issues affecting growth In the tourism sector include. (a) lack of a strategic framework for
tourism developmenlt that makes the country competitive dtie to prevailing legal and institutionial
obstacles to private sector investmenit, (b) insufficienlt 1finastructur-e to support physical demands and
investmeint in tourism; (c) poor or nonexistent public services in priority areas (such as water,



2
PID
sanitation, solid waste managemenit); (d) difficult access to potential tourism clusters, (e) fragmelited
maniagement of sectors that impact tourism (such as transport and communllicationis); (f) limited
application of land use planniniig and mapping; (g) weak municipal capacity; and (h) low human
resource capacity.
The Secrelaria de Turisinc (ST - Ministry of TouLIsm) and the Instiituto Hondureino de Turismo (IHT -
Honduras Institute of Tourism) are pursuing a comprehenisive Plan of Action for 2002-2006 to increase
growth in the sector, in partnershiip with the private sector, donors, and civil society. The objective is to
provide incentives for tOur ism development based on a national strategy to support equitable,
sustainiable, and responsible growth to generate employment, capture foreign currency, and support
local/regional development. The Plan consists of. enhancing infrastructure, access portals, and
transportation; developing new destinations, building consensus at regional/local levels; creatiig
opportunities for private sector investment, developing marketing campaigns; and implementinig tourism
police unlitS In key areas. The World Bank is helping the GoH to address some of these Issues through
the Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project. Also, the Compeolliveness Program, currently ulider
preparation, will help Government address the main legal and institutionial challenges to promoting an
investmenit climate in tourism, sucih as private sector innovationi, labor force skills, local development,
and communicationis. In additioni, the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC), which will finance
priorities identified in the PRSP, will contribute to resolving many of these obstacles.
Copain Valley. Issues
(a) Persistent Poverty anmtLow Human Resource Capacity. Althougih an increase in tourism has
brought progress to the western region of Honduras,'the Departimenlt of Copan continues to rank among
the poorest of the country The municipality of Copan Ruinas has benefited from the increase In
tourism, but poverty remains: the illiteracy rate is 49 percent, malnutrition rate is 55 percent and 75
percent of the households have Unmet Basic Needs. Vertical linkages between totir operators, hotels,
and airlines have limited opportuniities for new, small enterprises to enter the sector and these
operations often produce employment that is Iimited to unskilled and poorly paid jobs. However, due to
labor laws, even wihen loMw paid, the cost of formal labor that is generated is high, particular-ly for the
small employer, leading to significant turinover. The other five municipalities withi archeological sites
included in the project also show very low human development indicators and a high number of
households with Unmet Basic Needs. In Guanaja (Plan Grande), the illiteracy rate is 92 percent and 30
percent of the housellolds have Unmet Basic Needs; in La Jigua (El Puenite), the illiteracy rate is 80
percent and 67 perccnt of households have Unmet Basic Needs; in Yojoa (Los Naranjos), the illiteracy
rate is 62 percent, the malLutritionl rate is 40 percent and half of the households have Unmet Basic
Needs; and In both Pimienta and Porterillos (Cerro Palenque), the illiteracy rate is 70 percent, the
malnutrition rate is about 28 percent, and the percentage of houselholds withi Unimlet Basic Needs is 54
and 73 percent respectively The main challenge for the GoH in a pro-poor tourism approach is to
ensure that the poor have Ihe capacity to benefit from the potential of tourism development (see Social
Analysis In Aninex 12)
(b) Pressurefront Increasing Numnber of Tourists. The Copan Archeological Park, located near the
westerin border with Guatemnala, contains some of the most impressive Maya ruilns in Central America
and it is the most popular Lourist attraction in Honduras. Copan has experienced substanitial growth in
the number of tourists (from 12,500 in 1975 to 135,000 in 2002) and In the I 990s, this increase resulted
in a boom in tourism-related hotels and restaurants in the nearby town of Copan Ruinas. The
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), through the Mundo Maya initiative, wvill be supporting a
regional aerodrome for larger planes in the nearby Rio Amarillo Valley. Although this airport will



3
PID
respond to one of the maw- needs for regional development, by facilitating the arrival of an increasinig
number of tourists, it wvill place additional pressure on the existing infrastructure and requlle more
diversified attractions. The Copan Park has nearly reached its maximum carrying capacity (in termis of
numbers of people visiting, the ruins without damaging themii), and although occupanicy rates for hotels
in the project areas are low (as shown in the Economic Analysis), the mullicipalities, specifically Copain
Rulinas, have limited capacity to absorb additional inflows of visitors given constraints in public
services such as sewage, vater, garbage collection, electricity, and police coverage (see Annexes 11 and
12).
(c) Lack of a Strategic Framework to Attract Investors Private sector investment has generally
followved the developmenit of the Copain archeological site with hotels and restaurants constructed in
CopAn Ruinas and neighborinig areas, in part stimulated by regressive tax incentives the Government
provided in the aftermath of Mitch. Ultimately, this development has benefited only a few investors
with very little trickle down effect. Governmenit is just beginning to recognize that private investors
should include local residents, whio if appropriately skilled and trained, can take advantage of market
niches created by the inflow of tourists seeking local attractions, products, and gifts. Finally,
institItional and legal obstacles to the creation of enterprises, even small businesses, continue to exist,
with substantial bureaucratic requirements often taking place in Tegucigalpa.
((/) Environmental Degradlation. The Environmental Assessmenit (EA) confirned the limitations of a
model that relies only on quantity of tourists without addressing the environmenital impacts that these
numbers provoke In terms of non-economic impacts, it is important to raise awareness about
environimlental degradation that may be caused by overuse of areas. Increasinigly, the GoH is aware that
the environmenit is the capital of the poor and any poverty reductioll strategy must be environmenitally
sustainable. This is particularly true in areas where natural and cultural resource attractions are the main
sources of income
(e) Weak Municipal Capacity. Tourisimi growth can strain local public services delivery and hence,
municipalities must have the capacity, in terms of human resources, planiing tools, and finances, to
respond to these new demands. Municipalities in the area, including Copain Ruinas, face significanit
problems in generating their own revenue, in part due to the lack of a cadastre for tax collection In
Copan, there is also an Issue of the collection of entrance fees from the Archeological Park, which are
appropriated by the central governmenit and only in part, spent on mainteniance of the Park. This issue
has been raised in the past and is currently being negotiated between the municipality and the central
government. Also, the ToLirism Incentive Law (April 1999), designed to promote the tourism sector
after Hurricane Mitch, provides tax exemptions for new tourism developments, but it has resulted in the
uninitended consequenice of limiting municipal tax collection The Tourism Law provides incenitives, but
administrative and legal requirements to create a new busilness are cumbersome, costly, and slow, and in
general constitute a disincenitive to enterprise development, particularly in a poor area such as the
CopAn Valley
(6) Protection of Cultural' Patrimony. The Institito Hondnreiio de Aniropologia y Historia (I HAH -
Honduran Institute of Anthiropology and History) in the Secretaria de Cultlura, Artes, y Deportes
(SCAD - Ministry of Culture, Arts, and Sports) is responsible for the use and preservation of all
cultural patrimoniy associated with archeological ruins. For centuries, Maya artifacts have been
transferred out of the coulitry, reappearing in private collections and foreign museums. The GoH has
prioritized security in the archeological parks and sites since illegal artifact smuggling, which is highly
profitable, continues to be a significanit problem.



4
PID
Copan Valley Government Strategy
Government has developed strategies to address these sector issues, some of which will addressed by
the C6pan Valley Project and others by complemlientary World Bank Projects, bilateral and multilateral
donors, or by Government itself. The GoH tourism development strategy in the Western regioni is to
contribute to social and economic developmenit by valuinig attractions and diversifying existing
offerings throughi implementation of short- and medium-term plans for tourism development. This
strategy is based on several fundamental principles: (a) consultation and participatory planning with
local authlorities, communiities, and the private sector; (b) restoration and security of archeological sites,
(c) promotionl of tourism and social infrastructure, (d) partnership with the private sector and small
enterprises with incentives for local productive in itiatives; (e) environmental conservation, (f)
institutional strengtiheninig of rural municipalities in the area; and (f) promotion and marketing.
As part of this strategy, the GoH plans to create a new "Archeological Tourist Circuit." This strategy
uses Copan as a primary attraction, diversifies destinations, and facilitates visitor access to
under-utilized and/or ulideveloped sites, including the El Puenite Archeological Park, the Cerro Palenque
Archeological Site, the Los Naranjos Eco-Archeological Park, and the Plan Grande ruin1s Onl the island
of Guanaja. All five sites are accessible through the San Pedro Sula International Airport (four sites can
be reached in less thanl 3 I-hours by road and for Guaniaja in less than one hour by air). Copan and El
PueLnte (in the Departmenl of Copan near Copan Ruins) are also accessible from Guatemala by road for
tourist groups visiting other Maya sites. The road conditions are good and have been recently
rehabilitated in the aftermath of Hurricane Mitch, includinig through the World Bank-financed Road
Reconstructioni and Improvement Project Cerro Palenque is located near San Pedro Sula (a ninle mile
access road is in poor condition and rehabilitationi is planied for in the Copan Valley Project) and Los
Naranjos is located along the main road from San Pedro Sula to Tegucigalpa near Lake Yojoa (the two
mile access road is in fairly good condition) Access to Guanaja, one of the Bay Islands, is by air or boat
and then to the "Plan Graiide" site, by boat and then walking (additional informationi on these project
areas is included in Annex I I) These archeological sites also coincide with six national parks with
varying levels of developmenit that are included in the Protected Areas System of Honduras. With this
strategic choice, the GoH intenids to promote a more decentralized and inclusive model of development
that will be complemente(d with intensive capacity building, training, and incentives for local enterprise
developmenlt.
Local and central governmnents recognize the main constraints that affect the successful expansion of
tourism and are seeking finanicing meclhaniisimis to plan and address priority needs. For exaample, the
Municipality of Copan Ruln1as is currently carrying out a participatory strategic planning process and
will develop a strategic plan for investmenits in infrastructure, particularly water treatment and solid
waste managemilent. In Copan, the Ministry of Tourism and IHT are supporting municipal-level
activities including: urban development plan, historical center regulations planninlg, restoration of
public buildings, tourism police, training, munllicipal strengtheniniig, and establisiment of mullicipal
tourism units. Spanish Cooperation will be supportinig infrastructure improvements in CopAn related to
solid waste maniagemenit. The World Bank-finaniced Competitiveness Programrl will enhance
competitiveness by supporting the development of local competitiveniess strategies in four locations, to
be selected, based on theil- high economiiic development potential. It will also pilot, in one or two of
these priority areas, small-scale initiatives to increase productivity by upgrading local infrastructure,
promoting business innovationis and use of techniology, and increasing micro, small, and medium sized
enterprises' access to traininig and advisory services Government has prioritized Copan as the first pilot
area and during preparation of the Comipetitiveness Program, the Bank team will support the
organization of a public/private partnership to identify needs and formIulate a Comprehensive



5
PID
Developmenit Plan for Copan.
The GoH has been also pursuing a Decentralizationl Program to build the capacity of local governments
to support equLitable economic development, focus on poverty reduction, and ensure greater coverage of
public services. Copan Ruinas has been prioritized with the other 87 poorest municipalities. The
Country Fiianicial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), currently under preparation as part of the PRSC,
has identified several problems with the revenue and collections office and the issue of finanicial
transfers to municipalities has been identified as a key issue on the decentralization topic in the PRSC.
Several studies are currently Llider preparation to identify legislation gaps, financial systems, capacity
issues, and specific sector issues. The decentralizationi program has been supported by the United States
Agency for Internationial Development (USAID), whicih is providing technical assistance on financial
management, budgeting, and planninig to priority municipalities, including Copan Ruinas and La Jigua
(municipality of El Puente). The Japanese Interniationial Cooperation Agency (JICA) is preparing a new
initiative in the Copan Department to build municipal capacity to raise revenues to invest in services
and address economic development in the poorest areas. A second phase of the IDA-financed Land
Administration Project, currently under preparation, will include priority areas in its cadastre work.
Finally, in the Bay Islands, the IDB is supporting enviromilenital manlagemilenlt and munlicipal capacity
building with particular ermphasis on general sanitation and protection of natural resources
2. Objectives
The development objective of the Regional Development in the Copan Valley Project - Copan Valley -
is to achieve sustainable tourism development based on the cultural and natural patrimony of the Copan
Valley and surroundinig arcas wlhicih will, as a result, create investment opportunities for the private
sector, foster employmenlt, and reduce poverty in one of the poorest regions of Honduras This project
will achieve its objective by supportiig: (a) the creation of an archeological tourism circuilt integrating
three archeological parks (Copan, El Puente, and Los Naranjos) and two archeological sites (Cerro
Palenque and Plan Grande); (b) ecologically sustainable management in the three parks and two sites
and surrounding areas to address negative impacts provoked by poverty, deforestation, erosion, and
natural disasters, (c) environmental education that is appropriate to the biodiversity and the historical
characteristics of the region; (d) capacity building for employmenit associated with park/site
developmenit, eco/cultural gulding, and the tourisimn service sector; (e) strategic planning for tourism
developmenit among key community, private, and public stakeholders, (f) access to training and
technical assistance for higih-quality alternative products and services provided to indigenous and
locally-owned enterprises, tourism operators, and municipal staff to provide better services, generate
income and foster longer stays, encouraging a local investmenit climate, and (g) institutionial
strengthening for cultural management and planiniig capacity.



6
PID
3. Rationale for Bank's Inivolvement
There are five strong reasons illustrating the value-added of Bank involvelilelit in this project: First,
through the Sustainable Coastal Tourism Project, the Bank is already active in reducing poverty and
promoting prosperity through equitable eco- and heritage-based tourism. Second, this project is a
follow-up of the IDA-finaniced PROFUTURO Project, providing an opportunity to scale-up the
successful experience of finanicing several activities in the Copain Park, specifically small civil works and
capacity building. Third, several of the design characteristics of the proposed project draw from
successful lessons of two grants implemented by the Bank in the area. Fourth, the Bank is thc only
multilateral organization with experience in creating the conditions for pro-poor sustailnable tourism
development in the Copan Valley Finally, an important comparative advantage of Bank involvement is
the focus on reducilng poverty and increasinig prosperity of poor houselholds. The Bank brings decades of
experience in rural developmenlt and cultural resources management to the proposed project. The Bank
will support the actions of IHT in the integration and development of the parks and sites for tourism and
promotion of employmenit opportunities as a means to achieve the goal of improving the lives of poor
residents living in the Valley and surroundinig areas. The Bank will also seek to protect the environment
and provide opportunities and resources for the poorest houselholds.
The World Bank support for this project has catalyzed a number of agreements between the Govermilenit
(IHIAH) and top research institution1s (Harvard University, University of Pennsylvania, Tulane
University, and others) and donors (Japanese expert volunteers and others) to continue and expand their
archeological investigationi, research, and publishing about these sites in Honduras These agreements
represent a significant input into the project, which althougil not considered official co-financing,
represenlts an important contributioni to the project and to preserving the cultural patrimony of Hoonduras
4. Description
Component I - Integrated Development of Archeological Parks and Sites will create an Archeological
Tourism Circuit by financing tourism infrastructure and participatory management in three
archeological parks and two archeological sites This component will fuLid: (a) the implemiientation of
the Management Plan priorities in the Copan Archeological Park (financed under the PROFUTURO
Project), including securily equipment in the Park, environmienital management and education, cultural
education activities and community outreach, and (b) Managemenit Plans and implementation of
priorities in El Puente Archeological Park, Los Naranjos Eco-Archeological Park, Cerro Palenque
Archeological Site, and Plan Grande Archeological Site
Component 2 - Income Generationi Opportunities will implement a program of formation and incenitives
to foster income generationl opportunities for populations in the project areas, particularly the very poor.
This component will funid (a) local capacity building, skills development, and training for workers and
guides in Archeological F'arks and Sites; (b) capacity building in tourism services delivery for local
residents, including tourism operators and mullicipal staff; and (c) income generation opportunities with
a pre-feasibility study to identify profitable market niches and training and techinical assistance for
vulnerable groups on productioni and commercialization through the creation of Fondo Prosperidad.
Componenit 3 - Institutional Development will design and implement institutional strengthenilng for
IHT, IHAHI, and SCAD; a plan for tourism developmenlt by fostering consensus among public, private,
and civil society actors at the local, regional and national levels, includinig technical assistance and
training for municipalities; a marketing and promotion strategy; and a social communications strategy.
This component will funcl: (a) institutional strengtheniling and communications; and (b) enhancemlients to
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and monitorinig and evaluation.



7
PID
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $1.18
lBRD
IDA                        $12.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES          $0 17
Total Project Cost         $13 35
6. Implementation
The estimated period of implemilentationi of the project is four years. Overall project oversight and
coordination will be the responsibility of the Instituto Hondureflo cle Turismno (IHT - Honduras Institute
of Tourism).
Project Coordination Unit. The existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in IHT for the Sustainable
Coastal Tourism Project wvill serve as the PCU. The PCU will be responsible to the Bank for all project
implementation activities including procurement, accounltilng, financial reporting, auditing, and
monitoring and evaluation, and it will be enhanced with the addition of a Budget Specialist, and
accounting and procurement assistants. A small branch of the PCU will be established in Copan with a
coordinator, procurement assistant and a cultural specialist from IHAH to facilitate local-level actions.
The procuremenit, financial management, audit, and disbursement arrangements are presented in Section
E.4 and Ann1ex 6.
Technical Support Agreemrient The Instituto Hondureio cle Antropologiay Hisioria (IHAH - Honduran
Institute of Anthropology and History) has the legal mandate to preserve and protect the archeological
sites. The project design includes a Technical Support Agreemenit to be signed between IHT and IHAH
through whichi IHAH will participate in techilical support, development of terms of reference, review of
procurement, etc in all the activities related to the archeological sites The Institutional Development
component also includes specific capacity bulildilig activities for IHAH
Asociaci6n Copan/Component I Governmenit has requested the involvement of Asociaci6n Copan, a
local non-governmental entity specialized in archeological work, for technical support to IHAH for part
of Component I -- Integrated Development of Archeological Parks and Sites. This will be pursued as a
sole source contract
Fondo Prosperidad. It is expected that a NGO (Management Agency), will be selected, according to
Bank procuremenit procedlures, to adminiister the subprojects. The Agency will have experience in the
managenment of subprojects, a history of trust dealing with communities, and a presence in the area. At
least one local organization representative will participate in the decisions of the Agency regarding the
Fund. The Management Agency will report finanicially and in terms of development results each six
months to the PCU. The Agency will identify subprojects and request IHT to disburse funds for the
subprojects to the Management Agency, which will theni disburse to beneficiary groups. Disbursements
to the Managemenit Agency will be based on the commitments of the Agency with beneficiaries and on
the results achieved each six montlhs.
Advisory Committee. A highi-level advisory committee will be convened by IHT withi the participation
of the Ministry of Finance, Minister of Tourism, Minister of Culture, Arts, and Sports, IHAH Director,
and local mayors in project areas. This committee will meet regularly to review project plans and
implementation progress and will include representatives from other central and local-level governmenit
agencies and non-governmental organizations involved in the sector.



8
PID
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the project depends to a large extent on a strong and growinig tourism industry in
Honduras, particularly in the Copan Valley and surroundinlg areas Tourism grew by 20 percent in 2002
and it is expected to continiuie to increase Honduras has many attractions and the Government is currently
placing a priority on the development of new destinations to draw a greater number of tourists and
encourage longer stays. The Economic Evaluation indicates that the project is likely to be Financially and
economically profitable. The sensitivity analysis shows that the project's profitability will be sensitive to
the flow of visitors and to the number of days they stay in Honduras. This implies that the project's
success requires the effective promotioni of these archeological sites as tourist destinations, and on the
supply of tourism products and services that will make it more attractive for tourists to stay longer and
spend more money. Both aspects are backed by specific componenits in the project's design.
The implemenitation of Management Plans with an integrated conservatioln approach will preserve these
attractions for future visitors, increasing the sustainiability of the cultural and natural resources. The fiscal
impact of visitors' entrance: fees is significant, for they will provide for future operation and maintenanice
needs in these parks/sites.



9
PID
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The program in CopAn financed by the PROFUTURO Project and the GENFUND program have
generated maniy lessons and ideas, whicih have been used to inform the design and preparation of this
project. These programs have allowed for a clear identification of the economic needs in the CopAn
Valley, the natural and cultural assets, and the definition of areas to be involved in the proposed project.
The following lessons also reflect concepts from other eco/cultural tourism programs, Bank research,
Implementationi Completion Reports (ICR) Reports, and Operations Evaluations Department (OED)
findings.
Barriers to Participation of Poor in Tourism. The main lessons learned from pro-poor tourism research
shows that the following issues must be addressed if a project is to benefit the poor. (a) provision of
formal/inforimial skills training and capacity building to meet tourist expectations on issues such as
business management, language, gulde training, and/or craft development, (b) access to financial
resources, (c) participation of communlities and community-based organizations in decision-making, (d)
training in gender sensitive approaches, (e) creation of tourism that is compatible withi existing livelihood
strategies-avoid mass market tourism to reduce pressure on resources and issues of waste maniagemenlt;
(f) destination building and marketing by private sector and government is necessary; (g) development of
tourism plans and lobbying for infrastructure developmenit is important, and (h) there is a need to develop
and establish new "products" for tourists, such as destinations, visitor's centers, tours, etc.
Management Plans. Ample evidence from natiral and cultural parks around the world shows that the
development of participatory Management Plans with integrated conservation maniagement can establish
a framework for improvements and allow managers and community members to develop a consensus on
the future imianagement of lhe resource. An increase in the ntimber of visitors is welcome, but the
implications must be managed so that natural and cultural sites are not degraded. Management Plans
identify priority areas in need of immediate preservation and address long-term issues related to
conservation and education. Once a Plan is developed, the implemenitation allows for the sustainable
development of the site and expansion of attractions for visitors
Development of High Quality Alternative Attractions. Copan, as a primary site, is currently benefitilig
from a higih influx of visitors, but as is the case in other Maya sites in Mesoamerica, most visitors only
stay for a short tine as part of national or interinationial tour packages Sustainable tourism projects
should promote alternative attractions so visitors stay longer, visit additional parks, and spend additional
resources. The Copan Valley possesses many cultural and natural attractions, but they wvill not become
tourist products until identified, made accessible, staffed withi well-trained guides, advertised, and Inked
via distribution and sales mechianiisisis to the market
Community Participation and Benefit can Lead to Sustainability Incorporation of those living near a
natural or cultural asset is the best way to preserve physical and living culture and ensure sustainiable use
by the local residents. Local residents and indigenious commullities will be encouraged to participate in
the project through the training and educational opportinities and access to the Fondo Prosperidad
Institutionial Development. Thle strengthieniling of national institutionIs responsible for sustainiable tourism
development and cultural her-itage preservation is essential to the long-term sustainability of projects
involving archeological sites. An important part of this institutional development is the establishment of
enhanced communication and coordination with all involved agencies
Preservation of the Environmienit and Cultural Heritage. One way of achieving the preservation of the



10
PID
environment and cultural heritage is by building a stake in thein conservation The project will implement
a strategy that wvill make conservationi measures productive for both the private sector and the poor
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues    An Envirol-nenital Assessment was carried out with visits to the five project areas,
consultations with involved officials, reviewv of existing informiationi and maps, and consultatioln with the
Protected Areas Department in SERNA. The EA category of B is confirmed
No major environimienital iiimpacts are envisionied in this project, however the EA does highlight potential
synergistic impacts that may be caused by tourist development such as: unplanined park development;
increase in neighboring populations; the impact of a larger numliber of visitors on natural and cultural
resources; an increase in demand for public services such as water and electricity, and the generation of
waste and garbage. The project will seek to reduce the impacts caused by tourism development by
including a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) withinl the Management Plans for each park and
site. The EA documenit provides a conceptual model for the development of participatory Management
Plans (Annex 4 of EA), which can be adapted to the needs of each particular area The Managemelit
Plans xvill include a detailed monitoring plan to identify and mitigate any potential problems.
Infrastructure sub-components will entail mainly the rehabilitationi and/or expansioni of existiig
infrastructure Impacts from new infrastructure such as expansion of existing electric transmissioni lies
and archeological research laboratories will be direct and localized in specific areas. The EA
recommends three methodological tools to be applied for infrastructure activities: (a) guide for
categorization of projects based on type of project and level of sensitivity, taking into account the
Safeguard Policies of the Bank; (b) fieldwork checklist to deteminiie potential social aiid environmental
impacts of infrastructure subprojects, and (c) an environimental manual for all infrastructure subprojects
which addresses among other items: site selection, construction activities and environmental
specifications for contractors, preventative measures, security, communication with commullnity,
chance-finding procedures, and environmental supervision durinig the construction. Models and formats
for these tools are included in the full EA document. The PCU will be responsible for ensuL-inlg execution
of the SEAs, screening of the works, and application of the constructioni manuals.
There are not expected to be any significant environmental impacts from the subprojects implemented by
the Fondo Prosperidad. Thils Fund can actually serve to support the enviroi-nenital educationi programs
Criteria will be specified in the Operational Manual with an emphiasis on ecological and environimental
awareness
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Maria-Valeria Pena
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433



11
PID
Telephone 202-473-5763
Fax: 202-522-0262
12 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http 11 www worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  04/23/2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
____8     C    H _  r   , . FEEDSACK  I _J  l  S_e ONcASE



