DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1623a-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
PINEAPPLE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
June 16, 1975
Tltis report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CULRR4CY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               = 20.46 Syi
SyJA 1             = us$o.o04
Syli 1 million     = US$48,878
ABBREVIATIO'WS
BNDA  - Banque Nationale do Developpement Agricole
IFAC  - Institut Frangais de Recherches Fruitieres Outre-Mer
INRAF - Institut National de Recherches Agronomiques de FoulJaya
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



For consideration on
June 26, 1975
IDA/R75-63/1
FROM:  The Secretary                           June 18, 1975
GUINEA: Pineapple Development Project
Corrigendum
The following correction should be made in the President's Report
and Recommendation on a proposed pineapple development project in Guinea
distributed on June 16, 1975 (IDA/R75-63):
In paragraph 43, delete item (iv), and
renumber item (v) as item (iv)
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice President, Operations
Executive Vice President and Vice President, IFC
President's Council
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A PINEAPPLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Guinea for the equivalent of US$7.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a project to develop the pine-
apple industry and to provide technical assistance in the rice and livestock
sub-sectors. Part of the proceeds of this credit will be on-lent to a State
company, Daboya, responsible for pineapple production.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report (No. AF-63b, dated September 1, 1967) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 22, 1968. Economic missions
visited the country in November 1970, February 1973, and January 1974. The
findings of the latest mission are incorporated below. Country data appear
in Annex I.
Economic Structure
3.        Guinea's natural endowments make it potentially one of the richest
countries in West Africa, with substantial resources in the rural sector,
mining and hydroelectric power. Rural potential is very diversified, reflect-
ing the different climatic conditions throughout the country, ranging from the
sub-saharan north and sub-tropical mountain areas in the center to tropical
forest in the south. The wide variety of agricultural commodities which can
be produced includes such food crops as rice, cassava and maize and such
export crops as coffee, pineapples, palm kernels and bananas. The country is
particularly well suited for rice production and cattle raising. With respect
to mineral resources, Guinea's bauxite deposits are tentatively estimated at
4-5 billion tons, equivalent to nearly half of the world's known reserves.
High grade iron ore deposits are estimated to be over one billion tons.
4.        Despite the country's natural resources, economic growth has been
slow, probably not more than an average annual rate of 2.5 percent since
Independence in 1958, or somewhat less than estimated population growth (2.8
percent p.a.). In 1972, GNP was estimated at US$450 million, population at
5.1 million, and per capita income at US$90. Latest estimates show the con-
tinuing predominance of agriculture and related activities in the country's
structure of production. Thus, in 1972 the rural sector contributed 49 per-
cent of GDP, mining and manufacturing about 12 percent, public administration
about 17 percent and transportation, construction and other services the
remaining 22 percent. With respect to the distribution of income, estimates
made on the basis of the official 1973 census indicate that GNP per capita
might be on the order of US$55 in the rural sector and US$315 in the non-
rural sectors.



5.        Since Independence in 1958, a comprehensive reorganization of
economic and social activities has been undertaken with a view to building a
socialist economy. This has entailed a sharp curtailment in the role of the
private sector and a corresponding increase in that of the Government, public
agencies and state enterprises. Manufacturing and banking are almost entirely
controlled by state enterprises while mining has been declared a mixed sector,
with Government and foreign companies working together. Trade in agricultural
and consumer commodities is de jure Government controlled, but a large parallel
market continues to function outside the official system of price controls and
state trading enterprises. Similarly, despite more than ten years of effort
to introduce cooperative and collective production and marketing systems
throughout the agricultural sector, traditional forms of farm organization
prevail. The emergence of two separate production and marketing systems, one
operating through official channels with controlled prices and rationing and
the other operating through unofficial channels at much higher price levels,
is a major structural weakness of the present Guinean economy. The Govern-
ment has recently taken steps to abolish this unofficial system but it
remains to be seen whether these attempts will succeed.
Economic Objectives
6.        The Government's economic objectives may be viewed in the context
of its development plans, which have emphasised infrastructure, manufactur .g
and mining. Over the last ten years, Ilan outlays have averaged 15-16 per-
cent of GNP, increasing from some US$53 million per year between 1966 and
1970 to nearly US$70 million during tne past three yea-s, when implementatior,
of the Boke and Kindia bauxite mines resulted in a sharp increase of invest-
ments. These figures include not only public investments per se, but also
private participation in major mining enterprises which might account for
approximately 80 percent of total investment in the country. From May 1964
to September 1971, investments were carried out in the framework of a Seven
Year Plan. On the whole, Plan implementation reached a high 81 percent of
its goals; however, this was due primarily to much higher mining investments
than originally anticipated, which partly resulted from the far greater than
expected costs of the Boke project. Excluding investments in mining, manu-
facturing, and energy (accounting for 47 percent of total Plan outlays) 58
percent of Plan targets were fulfilled. The shortfall was particularly marked
in the rural sector with a fulfillment rate of only 38 percent; this reduced
the share of rural development outlays to 6.9 percent of total Plan outlays
as compared to the original target of 15 percent. Transport and communications
accounted for one-third of total Plan expenditures.
Performance
7.        The emphasis in the Government's investment strategy on heavy out-
lays in infrastructure, mining and manufacturing combined with the relative
neglect of agriculture, contributed to serious economic difficulties during
the period of the Seven Year Plan. Expansion and improvement of the infra-
structure of the country did not stimulate rural production which was in-
creasingly hampered by lack of producer incentives. Investment in mining



-3-
did not generate a significant rise in mineral output and export during the
Plan time-span, given the long gestation periods of the projects undertaken.
Many new manufacturing plants were set up in the seven years, but production
of most of them remained at low levels relative to capacity because of poor
designs, lack of local raw material and unavailability of spare parts. With
declining exports of the country's principal agricultural commodities and
rising import demand, the balance of payments came under substantial pressure.
Heavy foreign borrowing brought debt service obligations to exceptional levels,
which in turn put a drain not only on limited foreign exchange resources but
on government revenues as well. At the end of 1972, Guinea's public foreign
debt, outstanding and disbursed, stood at an estimated 94 percent of GNP,
with a total debt service ratio, including service due on debt deferred
through rescheduling, approaching 60 percent. Actual debt service payments
in 1972 were, however, 25 percent of export earnings (Annex I).
8.        Guinea's long-term development record has been disappointing but
there have been marginal improvements in performance over the past three years.
First, inflationary financing of public development outlays has been sharply
curtailed. As a result, the money supply has increased very little. While
this has not altered the fundamental disequilibrium between demand and supply,
at least the situation has not worsened. Second, after a period of large
budget deficits on current accounts in the late 1960s, current budgetary sur-
pluses were realized in each of the three years 1969/70 - 1971/72. Third,
the performance of public enterprises has somewhat improved; while their
production does not seem to have risen much, their financial situation has
definitely improved, contributing among other things to better public finance
performance. Fourth, management of the foreign debt has become more efficient;
the considerable short-term debt in the form of accumulated deficits of bila-
teral trading accounts has been consolidated and the use of supplier credits
has declined. As a result, authorities have regained some margin of maneuver
with their foreign resources, and foreign exchange reserves have slightly
increased. Fifth, overall economic management shows signs of improvement as
a result of more and better-qualified local staff. Technical ministries are
better staffed, but still suffer from over-centralization of decision making.
Prospects
9.        These factors have been either too limited or too recent to lead to
tangible changes in the overall economy, which is still seriously depressed.
However, the situation is likely to improve substantially over the next
decade because of sharply expanding mining production which will bring about
sizeable improvements in the country's balance of payments and public savings.
Guinea's situation is the more favorable as the two major bauxite projects
were completed (Boke in the fall of 1973, Kindia in mid-1974) before world-
wide inflation pushed up investment costs. Exports from these projects along
with a 10 percent increase in Friguia's alumina output will alone double the
value of exports in constant 1972 prices by the year 1977. At current prices,
total export values in 1977 would be six times as high as in 1972 (US$350
million compared with US$57 million in 1972). Import prices during the same



- 4 -
period are projected to rise by 75 percent. Looking farther ahead, prospects
for continued growth in mining production and exports are excellent, and in-
clude additional bauxite expansion as well as some 5 million tons of iron
ore annually from Mount Nimba by the early 1980s.
10.       The projected increase in export earnings will permit the Govern-
ment much more maneuverability in its balance of payments and public financial
policies. Nevertheless, during the next two or three years the Government
will be constrained by the existing claims of public debt service and trans-
fers associated with the new mining enterprises, which are expected to run
at annual levels of $60 million and $70 million respectively. The extent to
which foreign exchange resource availabilities over and above these amounts
will contribute to real economic development depends very much on the orienta-
tion of public development policies.
11.       In this connection, development of the rural sector would permit--
more than any other strategy--the bulk of Guinea's population to participate
in the expected benefits from mining. At the same time, it would enlarge the
country's production base and make it less dependent on price fluctuations of
minerals. Creation of job opportunities in the rural sector--for which there
is a definite potential in Guinea--would also help slow down rural-urban migra-
tion with all its social and economic problems.
12.       Under the circumstances, except for the possible development of
aluminum transforming industries, medium and long-term rural development ought
to receive top priority in parallel with expansion of mining industries. With-
in the rural sector, development of smallholder farming and livestock herding
ought to receive primary attention although some plantation development also
could be justified, particularly nucleus estates providing extension services
to outgrowers. Such an investment strategy should not exclusively concentrate
on directly productive investments, but also include improvement of the neces-
sary transport infrastructure, rural education, and health. There is now
evidence that the Government is thinking along these lines and is exploring
ways and means to develop the rural economy.
13.       With respect to the fiscal situation, budgetary revenues are expected
to increase four times through 1977, particularly owing to rises in taxes and
profit sharing revenues from mining companies as well as to rising receipts
from import duties. Current expenditures are projected to grow by at least
16 percent annually from 1972-77 considering that there is a serious need for
increased current expenditure, first of all in the rural sector and for road
maintenance throughout the country. With this probably somewhat conservative
expenditure estimate public savings could attain the high level of 15 percent
of GDP in 1977, which would offer scope for more intensive development efforts.
14.       Through 1977 the balance of payments is likely to remain under pres-
sure, in particular if the gains from bauxite mining are not used for short
gestation period projects. This is due to transfer payments associated with
the recently established mining enterprises, imports in association with
expected new mining investments and to the expected and much-needed rise in



-5-
imports of intermediate and consumer goods. During 1972-80, imports are pro-
jected to rise by 20 percent annually in current prices and 8 percent in con-
stant terms. Throughout the period, import demand, debt service and transfer
payments will substantially exceed export and other current foreign exchange
receipts and an average annual gross public capital inflow on the order of
US$100 million will be required.
Foreign Assistance, Debt Service and Terms of Lending
15.       Guinea has always received a high amount of foreign aid.   During
1970-72, gross capital inflow averaged about US$55 million per year, or nearly
US$14 per capita. Until 1970, about 60 percent of that aid came from centrally
planned economies. Large IBRD disbursements for the Boke project reduced this
share to an average of 45 percent in 1970-72. The bulk of foreign aid was in
the form of loans and credits (in part on very soft terms) while grant aid has
been limited. Since the resources necessary to service debt were not generated,
frequent and sizeable debt rescheduling became inevitable. However, with the
jump in bauxite revenues, the debt service ratio, which amounted to about 25
percent in 1972 in actual payments, may decrease to well below 20 percent in
the late seventies.
16.       There is now some evidence of the Government's heightened concern to
improve resource allocation and economic management--both necessary corollaries
of capital assistance if it is to be effective in promoting development. In
view of the deferred debts and notwithstanding the more favorable prospects
for Guinea's export growth and financial position, the country's ability to
service new borrowing is negligible and its creditworthiness vis-a-vis private
and other lenders is doubtful. Yet Guinea will still need large gross capital
inflows through 1980 to realize its development potential. In view of the
above constraints and Guinea's low per capita income, assistance ought to be
given on highly concessionary terms and donors should be prepared to finance
a proportion of the local costs of development projects.
17.       An economic mission to re-evaluate the country's situation and
prospects is planned for the next fiscal year.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
18.       In the past, Bank Group lending to Guinea has included three loans
in the mining sector, all associated with the Boke bauxite mining project. In
1966 the Bank made a US$1.7 million loan (Sl-GUI) for engineering studies for
infrastructure related to the Boke mine. This loan was absorbed by the 1968
US$64.5 miUlion construction loan (577-GUI) for the mining town-site and for
port and railway facilities to provide a transportation system for exporting
the bauxite. The 1971 US$9.0 million Boke extension loan (766-GUI) increased
project capacity when the mine's annual production at full development was
expanded from the originally planned 6.6 million tons annually to 9.2 million



-6-
tons. The Bank's project has been completed satisfactorily about a year be-
hind schedule despite an accident in July 1974 which damaged two locomotives
and a large section of track and hampered full utilization of the railroad.
The mine financed by a consortium of private sponsors with Government par-
ticipation is also complete, although harder than anticipated bauxite has
necessitated substantial modifications, which are still going on, in the
crushing machinery and a slower than anticipated build-up in bauxite produc-
tion. An estimated 4.5 million tons of bauxite will be exported this year
up from 700,000 tons last year when the mine was completed and began operations.
De6spite the delays, the successful completion of the construction phase of
both the mine and the infrastructure has demonstrated the feasibility of
establishing large-scale mining ventures in Guinea. Annex II contains a
summary statement of the Bank loans to Guinea as of May 31, 1975.
19.       The Bank Group's involvement in Guinea has been limited to the Boke
project, as the country was not considered creditworthy for Bank lending other
than for enclave projects of that type. The problems Guinea has had in sus-
taining an effective development plan and in managing its economic affairs,
together with its lack of emphasis on the rural sector, have made it diffi-
cult until now to envisage IDA lending and to agree on the exact nature of
projects submitted to the Bank for financing. Now, however, there is some
evidence (para. 8) of improvement in fiscal and monetary management, and of
opportunities for development afforded by the increased financial resources
expected during the next few years from mining operations. In addition,
Government is exploring ways of developing the rural economy. We believe that
these signs of improvement in Government's policies and priorities provide
grounds for Bank Group assistance in sectors other than enclave mining,
initially on a modest scale. In the light of Guinea's poverty and low per
capita income and the size of its prospective debt service obligations, this
assistance should be on IDA terms.
20.       Our strategy for our future lending to Guinea is to improve condi-
tions in the rural sector. To accomplish this we will continue to encourage
the involvement of private sources of finance in the mining sector, with our
participation if necessary, while working with Government to facilitate the
transfer of benefits accruing from mining operations to rural areas. The major
constraints impeding rural development which must be overcome are poor sector
planning and a concomitant inability to properly prepare projects, weak insti-
tutions and a general lack of technical expertise to implement projects, and
a manifest lack of real assistance to and incentives for producers. We are
seeking to develop projects, such as the proposed one, to demonstrate that
farmer incentives are basic to agricultural development.
21.       In the light of the above-mentioned constraints we propose a stra-
tegy of financing a limited number of relatively small but carefully defined
projects in various subsectors of rural Guinea (fruit, rice, livestock, high-
way maintenance) which, if successfully executed, could provide the foundation
for greater external assistance by the Bank Group and other donors outside of
their traditional involvement in mining. At the same time, we intend to pursue
our dialogue with the Government on measures to improve its management of
economic affairs and to increase the allocation of resources to help the rural
population increase its standard of living.



- 7 -
22.       The Bank Group's share in Guinea's publicly guaranteed external debt
outstanding and disbursed amounted to about 16 percent at the end of 1972 (the
latest year for which we have detailed information on publicly guaranteed
external debt). At that time, the Bank Group's share of debt service payments
was nil as amortization of the Boke loans had not yet begun.
23.       There have been no IFC operations in Guinea and none is being
considered at this time.
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       Agriculture constitutes the way of life for most Guineans and an
occupation for two-thirds of the country's labor force, although it accounts
for slightly less than half of GDP, and only about 25 percent of exports. Per
capita GDP in Guinea's rural sector was estimated at about US$55 in 1972,
little more than half of the national average. Most landholdings consist of
small individual plots cultivated for subsistence purposes but land is not in
short supply as population pressure is not generally heavy in Guinea, except
in the central part of Fouta Djalon (Middle Guinea). Estate agriculture is
limited to about 5,000 ha of mostly privately-owned, quite small banana and
pineapple operations and to two small Government owned tea and chinchona
estates. Guinea's staple foods are rice, cassava, maize, millet and sweet
potatoes; its main agricultural exports are pineapples, bananas, coffee, and
palm kernels. Guinea has four principal eco-climatic zones which provide a
relatively good and diversified agricultural potential. Lower Guinea com-
prises mainly the humid low-lying coastal plain and is where pineapple and
banana production is concentrated. Middle Guinea, with altitudes between
600 and 1,500 m, is the main center for food crop and livestock production.
About 75 percent of the national cattle herd, estimated at between 1.5 and
2 million head, are in this region. Upper Guinea, a region of transition
between the forest and the savannah, has a long dry season but an important
potential for irrigated agriculture on the flood plains of the Niger River
and its affluents. The Forest Region in the south and southeast of the
country comprises tropical rain forest and produces most of the country's
coffee crop. In spite of Guinea's high average annual rainfall, which varies
from 1,500 to 3,500 mm depending on the region, the long dry season, usually
four to six months, makes irrigation essential for more than single-cropping
outside the Forest Region.
25.       While accurate information on Guinea's rural sector is difficult to
obtain, it appears that agriculture has not progressed significantly in the
last 15 years. Exports of bananas, pineapples, coffee and palm kernels were
valued at about US$17 million in 1957 and at the same level in 1966 but had
fallen to only US$11 million in 1973. As agricultural exports have declined,
food imports have increased, domestic food production being unable to meet
demand, particularly demand in urban areas. Rice production, which had been
increasing up to 1969, has since been holding steady at about 400,000 tons per
year, necessitating growing rice imports which now amount to about 70,000 tons
annually. Guinea was the first sub-Saharan African country to develop a major
tropical fruit growing and exporting industry. Bananas were the main export



-8-
crop prior to Independence. However, a number of problems have combined to
drastically reduce the amounts exported since then. These include increases
in costs for producers, difficulties in controlling crop disease, inability to
obtain needed import materials for the production process due to a lack of
foreign exchange, and the problem of attracting labor because of lack of
incentives. Banana exports declined from 100,000 tons in 1955 to about 600
tons in 1973. Many banana growers switched from banana to pineapple produc-
tion because the latter crop is less susceptible to disease and pests, requires
less labor, and became financially more attractive following trade arrange-
ments for pineapples made between Guinea and the USSR and East European
countries and the setting of favorable producer prices. Pineapple exports
grew from 50 tons in 1957 to 11,000 tons in 1972 but have since declined to
an estimated 7,000 tons in 1973 because of Government's difficulties in
effectively providing growers with adequate support services.
26.       The main constraints on agricultural development in Guinea appear to
be the lack of producer incentives, inefficient support services for farmers,
and scarcity of foreign exchange needed to import essential agricultural inputs
such as equipment and fertilizers. As far as incentives are concerned, offi-
cial producer prices for agricultural products are generally too low and Gov-
ernment's allocation of scarce consumer goods has not favored rural areas.
Consequently, there have been few incentives for farmers to produce above
the level necessary for their own subsistence. An important side effect of
this situation has been migration to Conakry where such consumer goods as
Guinea is able to import are available.
27.       Recently, Government has tried to put more emphasis on rural develop-
ment. As a first step, a new super ministry was created in 1973 to encompass
the entire rural sector and to pursue Government's stated goals of eliminating
food imports, processing of agricultural products in Guinea, and stemming
urban migration by improving rural life. A second innovation is the establish-
ment of agricultural "brigades" for existing farmers and for school leavers.
It is planned that these brigades, which would operate on a collective basis,
should enter into sales contracts with Government for their production in
return for which Government would advance the necessary farm inputs and
services. The success of these brigades is uncertain in view of the problem
of incentives that is common to the sector as a whole. Government has in-
creased its expenditures in absolute terms for the rural sector in the Third
Development Plan (1973-78) but they nevertheless represent only 9 percent of
total Plan outlays (excluding those for the mining sector).
28.       A Bank Group economic mission visited Guinea in 1974 and inter alia
assisted Government in identifying various agricultural development options.
These included rice, livestock and pineapple operations. The proposed project
comprises investments to stimulate pineapple production and to assist the
preparation of projects in the rice and livestock sub-sectors.



-9-
PART IV: TIlE PROJECT
29.       The Government of Guinea has asked the Association to help finance
a pineapple development project and studies of the country's rice and live-
stock sub-sectors. The project was identified by the Association in early
1973 and prepared by Government and the Regional Mission in Western Africa
using Yugoslav and French consultants. The project was appraised in October
1974. Negotiations took place from May 21 to June 3, 1975 with a delegation
headed by Mr. Louis Holie, le Ministre des Grands Amenagements et des Eaux et
Forets. A credit and project summary is attached as Annex III. The appraisal
report (No. 697a-GUI) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Description of the Project
30.       The project would establish an irrigated pineapple estate of about
420 ha (of which not less than 360 ha would be for the actual cultivation of
pineapple) to be managed by Daboya, a new State enterprise; it would in addi-
tion improve the road transportation and fruit handling service of Fruitex,
the State fruit exporting company, supply technical assistance for project
management, and conduct research on pineapple production, transportation, and
marketing. The project would also provide pineapple growers near the Daboya
estate with a package of support services to aid them in increasing their
productivity. Studies of the rice and livestock sub-sectors would be included
in the project and future projects in these sub-sectors would be identified
and prepared.
The Daboya Pineapple Estate
31.       The estate would be established near Kindia in Lower Guinea where
climatic conditions favor production of a high quality pineapple. Apart from
production of pineapples for export (about 600-900 ha are so cultivated),
agriculture in Kindia remains largely at the subsistence level. The Daboya
estate would help to guarantee a supply of high quality fruit for export and
to reverse the decline that has occurred in Guinea's pineapple exports over
the last few years. The estate would also demonstrate an integrated approach
to agricultural development which could be applied to other agricultural pro-
duction activities and be replicated elsewhere in Guinea. In addition, the
estate would serve as a center for extending modern farming practices in the
region. The estate would develop basic cultivation techniques, engage in
applied research, train personnel, and serve as a demonstration to individual
pineapple growers in the area, the outgrowers; the estate would supply out-
growers with the broad range of support services necessary to improve pine-
apple cultivation.
32.       Following detailed soil and topographic surveys needed to determine
the exact layout of the irrigation system, an estate plan would be prepared
to develop about 420 ha over a period of five years. The tenure rights for the
estate land, which is presently being used for low productivity shifting
cultivation, would be vested in Daboya by Government (Section 3.07(b) of the



- 10 -
draft Credit Agreement). Present users of the land would be compensated for
fixed assets and would be the most likely to benefit from the estate in terms
of employment and the increase in economic activity from the project. Water
for the estate would come from the already existing Kale reservoir. A
sprinkler irrigation system would be constructed in three phases as the area
un'der cultivation is expanded.
Transport and Marketing
33.       Because pineapples are susceptible to bruising and mechanical injury
when being handled and shipped, the project would improve the pineapple trans-
portation system for the export market. Daboya would build and operate its
own packing station on the estate and use farm tractors and trailers to bring
fruit from fields to the station, where Fruitex's vehicles would pick it
up. Vehicles and spare parts for Fruitex's road transportation fleet, and
additional and specialized equipment for the port of Conakry would also be
purchased to upgrade the existing transportation facilities. Fruitex's work-
shop would be rehabilitated. Trials would be conducted to determine the most
efficient internal and external transportation systems for fresh pineapples
and to seek out new export markets, particularly in Western European countries.
Assistance to Outgrowers
34.       The Daboya estate would provide a package of services to outgrowers,
most of whom are organized in cooperatives. These services would include
technical assistance, the provision of inputs (irrigation and other agricul-
tural equipment, fertilizers, insecticides., packing materials), and collection
of fruit to be transported by Fruitex to the port. Banque Nationale de
Developpement Agricole (BNDA) would provide outgrowers associated with the
Daboya estate with credit at a minimum of 9% interest to pay for farm inputs
and packing materials (Section 4.04 (b) of the draft Credit Agreement). By
the end of the project implementation period assistance to outgrowers would
cover about 50 percent of the land in the Kindia area presently under pine-
apple cultivation.
Research and Training
35.       Research on pineapple cultivation is necessary to ensure fruit quality
and to increase productivity. The Project would provide for a program of
applied research in such high priority areas as reduction of the production
cycle, plant nutrition, spacing of plants, optimum irrigation and fertiliza-
tion levels, and plant diseases and reproduction. The research would be
carried out by Daboya in cooperation with the Institut National de Recherches
Agronomique de Foulaya (INRAF) which is responsible for pineapple research in
Guinea. Government agreed during negotiations to have INRAF join with ex-
perienced and qualified pineapple research experts in a cooperative program
of applied research on pineapples (Section 3.08 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Field trials would be carried out to determine if recent advances in pineapple
cultivation in other countries can be duplicated on a large-scale under Guinean



conditions. The project would also provide Guineans with overseas fellowships
in irrigation, pineapple marketing, and vehicle maintenance; this training
would be an important step toward providing local management for the project.
Technical Assistance
36.       Funds will be provided under the Credit for consultant services to
assist the Ministry of Rural Development in carrying out the rice growing and
livestock production studies in Guinea and to recommend appropriate policies
in these sub-sectors to the Government. These analyses and recommendations
would form the bases for the consultants to prepare development programs and
specific rice and livestock investment projects suitable for external financing.
Management and Implementation
37.       Daboya is a new state enterprise which was established by presidential
decree just prior to negotiations specifically to run the project plantation
and provide the package of services to outgrowers. Daboya is under the control
of the Ministry of Agriculture which itself is responsible to the higher
Ministry of Rural Development. Fruitex, a wholly-owned Government entity, was
established in 1971 and is charged with buying fruit from local producers,
arranging for its export, and conducting studies of potential foreign markets
for Guinean fruit. Fruitex is under the control of the Ministry of External
Trade which itself is responsible to an overall Ministry of Trade. The Director
of Daboya would be the Project Manager of the pineapple production component
of the IDA-financed project; the relationship between this enterprise and
Fruitex will be formalized in a contract, the conclusion of which is a con-
dition of credit effectiveness. The managers of the pineapple estate and of
Fruitex's transport workshop plus two other field positions (estate engineer
and research/extension officer) would be filled by internationally recruited
personnel whose assistants would be Guinean (Sections 3.09 and 3.10 of the
draft Credit Agreement). All positions associated with the project would be
filled by Guineans by the end of the IDA credit disbursement period. The
livestock and rice studies would be under the supervision of the Ministry of
Rural Development and carried out with the assistance of consultants.
Financial Results
38.       Guinea's fiscal system is based on those employed by the centrally
planned countries. One feature of it is that Government may, and frequently
does, set prices for inputs and outputs that are not linked to international
market prices. This is the situation in the case of pineapples where the
producer price is very high when compared with those paid elsewhere. Another
feature of the system is that for public enterprises, conventional financial
criteria, such as the rate of return, are not considered appropriate and given
the pricing controls employed, are frequently irrelevant. The latter would
be so in the case of the pineapple estate. However, through budget control
procedures involving the annual review by Government and IDA of detailed cost
estimates and production targets, satisfactory levels of production efficiency



- 12 -
and financial discipline would be ensured. Outgrowers would continue to be
motivated by price, and during negotiations assurances were obtained from
Government that it would guarantee, inter alia, that producer prices would
be set so as to provide an incentive for outgrowers to produce pineapples.
The Government would submit to the Association for its approval the procedures
for establishing prices to be paid by Fruitex to Daboya and outgrowers for
pineapple (Section 4.06 of the draft Credit Agreement). Credit would be
provided to outgrowers at a minimum interest rate of 9% and outgrowers would
be required to pay for the costs of advisory and other support services pro-
vided to them.
P_oposed Financing
39.       The proposed IDA credit of US$7.0 million would finance the US$5.7
million foreign exchange costs of the project as well as the equivalent of
US$1.3 million of local costs or 82 percent of the US$8.5 million total project
costs net of taxes. The remainder of expected project costs would be met by
outgrowers who would be required to provide the equivalent of US$0.2 million
for incremental on-farm costs from their own resources; and by Government which
would be required to provide the equivalent of US$1.3 million.
40.       The IDA credit for pineapple estate and outgrower components will be
on-lent from Government through BNDA acting as its agent to Daboya at a rate
of not less than 6 percent with a term of 25 years including six years of
grace for principal and interest (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Credit Agree-
ment); during negotiations, Government agreed to consult with IDA after one
year on the interest rate to be charged for this loan with a view to possibly
increasing it following a review of BNDA's lending policies. Government's
own contribution as well as proceeds of the IDA credit employed for the other
cowponents of the project would be passed on as grants.
41.       Retroactive financing is required for equipment and fertilizers for
the nucleus estate, erployment of key staff, and consultants. During nego-
tiations it was agreed that retroactive financing would be provided up to a
maximum of US$100,000 for expenditures incurred after June 1, 1975 (Schedule
1, paragraph 4 (a) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
42.       All contracts over US$50,000 for the procurement of vehicles, farm
and irrigation equipment, electrical and mechanical plant, fertilizers and
other farm inputs, and packing materials (totalling about US$2.8 million) would
be through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15% or the
level of applicable import duty, whichever is lower when comparing domestic
bids with those of foreign manufacturers. Procurement contracts for amounts
of less than US$50,000 would be through competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with Government procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts for
the installation of the irrigation system, land clearing and construction and
rehabilitation of buildings (totalling about US$1.2 million) would be indi-
vidually too small and too dispersed over time (5 years) to attract inter-
national contractors and would therefore be awarded on the basis of competitive



- 13 -
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with procedures to be agreed
with IDA. Contracts with consultants (about US$300,000) for the rice and
livestock studies, and those required under the pineapple component of the
project for technical assistance, training of Guinean staff, and investi-
gation of new markets (totalling about US$600,000) would be obtained under
arrangements agreeable to IDA, as would be internationally recruited staff
(about US$900,000). An estimated US$2.8 million would be expended on items
such as local staff salaries, labor, personnel allowances, operating costs
of vehicles and equipment and other general expenditures that would not lend
themselves to competitive procurement. The foregoing estimated amounts are
net of physical and price contingencies for which about US$2.5 million is
provided. The difference of US$2.6 million between the sum of the procurement
items and contingencies listed above, US$11.1 million, and total expected
project costs, US$8.5 million, represents nucleus estate operating costs in
the IDA credit disbursement period which would be financed by self-generated
revenues, but which, for convenience, Government has indicated that it would
procure in the same way as items financed by IDA. To avoid delay lp the
implementation of the Project, the Government requested IDA to make suitable
arrangements, on financial terms and conditions acceptable to Guinea, for
the provision of pineapple experts' services to assist Daboya in the planta-
tion development and for the recruitment by IDA of Daboya's expatriate staff,
such experts and expatriate staff to be made available to Guinea under Second-
ment Contracts from the Association.
43.       The credit would be disbursed against:  (i) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures of the contract cost of consultant services and of the costs of
overseas training fellowships; (ii) 80 percent of land clearing and develop-
ment costs, of estate civil works costs and of building construction and
furniture costs; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90 percent of
local expenditures of the costs for the purchase of all vehicles, tractors,
farm equipment, refrigerated containers and dock equipment, spares for the
foregoing, and of the costs of farm inputs required in the investment phase
of the estate and by outgrowers; (iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or
90 percent of local expenditures for equipment renewals, farm inputs and
packing materials required for the operation of the estate during the IDA
credit disbursement period; (v) 100 percent of salaries and allowances net of
taxes of Daboya's and Fruitex's internationally recruited staff. US$2.0
million of the IDA credit would be unallocated to cover physical and price
contingencies.
Economic Benefits and Rate of Return
44.       At full development, the project would produce an additional annual
output of about 10,200 tons of pineapple from estate and outgrower production
with a gross value of about US$3 million at world market prices. It is assumed
that all project production would be marketed in the USSR and Eastern Europe.
The economic return from the combined directly productive pineapple components
(the Daboya estate and outgrower program) is estimated at about 18 percent:
15 percent for the estate alone and 38 percent for the outgrower program alone.



- 14 -
45.       Although about 800 jobs would be created or sustained by the project,
it would not lead to improvements in the living standards of large numbers of
people in the rural area. Rather, the project would introduce to Guinea con-
cepts and techniques of agricultural development, particularly in fruit produc-
tion, which could in the longer term, benefit large segments of the rural
population. Furthermore, should the studies of rice cultivation and livestock,
which are part of the project, result in feasible projects as we anticipate,
there would be further opportunity for stimulation of agricultural production
and improvement of living standards among the smallholders comprising the
bulk of the rural population.
46.       An important justification for this project, beyond the immediate
benefits it is expected to generate, lies in the opportunity it affords to
demonstrate basic organizational and development techniques which must be
adopted if progress is to be made in overcoming the many obstacles to develop-
ment of the rural sector in Guinea. These obtacles represent the principal
risks which the project will be facing; they fall under three major headings;
(i) weak institutions, (ii) lack of foreign exchange, and (iii) absence of
incentives for paid labor and private producers. In the context of fresh
pineapple production and marketing, the project provides for institutional
strengthening through technical assistance and training and financing of
essential infrastructure for the state enterprises directly engaged plus a
high degree of financial and administrative autonomy for their management;
by integration of research, extension, input supply, credit and marketing
services in the project, the institutions providing these services to the
rural sector will also benefit from project experience. By assuring the
availability of foreign exchange through the proceeds of the credit, the
project will provide in a timely fashion the necessary farm inputs and equip-
ment needed to increase pineapple yields on the plantation and on the farms
of the associated outgrowers. During the implementation of the project, the
Government has agreed to consult with the Association on the pricing struc-
ture required to give adequate incentives to pineapple producers; the Govern-
ment has further agreed to make available to paid labor working on the
plantation a package of goods and food at reasonable prices so as to provide
work incentives. The general absence of consumer goods in the rural areas,
in part a result of foreign exchange constraints, will not, of course, be
substantially affected by the project; the Government has, however, recognized
this as a major constraint: to rural development which may jeopardize the
success of this project.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
47.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Guinea and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 15 -
48.        Conditions of credit effectiveness would include:   appointment of
the director of Daboya and of the estate's manager; conclusion of arrangements
between Daboya and qualified pineapple experts to help with the initial stages
of plantation development (Section 3.03(a)(ii) of the draft Credit Agreement);
signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between BNDA (acting on behalf of the
Government) and Daboya; and signing of a contract between Daboya and Fruitex
for collection, transport, and marketing of Daboya's and outgrowers' produce
(Section 4.07 of the draft Credit Agreement). A condition of disbursement
of funds for Fruitex's transport service would be the appointment of a work-
shop manager.
49.        The features of the Draft Credit Agreement of special interest are
described in paragraphs 32, 34, 35, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42 and 43 of this report.
50.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
B. Chadenet
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 16, 1975






ANNEX I
Page 1
OlUb7RT DATA - GlJiWf
ARIA                                               POPULATIONENSY
25,957    la2 521                                             ilion (mid-1972)                               Per inSet cable lnd
SOCIAL DIDICATORS
Ref'ercen Countries
Ouane,                    Zaire       Xonra   Thgoalavia*
I56C0        197D             9;0           59C          9
ON? FMlt CAPITA US$ (TLArS BasIs)                                  -             90              100          170           8 710 /a
M3WtiGFtP     ate (Pan thcand)                                  62 b.c          7 d aht             d        I8 62        8
Grade death rate (par thoea.nd)                                 Lo 72                               d
Infant  ortality rate (per thousand live births)               156            .,                             55            13 '
Life sapent-ny at birth (years)                                 27   b         39                lL    Li      L h8 A      (f9 5f
Ores. r-production rate L2                                                    3.1 j            2.8 d         3.h          i.3
Ppaatian groetb rate                                           6.e            2.8 3            2.6 '           2          1.0 $
5'opal.attuv growth rett - urban                               ..             .                  5             72           3 1
Age ninictorn (peronan)
15-61                                                         :'94T          SLha            SILL          l. 5  LI
65 and over                                                    7              3                3            L             fl
Age dependency ratio /L                                         1 I           0o.              0.5          1.   /         . 0.7
Scooon;Cdeprocrooy rIleM /n                                    1.0            l l                            .            0 l h.
Urban populatlon an pennant of total               e                   p, .                     21 I.       S   h o        35 L
Family pIanning:  No at acceptors catnalatlve (thou.                           .
No. of asor  (% of sarriad   n)
Tot41 labor force (thousands)                                 1,64 /n       1 9C0 /n         7.9C0        SiOC &,r      e,900 Le
Percentage seploynd in ngricaltore        e          e                       8h       h       78           90 &,r         L S n
Percentage anemploynd                                         .             ..               ....is                          ;
C__012 GIS.RIB1UTION
eroont of national incoa. received by b0ioret 55                                                             .             l
Percent of nationia tono"en received by highoet 20%             .2 .-.
Percent of national inco=e received by lowst 20%                                                                            7 Yu.
Percent of netianai onsa- r-ceived by leeat 10.                                                                            19
MISTRIEUTIDN OF LAND OSCRINIP
owned by top `    ot c  cereera
9  n,ead by gemiest 10% of ownaes.
WALTh A0i5 NULilTIoN
Popu4tton per physician                                                    h9,7h0 /o        30,00        7,830 0S      1,010
Populatin per nuring person                                     .           2,10 7           2,290        1,670 Z         i10
Popu.ation par hospital bad                                   1,120 L         820 ^            320           770          te0
Par capita calorie supply as S of requireente 8 88                            ea               92           101          12h
Per capita protein nopply, tot-l (grn-e per dy4X   6            65 7           (                33            71           92
Of rhich, animal and Po1ise                                                   9 Lb            16            7 292
Death rate I-h yearn /7 /9                                                                      1                           a2
fl3d     /8 P prinary school enrllenat ratio                     20            33              tlS ELA        67           96
Adjuted L   secondary school enrolijeant ratio                    2            13               11                          5 9 X  65
Teara of achonliap peovided, first and   eonad level             1.            12               12            13           12
Voneticotl enrollment an 9 of sn.  echnal enrnollnnt             27             5               lh Ic          2           72
Adult literacy rate S                                                                           13 7;c ad     30 /n.ec      5  ed
ICUSSin
Average No. of perene per race (urban)                                                                .                   1.3 a
Peefena of onnupied -rot, otht   t piped Mater                                                                             4S6.4..66
Access to eloetricity (a. S o! total population)               2.                                2 /0.                     8ea
Prcent o ftaal popoion-_      -onnocted to eleetrinity                                                                     eo......0
Itia eiv remolvers per 1000 population                           13            2h L4a                         h8 /a       171 /a
Pesenger acre per 1000 popation                                   2             2              16 h8
Rlectric pewer   ormptlor (kbe p.c.)                              ,           1                16             78 9      1,570
Enenprint -onau-ptlce p.c. kg per Y..                                                         O C2 c         O S          t.   a 
Notie, Figren rfer either to thc latent periods or to                account of environeienti temperature, body  eite-T -, -nd
thr lateat yen,. latest periods raIdr in prtincipI to                dietribotion by age  nd     of national popolatian.
the  eaXe 5956-60 or 1966-70; tbm latest years in prO-          /6  Protein standarda (reqoirmeets) for all1 Coontries ao Sseab-
niple to 1960 snd 1970.                                              lnhd by    SDA Enoeneio Raearoh Servce provid.e fur a otnimn-
a The Per Cepita GNP metimate in at nackot p,,no- foe              aiteanca af 60 gras   of total protein per day, ara 2G pans nf
Years othtr than 19i0,oac.u-ated by the ae    onoversion         aiml an-d pua    pratein, of  hich 10 gram ahold be anima
techalqan as the 1972 World Bank, At2an.                        protein.   These standards a,re veemhat lauter theao those of 28
2 Average anuber of daughters per unman of reprodacti-               grua   r totai protein and 23 gras of animal protein Be an
ee                                                  veoaveragp for the world, propnsd by F70 in the Third iorld Fend
a   Population  nrorth ratie are for the ded.     n ding in          Suany.
1960 and 1970.                                               /7 Seem atdies horo aggeeted that aIde death rates of ohiloren
Ratlo o populetiun noder 15 and 65 and over an pprJ--               ae. 1 throagh 4 nay be s. d an a first appro-tention tnlex of
tice of agea 15-61 Car age dependency ratio and to latior         ir.ttriti on.
tforc  of age   15-6h for ec-nerin dependeny retio.         /   Percentaeg  errotie  of -orreeonding oopoltiton of achmol age
a   FAG refarence standard. repreweat p*aeilogictl r                 as defid       each c  utry.
oulneatts for aorf     acti,ity -sd beIth, tking
A    1972;    Ab 1955;    /c  Dets entinates for ifrican population based on births and deaths dtring 12-iothe period,
rewllta of rmapie Buny;      /v .1965-70 UN setiate, i       1973;    Lf  1970-71;   /g   1960-72:    a  1958-72;
/    For definition of urban ee UN Daonanhtic learbook 1972 p. 153;             1962-69;    Lk  2,000  r more iohabitanta;
a    For definition of urban se.    hla    r    c yeroik 192      p  157;    a  1.965 UN meitnta;     d  UN enitnaste;    ?   1969;
L    U Urban centers;  iq 1959;      I labor foNa     age 1i-5y59;    1971;   L    Ratio of registared job seekere to entire
pepati-o;     a    1966;   a   HoasehldLj e;   v  Number oo tEa register, not all working In thn country;      i   Goveranret
hospitni eetbf      enteI; 1961;        Li  I.-o6;      (    Includee overage stndente;     lab  Ircluding toacher-treming
at third level;   /s     15 years ed over;      d  Dafiaition urnlkown;   Z"g   Fercentage of dwellings;    let  Water piped
Teugeslavi  ha.s ben selected ar  n cbjeoti-e country for Gianee inice it is more advanced 1; ito d-velopn6nt aid
h.a -oparblv nouto-envomin mine.
April 7, 1975



ANNEX I
Page 2
ECONOMIC IlNDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972-                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWI'H (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                      1966 -69          1969 -72         1973
GNP at Market Prices         452         100.0                       2.5               2.5            3.0
Gross Domestic Investment     92          20.3                       5.5                -             5.0
Gross National Saving         -18         -4.0                      17.5            negative
Current Account Balance     -110         -24.3
Exports of Goods, NFS         65          14.4                      -3.5               6.5           15.4
Imports of Goods, NFS        145          32.1                      -3.7              19.0            9.1
1,
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1972-
Value Added                 Labor Force                  V. A. Per Worker
US$K MLMln_M.                             %                  US$          %
Agriculture                   202.5     49.1
Industry                       76.9     18.6                ..
Services                      133.2     32.3                ..       ..
Unallocated
TOTAL/AVERAGE         412.6    100.0                        1000                  .         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                           Central Government
(US$ Mln.)        % of GDP                  UiS$ Mln.)        % of GDP
12           1972      19 -7                  1972      1972        19- 7
Current Receipts                 107.9         22.8         ..                  95.6      20.2
Current Expenditure               95.5         20.1         ..                  95.5      22.1
Current Surplus                  -12.4        -.                                 0.1      -1.9
Capital Expenditures              70.0-2       14.8
External Assistance (net)         77.0         16.2
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1969         1970       1971        1972        1973
(Billions  or  Sylis outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  5.96          6.51       6.84       6.89         7.03
Bank credit to Public Sector           7.29          7.73       8.80       8.62         9.14
Bank Credit to Private Sector          0.25          0.30       0.34       0.35         0.37
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP      65.5          67.8       67.1       63.8         56.7
General Price Index (1972 = 100)       91.9          94.1       97.1      100.0        106.9
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                     3.1          2.4         3.2        3.0         6.9
Bank credit to Public Sector            ..           6.0        13.8        2.0         6.0
Bank credit to Private Sector           .           20.0        13.0        3.0         6.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Factor costs
2/ Estimated average for 1971/73               .. not available
not applicable
e/ IBRD estimates



ANNEX I
Page 3
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS e/                                               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970-73)
1970     1971      1972                                               US $ Mln     %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          50.8      50.9     64.5            Mining (mainly aluminum &
Imports of Goods, NFS          89.9     79.7     145.1                               bauxite)           40.4    75.8
Resource Gap (deficit =- 
-39.1    -28.8     -80.6            Agriculture (mainly pineapple
v     \                                ~~~~~~~~     ~    ~~& coffee)  12.4  23.3
Interest Payments (net)     J       )                                                                   1
Workers' Remittances        ) -10.6 )   -10.9  )  -8.4
Other Factor Payments (net))
Net Transfers                 -13.4     -17.0    -21.0               All other commodities               0.5     0.9
Balance on Current Account    -63.1     -56.7   -110.0                    Total                         53.3   100,0
Private longterm capital (net) . .         .      58.0             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1972-/
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                ..        .       96.0                                                       US $ Mln
Amortization                 .                -19.0
Subtotal                     ..       ..       77.0               Public debt. incl. guaranteed             425
Capital Grants                   ..       ..       ,,                Non-guaranteed Private debt
Other Capital (net)             ..        ..      -9.0               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                 '                 a                                          I/
Increase in Reserves (+)         .        7.0     7.0              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 19721/
Gross Reserves (end year)        ..
Net Reserves    (end year)       ..       ..                         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                25
Fuel and Related Materials       .         .        .                Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports
of which:  Petroleum          .       *-        *                Debt service (including deferred
Exports                                                                                    payments)         60
of which:  Petroleum                  * *-               IBRD/IDA LENDING, ( iiavy l975 ) (Million US $):
Pre-October 1972                                                     IBRD        IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                  US$1.00 = GF227
Outstanding & Disbursed              69.5
October 1972-December 1973     Since  - secember 1973          Undisbursed
US $ 1.0O = Sylis 22.7         US$.O=         is 20.7          Outstanding incl. Undisbursed        69.5
Sylis = US $44.0           Sylis 1000 = US $48.4
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
e/ IBRD estimates
.  not available
. not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of May 31, 1975)
Loan or                                           US$ million
Credit                                  Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower    Purpose    Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
577 and
766
Two loans, both fully disbursed          73.5      -
Total
of which has been repaid           4.0
Total now outstanding               69.5
Amount sold
of which has been repaid            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA      69.5
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of May 31, 1975)
No IFC investments have been made in Guinea.
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
There are no projects financed by the Bank Group in execution.



ANNEX III
Page 1
GUINEA
PINEAPPLE DEVELOPMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Guinea
Beneficiary:              Daboya, the State pineapple producing company;
Fruitex, the State fruit exporting
company, and the Ministry of Rural
Development
Amount:                   US$7.0 million equivalent
Terms:                    Standard
Relending Terms:          US$3.1 million of the IDA credit for the estate
and outgrower components will be onlent by BNDA
on behalf of the Borrower to Daboya at not less
than six percent (6%) for 25 years including six
years grace for principal and interest.
Project Description:      (a)  construction of an irrigated pineapple
estate of about 420 ha (of which
not less than 360 ha are for the actual
cultivation of pineapple) to be managed
by Daboya;
(b) provision of a package of support
services to pineapple growers in
the area surrounding the estate;
(c) strengthening of Fruitex's road
and port transportation and fruit
handling system;
(d) implementation of a program of
applied research and trials for
pineapple production, transporta-
tion and marketing;
(e) furnishing Daboya and Fruitex with
specialists to carry out the initial
implementation of the project and
providing Guineans with overseas
training fellowships in irrigation,
pineapple marketing and vehicle
maintenance;



ANNEX III
Page 2
(f)  technical assistance to the Ministry of
Rural Development for studies of the rice
and livestock sub-sectors and the identifi-
cation and preparation of projects in these
sub-sectors.
Estimated Costs:                              US$ Thousand
(excluding taxes)             Local             Foreign            Total
Pineapple Estate               1,407             ;2,330             3,737
Outgrower Program                466                595             1,061
Transportation Improvements      161                549               710
Research and Training             82                195               277
Technical Assistance              39                289               328
Contingencies                    701              1,712             2,413
2,856              '5,670            8,526
Financing Plan:                IDA                7,000                82%
Government          1,346               16%
Farmers               180                2%
8,526               100%
Procurement Arrangements:
All contracts over US$50,000 for the procurement of
vehicles, farm and irrigation equipment, electrical
and mechanical plant, fertilizers and other farm
inputs, and packing materials (totalling about
US$2.8 million) would be through international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. Domestically manufactured goods would be
allowed a preference of 15%, or the level of
applicable import duty, whichever is lower when
comparing domestic bids with those of foreign
manufacturers. Procurement contracts for amounts
of less than US$50,000 would be through competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with
Government procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts
for the installation of the irrigation system, land
clearing and construction and rehabilitation of
buildings (totalling about US$1.2 million) would be



ANNEX III
Page 3
individually too small and too dispersed over time
(5 years) to attract international contractors and
would therefore be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
procedures to be agreed with IDA. Contracts with
consultants (about US$300,000) for the rice and
livestock studies, and those required under the
pineapple component of the project for technical
assistance, training of Guinean staff, and investi-
gation of new markets (totalling about US$600,000)
would be obtained under arrangements agreeable to
IDA, as would be internationally recruited staff
(about US$900,000). An estimated US$2.8 million.
would be expended on items such as local staff
salaries, labor, personnel allowances, operating
costs of vehicles and equipment and other general
expenditures that would not lend themselves to
competitive procurement. The foregoing estimated
amounts are net of physical and price contingencies
for which about US$2.5 million is provided. The
difference of US$2.6 million between the sum of the
procurement items and contingencies listed above,
US$11.1 million, and total expected project costs,
US$8.5 million, represents nucleus estate operating
costs in the IDA credit disbursement period which
would be financed by self-generated revenues, but
which, for convenience, Covernment has indicated
that it would procure in the same way as items
financed by IDA. To avoid delay in the implemen-
tation of the Project, the Government requested IDA
to make suitable arrangements, on financial terms
and conditions acceptable to Guinea, for the provision
of pineapple experts' services to assist Daboya in
the plantation development and for the recruitment
by IDA of Daboya's expatriate staff, such experts
and expatriate staff to be made available to Guinea
under Secondment Contracts from the Association.
Estimated Disbursements:
FY              1976    1977    1978     1979    1980
---- In US$ thousands ----------
Annual         1,000   2,170   1,050    1,760   1,020
Cumulative     1,000   3,170   4,220   5,980    7,000
Project Management:
(a) The pineapple production component of the
project will be administrated by Daboya;



ANNEX III
Page 4
(b) The transportation and marketing components
will be carried out by Fruitex;
(c) The technical assistance component would be
the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural
Development.
Consultancy Services:
An estimated 47 man-months are required for tech-
nical assistance in planning the rice and livestock
sub-sectors, and about 80 man-months in relation to
research, irrigation and the marketing and transport
studies.
Rate of Return:           18 percent.
Estimated Project
Completion Date:        December 31, 1980
Appraisal Report:         No. 697a-GUI



Friguiagbe                                 G   U  I N   E A
PINEAPPLE   DEVELOPMENT AND
Kt.                                          Ifole                                      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1?eservoir                                                                      PINEAPPLE ESTATE IRRIGATION              WORKS
- -Project boundary
lstr1rJ~5  phasre er
) >  >gj'2nd phase
13rd phase
Conduit thsrisers
-    90  /\KTemporary conduit
/A  Pumping stations
-Main roods
it                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tracks
Koliaabel                       -'~::~ Rivers
Seoungouri ''g          Bridges
O      500    0 ,00  1,50 ,  2,0,00 ,  2.500
METERS
50\    S     \        \ 0  1500 I,O CO 2,000  2,500
YARDS
>>     \\                                     119       !- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SENEGAL  s  ib, .^8mkor 
GUINEA 8ISSAU                    f    \   / |
v   \             \                                   11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~    ~~      ~    ~~~~~Brssalu  ,,."  r   'et
/~~~~~~~~~~~~
Daboya                        |-G                      U  I1N   E  A
Pn'app a
E tato2oKind,o              '  i0
Conokry\            ?            CdAST
The bo.nda-us  h.own  on th P map dOno |           /        ,,,.,
imply -nd--.mmeni1  bycpne   hy                        L    I  B E R I A'0
Wonid Book ond,.offihu-.       17                               ,,'  1.,r (nh



