7r47
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 569 GUI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Pineapple Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 2, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 569 GUI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Pineapple Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 2, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "BNDA" means "Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole", an
Etablissement public a' caract re industriel et commercial established and operating
pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 176/PRG dated June 2, 1961 including
any successor thereto;
(b)   "INRAF" means "Institut National de Recherches Agronomiques de
Foulaya" an instrumentality of the Borrower established and operating pursuant
to the Borrower's Decree No. 325/PRG dated September 4, 1961 including any
successor thereto;
(c)   "FRUITEX" means "Entreprise Nationale d'Exportation des Fruits",
an Entreprise d'Etat established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree
No. 198/PRG, dated April 26, 1971;
(d)   "DABOYA" means Entreprise Nationale Agricole de Daboya, an
Entreprise d'Etat established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree
No. 200/PRG, dated May 17, 175;
(e)   "Statutes" means the statutes of "DABOYA" as set forth in the
Borrower's Decree No. 200/PRG dated May 17, 1975, as such statutes may be
amended from time to time with the approval of the Association;


﻿4
(f)   "BGCE" means Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur, the
Foreign Trade Guinean Bank, established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No. 190/PRG, dated June 6, 1961;
(g)   "Syli" means the currency of the Borrower; and
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between BNDA and DABOYA pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1. to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October I commencing


﻿5
October 1, 1985, and ending April 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part G of the Project through
its Ministry of Rural Development, cause DABOYA to carry out Parts A, B, El
and F of the Project and cause FRUITEX to carry out Parts C, D, and E2 of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. Without limitation on the Borrower's obligations tinder Section
3.01 of this Agreement the Borrower shall:
(a)   cause BNDA to enter on behalf of the Borrower into a subsidiary
loan agreement with DABOYA, pursuant to which BNDA shall relend that portion
of the proceeds of the Credit required for the execution of Parts A and B of
the Project and provided for under Categories (1) and (2) of Schedule I to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified from time to time, for a period
of twenty-five years including six years' grace as to payment of principal and
interest, at an interest rate of not less than six per cent (6%) per annum and
under such other terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Association;
(b)   exercise its rights tinder the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)   make available, as and when needed, to DABOYA by way of grant
(i) that portion of the proceeds of the Credit required for the execution of Parts
El and F of the Project and for the consultants' and experts' services under Parts
A and B of the Project and provided for under Categories (6) and (5) of Schedule
I to this Agreement, together with the funds withdrawn tinder Category (7) of


﻿6
said Schedule 1 and (ii) such additional funds in Syli, out of its own resources,
as shall be necessary to cover the capital expenditures of DABOYA with respect
to the estate referred to in Part A of the Project for the fiscal years 1980-198 1
and 1981-1982 and the working capital requirements of DABOYA with respect
to said estate, as estimated by DABOYA;
(d)   make available, as and when needed, to FRUITEX by way of grant
that portion of the proceeds of the Credit required for the execution of Parts
C, D and E2 of the Project and provided for under Categories (3), (4), (5) and
(6) of Schedule I of this Agreement;
(e)   establish and maintain in BNDA, under arrangements satisfactory to
the Association, two special accounts in the names of DABOYA and the Transport
Service of FRUITEX, respectively, for the purposes of the Project,
(f)   make for each quarter and in advance of each such quarter adequate
arrangements to: (i) enable DABOYA and FRUITEX to make withdrawals from
their respective accounts with BNDA in such amounts as shall be required to enable
DABOYA and FRUITEX to meet their local expenditures as estimated for the
purpose of the Project in their quarterly budgets: and (ii) cause BGCE to make
available to DABOYA and FRUITEX their foreign exchange requirements for such
quarter.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist DABOYA in the carrying out of Parts
A and B of the Project, including the preparation of plans, specifications and bidding
documents, the Borrower shall (i) employ or cause DABOYA to employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association and (ii) cause DABOYA to enter into
arrangements to be oii terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association with
experienced and qualified pineapple experts acceptable to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist FRUITEX in carrying out Part D of the Project
and unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall employ or cause FRUITEX to employ consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   In order to assist its Ministry of Rural Development in carrying out
Part G of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes that it shall take all such steps as
may be required to ensure that import licences will be issued within thirty days


﻿7
of any application by DABOYA or FRUITEX for all items which may be required
for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights iii respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the provisions
of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section the Borrower shall for the purpose
of Part A of the Project take all such action as may be required to vest, under
arrangements acceptable to the Association, in DABOYA and thereafter to maintain


﻿8
on behalf of DABOYA, rights of usage of an estate with an area adequate to
permit to cultivate not less than 360 hectares of pineapples annually, the site of
such estate to be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower undertakes that:
(a)   In order to assist DABOYA and INRAF in carrying out the applied
research program on pineapples referred to in Part F of the Project, it shall cause
INRAF to enter, not later than December 31, 1975 or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Association, into arrangements to be on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association with experienced and qualified pineapple research
experts acceptable to the Association;
(b)   not later than March 31, 1976 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association, it shall submit to the Association an outline, acceptable to
the Association, on the research program referred to in paragraph (a) of this section
and on the delineation of research responsibility between INRAF and DABOYA
for carrying out such program.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause DABOYA (a) to employ a General
Director, an estate manager and an estate engineer whose qualifications and
experience shall be acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and (b) to employ not later than December 31,
1975 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association (i) a deputy estate
manager, an accounant and a research extension officer whose qualifications and
experience shall be acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and (ii) a deputy research extension officer and
a deputy estate engineer.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause FRUITEX to employ not later than
December 31, 1975 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association
a workshop manager and a deputy workshop manager whose qualifications and
experience shall be acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.0 1. (a) The Borrower shall cause (i) DABOYA to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition and (ii) FRUITEX to maintain


﻿9
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition of its Transport
Service, such accounts to be audited, for each fiscal year, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(b)   The Borrower shall cause DABOYA to: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year. (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of DABOYA and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause DABOYA and FRUITEX to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower undertakes that not later than June 30, 1976,
or such other date as the Association may agree, it shall complete a broad
development plan for its fresh fruit sector for the period ending December 31,
1980 and shall have afforded the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views on said plan.
Section 4.04. (a) Not later than June 30, 1976. or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Association, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for
its approval (i) the prices to be paid by outgrowers to DABOYA for inputs and
services provided by DABOYA and (ii) the mechanism to be used for subsequent
revisions of such prices:
(b)   The Borrower siall cause BNDA to make available to outgrowers
registered with BNDA, as and when needed, seasonal credits under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association, including, inter alia, interest at the rate
of nine per cent (9%) per annum.
Section 4.05. The Borrower undertakes that it shall submit to the Association
not later than three months before the start of each fiscal year (or such other


﻿10
date as the Association may agree): (i) a schedule of all import licenses which
may be needed during such fiscal year; and (ii) the budgets of DABOYA and of
FRUITEX . Transport Service, as approved by the Borrower's Ministries of
Agriculture and Foreign Trade respectively.
Section 4.06. Not later than June 30, 1976, or such other date as the
Association may agree, the Borrower shall (a) submit to the Association for its
approval the procedures for establishing prices to be paid by FRUITEX to DABOYA
and outgrowers for pineapple; (b) consult with the Association on the prices to
be paid by FRUITEX to DABOYA and said outgrowers for pineapple to be
produced during the 1977-1978 season and afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to express its views on such prices; and (c) submit to the Association
for its approval the mechanism to be used for subsequent revisions of pineapple
prices to be paid by FRUITEX to DABOYA and outgrowers.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause DABOYA to enter with FRUITEX
into a contract, satisfactory to the Association, pursuant to which FRUITEX shall
undertake to promptly collect, transport and market abroad pineapples produced
by DABOYA and outgrowers.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   DABOYA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   The Statutes have been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived
without the prior approval of the Association- and
(c)   a change has been made in the Borrower's Decree No. 198/PRG
establishing FRUITEX which materially and adversely affects the carrying out or
operation of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof,
namely, that any events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   DABOYA's General Director and its estate manager referred to in
Section 3.09(a) of this Agreement have been employed by DABOYA;
(b)   DABOYA has entered into arrangements acceptable to the Association
with pineapple experts as provided in Section 3.03(a)(ii) of this Agreement;
(c)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of BNDA, acting as the Borrower's agent, and DABOYA, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
and
(d)   DABOYA and FRUITEX have entered into the contract referred to
in Section 4.07 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duli authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, BNDA and DABOYA, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
DABOYA in accordance wi' its terms.
Section 6.03. The da   September 30, 1975, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 o. the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 through
4.05 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.01 of this Agreement and
those of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre du Domaine du Developpement Rural of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿12
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Domaine du Developpement Rural
Conakry, Guinea
Cable address:                         Telex:
MIDORAL                                638
Conakry, Guinea
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Habib Bah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Xavier de la Renaudi6re
Director
Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Civil works includ-           1,000,00             80%
ing land clearing
and development
costs under Parts A,
B and F of the Proj-
ect
(2)   Vehicles, tractors,           2,000,000
spare parts,
irrigation equip-
ment, packing ma-
terials, fertilizers
and other farm in-
puts required
under Parts A,
B and F of the
Project
(i)   directly im-                                 100% of foreign
ported                                       expenditures
(ii)  locally pro-                                 90% of local
cured                                        expenditures
(3)   Civil works under               200,000            80%
Part C of
the Project


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4)   Vehicles, workshop              400,000
equipment, loading
equipment, con-
tainers and spare
parts under Part
C of the Project
(i)   directly im-                                 100% of foreign
ported                                       expenditures
(ii)  locally pro-                                 90% of local
cured                                        expenditures
(5)   Consultants' and                700,000            1007 of foreign
experts' services                                  expenditures
under Parts A, B,
D, F and G of the
Project
(6)   Overseas training               100,000            100% of foreign
fellowships under                                  expenditures
Part E of the
Project
(7)   Salaries and allow-             600,000            100%
ances, net of taxes,
of DABOYA's interna-
tionally recruited
staff
(8)   Unallocated                   2.000,000
TOTAL         7,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower, and the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower and for goods and services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.


﻿15
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made:
(a)   in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (2), (5) and (7) of the
table set out under paragraph I of this Schedule on account of expenditures
incurred after June 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000;
(b)   in respect of expenditures for goods and services under Category (4)
until the workshop manager referred to in Section 3.10 of this Agreement has
been employed as provided under Section 3.10 of this Agreement; and
(c)   in respect of expenditures for the loading equipment under Category
(4) until the specifications of such equipment have been approved by the
Association.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting


﻿16
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to improve its fresh pineapple
export industry and its rice growing and livestock production sectors.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:     Establishment at Daboya of an irrigated nucleus pineapple plantation
with an area adequate to permit to cultivate not less than 360 hectares
of pineapple annually;
Part B:     providing pineapple growers in the Kindia area in the Borrower's
territory with support services, including extension personnel and farm
inputs, required to permit them to maximize their productivity;
Part C:     1. purchase and utilization by FRUIJTEX of new vehicles and spare
parts required to increase FRUITEX's road transportation and fruit
handling capacity; 2. construction and equipping of a vehicle workshop,
storage facilities and office buildings; 3. purchase and installation of
specialized equipment to load pineapples at the Port of Conakry; and
4. purchase and utilization of autorefrigerated containers for the
purpose of Part D of the Project;
Part D:     1. conducting trials and studies of internal and external methods of
transporting fresh pineapples, including trial shipments of pineapples
to new markets, especially to Western European countries; 2. the
carrying out of a study to review FRUITEX's transport organization,
to  assess its operating  and  pricing  procedures and   to  make
recommendations for their improvement;
Part E:     a program  to provide Guineans with overseas training fellowships 1.
in irrigation and 2. in pineapple marketing and vehicle maintenance:
Part F:     field trials with pineapples in which recent experience gained abroad
would be tested under Guinean conditions; and
Part G:     livestock and rice studies and preparation of livestock and rice
development programs and projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Identical or similar items of material and equipment shall, to the extent
possible, be consolidated in a single invitation for the purpose of bidding.
3.    Contracts for vehicles, farm and irrigation equipment, containers, electrical
and mechanical plant equipment, packing material, fertilizers and other farm inputs
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000 and contracts for civil works
for the installation of the irrigation system and land clearing and for the
construction and rehabilitation of buildings may be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
B.    Evaluation and ComParison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:


﻿19
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Guinea if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Guinea equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Guinea.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15'" of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for vehicles, packing materials, farm and
irrigation equipment, containers, electrical and mechanical plant equipment,
fertilizers and other farm inputs estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further


﻿20
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract irld the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.03(a) of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract.
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


