Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14637
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3139-MA)
JUNE 19, 1995
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency         Ringgit (MYR)
Appraisal Year (1989) Average          :          US$1.00 - MYR 2.70
Intervening Years Average              :          US$1.00 = MYR 2.73
Completion Year (1992) Average         :          US$1.00 - MYR 2.55
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ESPER       Estet Pekebun Kecil Sdn. Bhd.
LITS        Low-Intensity Tapping Systems
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         Management Information System
NARSCO      National Rubber Smallholders
Cooperative
RISDA       Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority



FOR OFFlCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 19, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Malaysia
Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA) Project
(Loan 3139-MA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Malaysia-Rubber Industry
Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA) project (Loan 3139-MA, approved in FY90),
prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
Most components were successfully implemented, including several institutional
improvements to RISDA and the targeted replanting of smallholder rubber lands. The
sustainability of this agricultural development and institution building project may, however, be
prejudiced by increasing real labor costs and the projected decrease in the world price for rubber.
Introduction of the low intensity tapping system (LITS) supported by the Bank under a follow-on
project (RISDA II, approved in FY95) is expected to overcome this problem. The instability of
RISDA's top management slowed the process of institutional strengthening within RISDA. Yet,
the stability and regularity of Bank supervision enabled a strong working relationship and trust to
be built between the Bank and the borrower. The planned institutional improvements were,
therefore, eventually achieved. In particular, good progress was made with the training of female
extension staff and farmers. The project outcome is rated as satisfactory and the benefits are
likely to be sustainable. Institutional development is rated as substantial.
The Project Completion Report provides an accurate account of the project. The report
should have elaborated on whether the quality of extension advice for farmers had improved
following the provision of special training in communication skills to extension agents, and the
removal of non-technical advice functions, such as loan recoveries, from agents' duties.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3139-MA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   . .
Evaluation Summary ............... . .                                                iii
PART I.      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2.    Background       .......I. .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
3.    Projected Objectives and Description            . . . . . . . . . .            2
4.    Project Design and Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   3
5.    Project Implementation         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               4
6.    Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   7
7.    Project Sustainability         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              11
8.    Bank Peformance    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  11
9.    Borrower Performance         ...................................              12
10.   Project Relationships    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  12
11.   Consulting Services    ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
12.   Project Documentation and Data           . . . . . . . . . . . . .            13
PART II.      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Borrower's Performance & Lessons Learned             . . . . . . . .          14
B.    Relationship Between The Bank & Borrower             . . . . . . . .          15
PART III.    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans        .....................................               16
2.    Project Timetable    ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
3.    Loan Disbursements        .....................................               18
4.    Project Implementation         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              20
5.    Project Cost and Financing          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             22
6.    Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  24
7.    Status of Covenants    ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  27
8.    Use of Bank Resources    ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  29
ANNEX 1
Table 1:  Yield Profile for Rubber    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   31
Table 2:  Yield Profile for Oil Palm    . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   32
ANNEX 2    Economic Costs and Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    33
MAP          IBRD 25169R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3139-MA)
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews implementation of the
Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA) Project in
Malaysia, for which Loan 3139-MA in the amount of US$71.0 million was approved
on December 12, 1989. The Loan was fully disbursed on August 17, 1993, ahead
of the closing date of December 31, 1993.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Country Department
1, East Asia and Pacific Region, based, inter alia, on the findings of a PCR
mission in May 1994; the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 8029-MA) dated November
16, 1989; the Loan and Project Agreements dated January 11, 1990; Bank
supervision reports and project files; field visits to project sites; and
discussions with the Borrower.
The Bank wishes to thank the management and staff of RISDA for
their cooperation and assistance in preparing this PCR.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3139-MA)
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
1.       The three-year (1990-92) time-slice operation was to help increase
the productivity and incomes of about 104,000 rubber smallholders, who
constituted Malaysia's biggest poverty group, by supporting RISDA's
agricultural development program and institutional strengthening. The
agricultural program included: (i) replanting of 101,500 ha of old rubber with
rubber, oil palm and other crops; maintenance during immaturity of this area
and an additional 106,100 ha replanted prior to the project; rehabilitation of
7,500 ha; agricultural inputs, mainly for crop areas already in production;
and supplemental support for mini-estates; (ii) construction and maintenance
of about 300 km of agricultural access roads; and (iii) extension and
smallholder training. Institutional strengthening was to be achieved through:
(a) provision of management facilities and vehicles, including equipment for
computerizing RISDA's management information system (MIS); (b) expanded staff
training; and (c) studies.
Implementation Experience
2.       Project implementation was generally satisfactory and was completed
within the envisaged three years, except for monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
arrangements and self-financing of cooperatives. The physical targets for both
of the project's main components, viz. replanting and crop maintenance, were
exceeded at project completion. The replanting achievement was 101,650 ha and
an additional 108,310 ha were provided maintenance support during immaturity.
3.       Two significant improvements in the agricultural program were as
follows: (a) to address the issues raised during project preparation regarding
the viability of many existing mini-estates, the Government and RISDA decided
to de-emphasise the establishment of new mini-estates; and (b) RISDA started
to record the number of staff and smallholder trainees by gender and increased
the proportion of women worker and smallholder trainees from 19% of the total
trainees in 1989 to about 32% by the end of the project in 1992.
4.       Several institutional improvements occurred during preparation and
implementation of the project: (a) RISDA's commercial functions (processing
and marketing) were divested; (b) the reorganization of RISDA included
streamlining of the headquarters structure, with merger of several units and
divisions; abolition of the Regional level in the field structure; and
establishment and strengthening of 60 new Responsibility Centers to provide
more cost-effective services to smallholders; (c) a major achievement was the
initiation of a computerized MIS with the installation of the mainframe
computer in May 1992 and the purchase of about 420 personal computers. Many



iv
computerized modules have been developed by RISDA staff so far and further
development is continuing. Although the M&E module is delayed, one of the
replanting modules already developed is expected to generate the essential M&E
information in 1995; (d) RISDA's training facilities were considerably
improved and a comprehensive local and overseas training program for staff was
completed; (e) technical assistance (about 54 person-months) helped improve
communication skills of the extension staff and strengthen training
management; (f) four important studies relating to an M&E system for RISDA,
increasing mini-estate efficiency, strengthening cooperatives, and improving
nurseries, were completed and provided data and analysis for further
institutional improvement; and (g) the monitoring of the performance of RISDA
cooperatives improved significantly. However, of the 64 cooperatives expected
to become self-financing by the end of the project, only 36 managed to do so.
The process of cooperative development turned out to be more complicated than
was expected at appraisal.
5.       At completion, project costs were estimated at M$576.3 million
(US$217.5 million), about 5% higher in dollar terms than the appraisal
estimate of M$558.1 million (US$206.7 million). The increase was due mainly to
the higher proportion of replanting with rubber (82% compared to 60% expected
at appraisal), for which grant rates are the highest among crops. The Bank
loan of US$71 million was fully disbursed on August 17, 1993, ahead of the
closing date of December 31, 1993.
Prolect Results
6.       Overall, the project was satisfactory and mostly achieved its
agricultural and insiitutional objectives, which were necessarily limited,
given the three-year time frame of the project. Smallholder lands were
replanted with modern varieties of rubber and other crops, which have high
yield potential. About 58,925 smallholders benefitted from replanting under
the project and an additional 63,700 from crop maintenance. The total was thus
18% higher than the appraisal expectation (104,000). The actual production
benefits are negligible at this stage since the replanted areas are still
immature. However, projected yields (peak yields of 1.5-1.7 tons/ha for rubber
and 18-20 tons of ffb/ha for oil palm) are the same as expected at appraisal.
7.       The project's impact on RISDA as an institution can be considered
significant (para. 4). With the divestiture of commercial functions, the major
impact was a sharper focus on RISDA's developmental role for rubber and
emphasis on more cost-effective policies and programs, compared to the earlier
situation when RISDA's attention was diffused over a variety of developmental,
commercial and social activities. The institutional change is evident in
several ways: the improved data base is increasingly being used for decision-
making and better monitoring of RISDA's programs; emphasis has shifted from
development of new mini-estates to more efficient management of existing mini-
estates, including transfer to subsidiaries and cooperatives, introduction of
labor-saving technologies, and increased tapper training; an action plan for
strengthening and rationalization of cooperatives has been formulated; a plan
to improve the quality of planting materials being produced on RISDA-
controlled nurseries has been prepared; and the extension program has been
reoriented and is clear in its emphasis on reducing labor cost and improving
productivity of mature rubber, technologies to be transferred, extension
methods to be used and target numbers to be reached. All the above new
programs are being supported under the follow-on RISDA II project (Ln. 3699-



v
MA, approved in January 1994). With the development of the computerized MIS
modules, RISDA is now close to having an M&E system which will for the first
time generate data inter alia on the qualitative impact of RISDA's
agricultural programs. RISDA's institutional climate would have been even
better if there had been top management stability. Unfortunately, RISDA had
four different top managements over a span of five years. This resulted in
several (temporary) policy reversals and the consequent low staff morale.
8.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project, based on
replantings only (that is, excluding prior plantings maintained under the
project), as was done at appraisal, is estimated at 11%, which is satisfactory
but lower than the appraisal estimate of 14% due to higher labor costs and
less favorable commodity price projections. The ERR is estimated on the basis
of the current alternate day tapping for rubber. If low-intensity tapping
systems (LITS), which can reduce the tapper requirement by one-third to one-
half, are assumed, the ERR would be several percentage points higher.
Proiect Sustainability
9.       Project sustainability is likely. Financially, the well-established
rubber cess/grant system in Malaysia, whereby rubber smallholders pay
replanting cesses on rubber exports and receive grants for replanting, results
in full cost recovery over the life of the trees and ensures financing of a
certain level of replanting and maintenance every year. In addition, the
Government has been committed to provide budgetary allocations for a higher
level of replanting than would be possible with the current cess collections
and grant rates. Institutionally, RISDA is a well-established and mature
agency with reasonable level of funding available for its development and
recurrent budgets. Economically, the adoption of LITS would be necessary in
the long term for the viability of rubber in Malaysia. LITS is a major
component of RISDA II project (Ln. 3699-MA).
Findings and Lessons Learned
10.       The main lessons are the following:
(a) intensive support is needed for difficult institutional changes,
such as the improvement of mini-estate management and development of
computerized MIS (PCR, paras. 5.5, 6.6 and 8.2);
(b) given institutional commitment, gender-specific interventions and
data base can be developed fairly quickly (PCR, para. 5.8);
(c) a well-conceived and implemented staff training program contributes
to operational effectiveness (PCR, para. 5.10);
(d) a stable top management and consistency of policies are vital to
institutional effectiveness and staff morale (PCR, paras. 6.7 and
9.1);
(e) development of cooperatives is a complicated process and needs
focussed attention (PCR, para. 6.9); and
(f) Bank staff continuity during the different stages of the project
cycle greatly helps project implementation (PCR, para. 8.3).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
(LOAN 3139-MA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Project Identity
Name:          Rubber Industry Smallholders Devlopment Authority
(RISDA) Project
Loan Number:   Ln. 3139-MA
RVP Unit:       East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country:       Malaysia
Sector:        Agriculture
Sub-sector:    Tree Crops
2.        Background
2.1       Malaysia's agricultural sector continues to play a key role in the
economy, although its relative importance is naturally declining as the country
proceeds towards industrialization. In 1992, agriculture's share of CDP was 15%,
down from 24% in 1980. However, the sector still employs 25% of the workforce
and contributes 10% to direct export income, while also providing raw materials
to other export industries. About one-third of Peninsular Malaysia and 5Z of
East Malaysia (5 million ha) are under cultivation, with the remaining area under
forest or scrub regrowth. About 86% of the cultivated area is planted with tree
crops, mainly rubber and oil palm. About 1.8 m ha were estimated to be under
rubber in 1992. Rubber's share of cropped area has thus declined from 66Z in
1960 to about 36% in 1992. Oil palm has overtaken rubber as the largest crop
because of its greater profitability in the last two decades and relative ease
of management (although its price prospects are now much less attractive than for
rubber).
2.2       Malaysia's  climate and soil conditions provide a strong natural
comparative advantage for tree crops.  The country has long been the world's
largest producer and exporter of oil palm, and, until recently, of rubber, and
is one of the major producers of cocoa. In 1992, Malaysia provided 1.22 million
tons of the world output of 5.2 million tons of rubber and 6.4 million tons of
the total world output of 12.5 million tons of palm oil. Malaysia remains the
industry leader for palm oil in terms of area, yields, production, technology and
downstream processing.   For rubber, this position has changed over the past



decade, as decreasing world prices and increasing real labor costs have begun to
erode relative profitability. Although Malaysian rubber production has been on
a gradual long-term decline, high prices in some years evoke a strong output and
a resurgence of interest in replanting.   Far from being a sunset industry,
indications are that a firming of long run prices, improvements in production and
processing technology, and maintenance of high and consistent quality will ensure
that Malaysia remains a major force in the world rubber market.
2.3       Over the past 25 years, there has been a significant change in the
relative importance of the large private rubber estate sector vis-a-vis rubber
smallholders. The estates' contribution to national rubber production fell from
about 60% in 1965 to about 29% in 1992, while the contribution of the rubber
smallholder sector increased from 40% to about 71Z over the same period. The
rubber smallholder sector is defined to include all holdings up to 40 ha.
However, about 61% of smallholders applying to RISDA for replanting grants have
farms of less than 2 ha, with the majority having holdings of less than 1.2 ha,
and own 34Z of total land devoted to smallholder rubber; 29% have farms between
2 and 4 ha and own 37Z of total land; and only 10% have farms over 4 ha and own
29% of total land. The total number of smallholder households which derive their
living primarily from rubber is 155,000, thus making rubber smallholders the
largest group in agriculture. They are also the biggest poverty group in the
country, accounting for about one-third of the rural poor, and with an incidence
of poverty of 42%. Since its establishment in 1972, RISDA has been responsible
for raising rubber smallholders productivity and incomes through grant assistance
in replanting old rubber with any of 19 eligible crops.
3.        Project Objectives and Description
3.1       The three year (1990-92) time-slice operation was to help increase the
productivity and incomes of about 104,000 rubber smallholders by supporting
RISDA's development program and institutional strengthening as follows:
(a) agricultural development: (i) replanting of smallholder rubber,
early maintenance of planted crops, crop rehabilitation,
agricultural inputs, mainly for crops in production, and
supplemental support for mini-estates; (ii) construction and
maintenance of agricultural access roads; and (iii) improved
agricultural extension services and smallholder training; and
(b)  institutional development:(i) provision of management facilities
and vehicles, including office technology equipment to help
computerize RISDA's management information system (MIS); (ii)
expanded staff training; and (iii) studies.
3.2       The project covered the entire peninsular Malaysia, except for areas
receiving other external financing, namely the Second Western Johor Agricultural
Development Project (Loan 2740-MA), and the ADB-financed Terengganu Smallholder
Development and Perlis Agricultural Development Projects.



-3 -
3.3      AMricultural Development. The project's main component was replanting
of 31,830 ha in 1990, 33,390 ha in 1991, and 36,240 ha in 1992. These targets
excluded replantings under other externally-funded projects.   Including the
latter, RISDA's national replanting target was 38,500 ha in 1990 and 40,000 ha
each in 1991 and 1992. These targets were considered feasible on the basis of
demand for replanting from farmers as well as RISDA's implementation capacity.
The crop ratio in replanting was expected to be approximately 6:3:1 of rubber,
oil palm and other crops, although crop choice was to be the prerogative of the
replanters, except in cases where such choices were agroclimatically unsuitable,
and RISDA was to recommend alternative choices in these cases.
3.4       The other main component was crop maintenance during immaturity of all
existing smallholder replant areas (excluding cocoa) on which grant installments
were to be paid during the project period. The area under maintenance in
successive years of the project was expected to range from 106,100 ha to
129,300 ha.
4.        Project Design and Organization
4.1       Although by 1988 the Bank had financed RISDA components under four
area agricultural development projects coordinated by other government agencies
(Part III, Section 1), it had not financed a free-standing RISDA project. At that
time, it was realized by the Government that RISDA's growing involvement over
time in multiple developmental, commercial and social activities had not been
accompanied by appropriate organizational changes and staff training, and this
had resulted in considerable institutional stresses. RISDA's main organizational
problems included: (a) excessive centralization at the level of the Director
General (DG), with 15 senior staff reporting to him directly, and a lack of a
clear functioning line of command from the Head Office to the field level; (b)
lack of coordination and inconsistency of policies, arising mainly due to
placement of functionally- related Divisions under different lines of command;
(c) a cumbersome and duplicative field organization; (d) involvement of the
extension staff in a wide range of activities thereby reducing their technical
effectiveness; (e) reduced overall effectiveness due to RISDA's involvement in
commercial as well as developmental and social activities; (f) lack of manpower
planning; (g) inadequate controls arising from deficient operating procedures;
and (h) inadequate policy direction and performance monitoring of RISDA's own
programs and those of its subsidiaries. These institutional issues were to be
addressed by the project.
4.2       On its own, the Government had been analyzing RISDA's institutional
situation for some time.  The Public Services Department (PSD), which was and is
responsible for reorganization of Government ministries and agencies, conducted
a  study  of RISDA  in  1988  and made  reorganization  recommendations.    The
institutional analysis of RISDA was further developed by the Bank during
preparation and appraisal of the project.   In March 1989,  the Government
established a Task Force for the Re-evaluation of Functions and Organization of
RISDA. The Task Force submitted its report in late 1989.



4.3       The thrust of the Task Force's recommendations and project preparation
documents on reorganization of RISDA was to redirect the agency's efforts towards
activities primarily relating to rubber replanting and extension. RISDA was no
longer to be involved in implementation of unrelated social and economic
activities, but only in identifying the needs and facilitating work by other
Government  (or non-Government)  agencies  responsible  for those areas.   In
addition, actions were to be taken to divest RISDA of some activities, strengthen
its capabilities in specific areas, and institute a monitoring mechanism to
assess its effectiveness over time. Even before the project start-up, the
Government started the process of reorganizing RISDA, beginning with a change in
RISDA's top management in May 1989.
4.4       Thus,  although  the  project  design,  based  on  RISDA's  ongoing
development program, was simple, the institutional improvement component was
significant and several organizational changes were introduced before and during
project implementation (paras. 6.5-6.9). The risks associated with institutional
reform were clearly recognized in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, para. 6.8) and
a step-by-step approach was adopted. Given the three-year time horizon of the
project, which was requested by the Government to minimize loan commitment
charges, not all required institutional changes were attempted. Instead, studies
were included ( para. 5.11) which were to lay the basis for subsequent actions.
This approach proved to be appropriate (para 6.5).
5.        Prolect Implementation
5.1       Implementation was generally satisfactory and was completed within the
envisaged three years, except for self-financing of cooperatives (para. 6.9) and
monitoring and evaluation arrangements (para. 8.2).
Agricultural Development
5.2       Replanting and Maintenance.   Both replanting and crop maintenance
targets were exceeded at project completion. The replanting ha was 101,650 ha,
compared to the appraisal target of 101,500 ha. The proportion of area replanted
with rubber was about 82Z, much higher than the 60 Z expected at appraisal. This
was mainly due to the significant decline in world palm oil and cocoa prices,
which reduced the attractiveness of these crops to smallholders. Moreover, RISDA
made a policy decision to allocate greater resources to the poorer northern
areas, which mainly grow rubber, compared to States like Johor, which mainly grow
oil palm. An additional area of 108,310 ha received maintenance support (second
and subsequent grant installments) during immaturity, compared to 106,100 ha
estimated at appraisal.
5.3       Rehabilitation.  The areas in need of rehabilitation turned out to be
less than expected at appraisal. Over 1990-92, about 5,000 ha were rehabilitated,
compared to 7,500 ha expected at appraisal. Rehabilitation assistance was for
failed replantings or those with unsatisfactory field conditions due to events
outside the control of farmers (e.g. natural disasters like fire, flood, wind



damage, etc.), and for which grant payments were deferred within the first two
years after replanting, provided the cost of assisted rehabilitation did not
exceed the amount of grant paid up to the time of deferment.
5.4       Agricultural Inputs Program. The project was to provide fertilizers,
latex stimulants and chemicals/weedicides for mature replanted rubber as a means
to boost its productivity, and seeds and planting materials for cover crops and
cash crops in areas being replanted. Fertilizers were to account for about 70%
of the program allocation and to cover  about  60,000 ha/yr.    The actual
achievement for fertilizers averaged about 55,000 ha/yr.
5.5       Supplementary Development Costs of Mini-Estates. About 6,000 ha of new
mini-estates and a yearly average of 18,000 ha of existing mini-estates were to
be supported under the project. The development costs were to be over and above
the participating smallholders' replanting grant entitlements and were to cover
development of vacant pocket areas, terracing, drainage, internal roads and
perimeter fencing.   The actual ha under the project was much less than that
estimated at appraisal: only 1,980 ha of new mini-estates were established,
declining from 1,644 ha in 1990 to only 43 ha in 1992, and an annual average of
15,670 ha of existing mini-estates were supported. This lower hectarage was
entirely consistent with appraisal expectations, since many issues had been
raised by the Bank during project preparation and appraisal regarding high costs,
relatively low yields, and social problems of many existing mini-estates,
resulting in a policy decision by the Government and RISDA in 1989 not to
establish new mini-estates unless other forms of replanting (individual,
simultaneous and group) were not feasible. A significant improvement in the data
base relating to mini-estates occurred during the project period and, as a
result, it is possible now to initiate improvements in mini-estate management and
monitor progress. Mini-estate improvement has been included as a significant
component in the follow-on RISDA II project (Ln. 3699-MA).
5.6       Construction and Maintenance of Agricultural Access Roads.   The
estimate at appraisal was about 300 km, including bridges and drainage works, for
mini-estates  and simultaneous  and group replantings.   The very low level
specifications being used for access roads by RISDA often resulted in the roads
being unusable after a single rainy season.  Under the project, RISDA was to
upgrade access roads specifications.  For reasons of construction standards,
RISDA access roads were not accepted as part of the State network and, therefore,
did not qualify for State maintenance funding. RISDA also had no specific budget
allocation for maintenance of roads and other infrastructure constructed in the
past in support of the replanting program. Under the project, RISDA created a
new accounts code for infrastructure maintenance and earmarked adequate funds for
maintenance from its development budget allocations for infrastructure.   The
upgrading of 2,423 km and maintenance of 4,945 km over 1990-92 were far above the
appraisal expectations.  The main reason was the higher budget allocation in the
last year (1990) of the Five Year Plan to utilize the remaining balance under the
Plan. The upgraded access roads specifications were circulated in 1990 and have
generally been followed since then. The skills of RISDA staff responsible for the
supervision of access roads upgrading and maintenance were also enhanced by a
training program which was initiated under the project in 1991 and has continued
since then.



5.7       Extension. The project was to help improve RISDA's extension program
through redefinition of extension staff role, better work programming, better
equipment  and  training.    Specifically,  extensionists were  to  concentrate
increasingly on providing technical assistance to rubber smallholders and were
to shed responsibility for socio-economic activities and loan recoveries. The
skills upgrading program under the project was to include the "training of
trainers" and training of extension workers. These project actions were
satisfactorily implemented (see further para. 5.10).
5.8       Smallholder Training.   The project was to provide equipment for
smallholder training and increase the availability of agricultural training,
particularly for women workers in rubber smallholdings.  Although women as a
group made an important input into rubber production in the smallholder sector
and up to 401 of smallholding tappers in certain States were women, RISDA's
training programs had not made any special provision for the inclusion of women
or focussed on the requirements to ensure their active participation. Moreover,
although RISDA provided extension and training services to women along with men
in the rubber smallholder sector, it did not keep records of trainees by gender.
Under the project, RISDA began to record number by gender of smallholders trained
by its Training Institutes as well as in the field, increased the number of women
trainees at its Training Institutes and expanded facilities for in situ training
of women in villages since socio-economic and cultural factors and transportation
problems made it difficult for women to attend courses at Training Institutes.
The number of women trainees increased from 19% of the total trained in 1989 to
32% by the end of the project in 1992.
Institutional Development
5.9       Vehicles and Equipment.   The project was to provide vehicles and
equipment, primarily computer equipment for improving RISDA's management
information system (MIS), including a mainframe at the head office, mini-
computers at the State level and 70 personal computers for the head office,
Training Institutes and the new responsibility centers emerging from field level
reorganization. Although delayed, the mainframe computer was installed in May
1992, but mini-computers at the State level were not considered necessary due to
a change in the design of the MIS. Instead, the procurement of personal computers
was expanded considerably to 421 compared to 70 at appraisal. Many modules have
been developed by RISDA staff so far and further development is continuing (para
8.2).
5.10      Staff  Training.       Consistent  with  appraisal  expectations,   a
comprehensive and systematic program of local and overseas training for RISDA
staff was  implemented under the project.   For upper management,  training
broadened their experience, skills and perspective. Training was also provided
to strengthen the capabilities of the staff of the Planning Division, Training
and Community Development Division and the Inspectorate and Audit Unit. For the
extension staff, training focussed on improvement of communication skills to
strengthen field performance. Training of female extension staff was given
special emphasis and, for the first time since these staff joined RISDA, they
were given training in rubber production technology and communication skills.
Computer training was given to both management and operator staff to effectively



implement the proposed large expansion of the computerization program.   In
addition, consistent with the pace of field level reorganization and
decentralization, a comprehensive training package was implemented to upgrade the
skills of clerical staff to handle accounting, financial, and electronic data
processing functions. Technical assistance (about 54 person-months) was provided
for improving communication skills of the extension staff and for strengthening
of training management. Skills of the Training Institute Staff and training needs
assessment capacity of headquarters and State level staff were upgraded.
Computers, teaching equipment and teaching materials were procured and
infrastructure improvements at the Training Institutes completed. An upward
regrading of Training Institute teaching staff rank was implemented, thus greatly
improving the status of the teaching staff and effectiveness of training
programs. A RISDA - specific manual on the management of human resources was
prepared by the consultants.
5.11      Studies.  The project was to finance the following five studies by
independent   consultants   to  help   continue  RISDA's   reorganization   and
strengthening: (a) suitable organizational and management models for mini-estates
and procedural changes required to increase their efficiency; (b) a review of the
cooperative structure for the smallholders served by RISDA, including
restructuring and strengthening of the National Rubber Smallholders Cooperative
(NARSCO); (c) a review of the future organizational options for nurseries and
estates under Schemes 1956 and 1959; (d) a technical evaluation of the Muar
computerization project; and (e) the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
system. Four of the five studies were satisfactorily completed, the Muar study
having been dropped as it was no longer relevant for developing the computerized
MIS (see further para. 6.5).
5.12      Prolect Costs and Financing.   At completion,  project costs were
estimated at M$ 576.3 million (US$ 217.5 million), about 5% higher in dollar
terms than the appraisal estimate of M$ 558.1 million (US$ 206.7 million). This
increase was due mainly to the higher proportion of replanting with rubber, for
which grant rates are the highest among crops. The Bank loan of US $71 million
was fully disbursed, ahead of the closing date of December 31, 1993.
6.        Prolect Results
6.1       Overall,  the  project  was  satisfactory  and  mostly  achieved  its
agricultural and institutional objectives, which were necessarily limited, given
the three-year time frame of the project.
6.2       Agricultural Impact. About 101,650 ha of smallholder lands, which had
old, low-yielding rubber, were replanted with modern varieties of rubber and
other crops, which have high yield potential. The total number of smallholders
who benefitted from new replanting under the project is estimated at 58,925 and
those who received second and subsequent grant installments for areas replanted
prior to the project estimated at 63,700.  Since, in the came of rubber, the
areas replanted are still immature, and, in the case of oil palm, only in the
first year of production, the actual production benefits are negligible at this
stage.  However, based on observations of actual conditions in the field and



production performance in other comparable areas, yield profiles have been
developed (Part III, Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2), which show satisfactory yield
levels and are close to appraisal expectations.
6.3       The project's agricultural impact could, however, be neutralized by
the growing shortage of labor in the agricultural sector, in general, and rubber
sub-sector, in particular, in Malaysia. Large areas of mature rubber in Malaysia
are reportedly not being tapped mainly due to tapper shortage and this is a major
reason (along with the decline in world rubber prices) for the steady decrease
of rubber production in Malaysia from a high of about 1.65 million tons in 1988
to about 1.20 million tons in 1993. Discussions on possible solutions to address
the labor issue started during project implementation and the introduction of
low-intensity tapping systems (LITS) for rubber was included as a major component
of the follow-on RISDA II project (Loan 3699-MA), which will also benefit the
areas replanted with rubber under RISDA I. Compared to the current labor-
intensive alternate day tapping (d/2), LITS can reduce labor requirement by 33%
with third day tapping (d/3), by 50% with fourth day tapping (d/4), or even more
with lower intensities of tapping. The feasibility and benefits of LITS have
been demonstrated by the results of the pilot program launched by the Federal
Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA) in 1991 and supported
by the Bank under the Second and Third FELCRA projects (Loans 2917-MA and 3484-
MA). In view of the encouraging results of the LITS program in FELCRA, the LITS
component of RISDA II envisages coverage of all RISDA mini-estates facing tapper
shortage by the end of the project and a reorientation of RISDA's extension
program to extend the LITS technology to smallholders over a ten-year period
beginning 1994. A successful introduction of LITS to rubber smallholders under
RISDA would have major efficiency gains through reduction in costs and tapping
of areas currently untapped due to labor shortage. In addition, because of a much
slower rate of tapping bark consumption with LITS, the average yield level is
higher than under d/2. Part III, Annex I Table I shows the different yield levels
attainable with and without LITS.
6.4       A  notable  achievement  of the project was  increased  smallholder
training,  particularly  for women.    RISDA  now  has  a  training  database,
disaggregated by gender, and data show the significant increase in the proportion
of women trainees from about 19% in the pre-project situation to about 32% by the
end of the project. This proportion is expected to be maintained under RISDA II
Project.
6.5       Institutional Impact.  The project's impact on RISDA as an institution
can be considered significant. Several institutional improvements occurred during
preparation and implementation of the project: (a) the headquarters structure of
RISDA was streamlined, with merger of several units and Divisions; (b) the three-
tier field structure was rationalized by abolishing the Regional Offices and a
two-tier structure was established with 60 Responsibility Centers (RCs) and 11
State Offices; and the RCs were considerably strengthened through prcvision of
training, equipment and vehicles; (c) the establishment of a computerized MIS was
initiated; (d) RISDA's training facilities were considerably improved through
provision of new equipment; several new training programs were initiated and are
continuing  in  computers,   infrastructure  construction  and  maintenance,
communication skills for extension staff, and accounting, finance and electronic
data processing for clerical staff in the new RCs; a significant overseas



- 9 -
training program was completed; and technical assistance for developing training
needs assessment capability, improving communication skills of the extension
staff, and strengthening of training management, was satisfactorily completed;
(e) the four studies completed under the project provided the basis for further
institutional actions relating to the establishment of a monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system for RISDA; the formulation of a plan for strengthening
64 cooperatives under RISDA (which is now a component of RISDA II project); the
reorganization of nurseries through takeover of Schemes 1956 and 1959 by RISDA's
management subsidiary, ESPEK; and initiation of efficiency improvement measures
for mini-estates including divestment to cooperatives and ESPEK, improved
training of supervisors and tappers, and a significant improvement in data base;
and (f) RISDA's processing and marketing functions were divested to NARSCO.
6.6       There are several noticeable results of these institutional changes:
with the divestiture of RISDA's commercial functions, there is a greater
consensus within RISDA regarding fundamental issues facing the rubber smallholder
subsector (mainly high labor costs, low productivity, and small farm size
resulting in low income from rubber), a sharper focus on RISDA's developmental
role for rubber, and emphasis on more cost-effective policies and programs,
compared to the earlier situation when RISDA's attention was diffused over a
variety of developmental, commercial and social activities; contacts with
smallholders are closer and services more effective through delegation of
considerable authority to the new and strengthened Responsibility Centers; the
data base has improved significantly, facilitating more informed decision-making;
emphasis has shifted from establishment of new mini-estates to more efficient
management of existing mini-estates, including transfer to subsidiaries and
cooperatives, introduction of labor-saving technologies, and increased tapper
training; staff skills and motivation have generally improved with expanded local
and overseas training and provision of over 400 microcomputers under the project;
monitoring of extension programs, mini-estates and cooperatives is at a more
refined level than in the pre-project situation; and the awareness of the need
for gender-disaggregated data and gender-specific development interventions has
been   institutionalized.   Several   institutional   initiatives,   including
operationalization of the computerized MIS, expanded staff and smallholder
training, improved human resource management, more reliable mini-estate data base
and more systematic mini-estate management, and strengthening and rationalization
of cooperatives, are being pursued under the RISDA II Project (Ln. 3699-MA). With
the development of some of the computerized modules nearing completion, RISDA is
now close to having an M&E system, which will generate reliable, consistent data
not only on the physical and financial aspects of implementation but also for the
first time on the qualitative impact of RISDA's agricultural programs in terms
of five indicators specified under the RISDA project viz. tree girthing rate,
tree survival rate, time lapse from planting to harvesting and production of cash
crops on immature rubber and oil palm holdings and yield of rubber on mature
holdings. A study based on these indicators by type of replanting viz.
individual, simultaneous, group and mini-estates is expected to be completed by
July 31, 1995 under the RISDA II project, which provides consultancy support for
the study.
6.7       Although  the  project's  institutional  impact  can  be  considered
substantial, it could have been even higher if RISDA had top management stability
and consistency of policies and programs. This was not the case since RISDA had
four different top managements over a span of five years. This resulted in



- 10 -
several (temporary) policy reversals by succeeding managements; insufficient
guidance and control, particularly of the computerized MIS program; policy and
program initiatives that had not been well thought-out and discussed within the
institution, causing confusion about RISDA's mandate and priorities; and low
morale and uncertainties for the staff (see further para. 9.1).
6.8       The training program under the project contributed substantially to
the achievement of the institutional development objectives (paras. 5.8 and
5.10). However, the training needs assessment capability built up under the
project is not being used as a regular activity in the human resource management
process and RISDA is still very weak in the area of human resource development
and management. These issues are being further addressed under RISDA II to
strengthen RISDA's institutional performance.
6.9       Cooperatives. Although RISDA's 64 cooperatives were expected to become
self-financing by the end of the project, only 36 managed to do so. This
institutional objective of the project was thus only partially achieved. Not
enough information was available at appraisal regarding cooperatives and,
therefore, no specific action plan was included in the project. Instead, a study
of cooperatives and NARSCO was included. The conditionality relating to self-
financing of cooperatives was included essentially to help focus RISDA's
attention on the need to formulate an action plan and to monitor its
implementation. Before the project, the monitoring of cooperatives' performance
was extremely weak and no consensus existed within RISDA on the long-term goals
of cooperatives, the measures needed to achieve those goals, and the performance
indicators to be monitored. The findings of the study conducted under the project
and considerable discussions of the Bank with RISDA and cooperatives in 1992 and
1993 led to the formulation of an action plan for cooperatives, which is now a
component of RISDA II. The plan envisages specialization by different
cooperatives in infrastructure works, input supply and planting material
production, and training of cooperative staff and Board members accordingly. In
addition, technical assistance will be provided under RISDA II to strengthen
cooperatives.
6.10      Smallholder Incomes. The holdings replanted under the project have not
yet reached the production stage. Based on the average replanting of 2 ha,
expected yields and projected prices, and assuming that labor during the
production phase would be provided by the family, net monthly farm incomes from
rubber would average M$471 and from oil palm M$173 during the peak production
years 11-20. While the income from rubber is reasonable compared to the poverty
income of M$380 per month per family, the income from oil palm would be very
unattractive if the projected low prices materialize.
6.11      Cost Recovery. The export duty and replanting and research cesses on
rubber, compared to the replanting grant, imply full cost recovery over the life
of the rubber trees. Supplementary mini-estate development costs (para. 5.5) are
to be fully recovered from participants after mini-estates reach the production
stage.
6.12      Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  The ERR for the project, based on
replantings only (that is, excluding prior plantings maintained under the



- 11 -
project) as was done at appraisal, is estimated at about 11%, which is
satisfactory but lower than the appraisal estimate of 14% due to higher labor
costs and less favorable commodity price projections. In particular, the
projected price of oil palm for the year 2005 is about 47% lower than at
appraisal and that of rubber 13% lower. The ERR is estimated on the basis of the
current alternate day tapping.   If LITS is assumed, the ERR will be several
percentage points higher, depending on the level of adoption assumed.
7.        Project Sustainability
7.1       Project sustainability is likely.  Financially, the rubber cess/grant
system ensures financing of a certain level of replanting every year.   In
addition, government has been committed to provide budgetary allocations for a
higher level of replanting  than would be possible with the current  cess
collections and grant rates.  Institutionally, RISDA is a well-established and
mature agency with reasonable level of funding available for its development and
recurrent budgets.   Economically, the adoption of LITS (para. 6.3) would be
necessary in the long term for the viability of rubber in Malaysia, given the
increasing shortage of labor and rising wages and the current price projections.
8.        Bank Performance
8.1       Overall,   the   Bank's   performance   was   satisfactory   during
identification, preparation, appraisal and implementation of the project.
Conscious of the serious organizational and management problems besetting RISDA
in the late 1980s, the Bank devoted special attention to this aspect during
project preparation and produced a report recommending organizational changes in
RISDA. Many of the recommendations were implemented during project preparation
and implementation (para. 6.5). With institutional changes nearly implemented,
the Bank started concentrating in the last year of the project (1992) more on the
technical aspects of RISDA's work relating to nurseries, clonal selection and new
technologies, including LITS. These technical aspects became an integral part
of RISDA II. The Bank also concentrated on cooperatives in the last year of the
project, since this had remained a weak area (para. 6.9).
8.2       The Bank underestimated the time required to establish a computerized
MIS.   There was a considerable delay in the installation of the mainframe
computer mainly due to delays in the preparation of technical specifications by
RISDA. Later, the development of modules was set back a little because of the
unexpected departure of the local consultant. Subsequently, RISDA computer staff
developed several modules on their own and did an admirable job.  Two modules
relating to replanting, and modules relating to stock management, financial
accounting, budget, and fixed assets have been developed, while the third
replanting module, personnel database, M&E, mini-estate management, executive
information system, communication and Geographic Information System (GIS) modules
will be developed under RISDA II. Because of the delay in the development and
operationalization of various modules, which are expected to generate information
on RISDA's programs, the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of RISDA's



- 12 -
agricultural progratu t&s not yet been initiated.  This is expected to be done in
1995 (para. 6.6).
8.3       The continuity of the Bank team from identification through project
completion of RISDA I and identification through loan signing of RISDA II greatly
facilitated mutual understanding and trust between RISDA and the Bank and ensured
consistency of project design for RISDA I and II and smooth implementation of
RISDA I. The Bank's supervision was conducted twice a year and the supervision
team was well-balanced with an economist and tree crops specialist continuing
throughout, supplemented by expertise in organization and management, finance and
accounting, infrastructure, computerized MIS, training and women - in -
development. The supervision missions attempted to provide a degree of stability
to RISDA in the face of constant top management changes (para. 6.7) and routinely
discussed conceptual issues regarding RISDA's role and project implementation
issues with all the Divisions at headquarters and with field staff. The field
visits regularly covered replanting activities, nurseries, mini-estates,
extension and smallholder training, cooperatives and women - in - development
activities, and helped clarify further actions under the follow-on RISDA II
project.
9.        Borrower Performance
9.1       RISDA's  performance  was  generally  satisfactory  during  project
preparation and implementation. Several institutional measures included in the
project were implemented ahead of time. Unfortunately, however, top management
changes in RISDA were too frequent (para. 6.7) and resulted in uncertainties and
low morale for staff. This has been a significant problem for RISDA, compared
to other major agricultural parastatals in the country, which have enjoyed
relative management stability and consequent continuity and consistency of
policies. Because of the frequent top management changes, it has been difficult
to maintain within RISDA a consensus on RISDA's mandate, strategy and
implementation policies and programs. This is an area which deserves continued
attention under the RISDA II project.
9.2       The Borrower mostly complied with legal agreements, prepared timely
and detailed reports of project progress and fully cooperated with Bank
supervision missions.   The audit reports on Statements of Expenditures were
timely. However, the audit reports on RISDA's financial statements were always
late. The Government has now appointed a private firm to audit RISDA's accounts
and this is expected to result in timely auditing.
10.       Proiect Relationships
10.1      The relationship between the Hank and RISDA remained cordial and
cooperative throughout and the rapport was greatly facilitated by the continuity
of the Bank team (para. 8.3.  The understandings reached within the project
framework and twice-yearly miss l.OlS of the Bank to review the implementation of
those agreements provided some stability against the backdrop of frequent top
management changes at RISDA (paras. 6.7 and i l



- 13 -
11.       Consulting Services
11.1      The performance of consultants for the four studies, strengthening
training management, and improving communication skills of extension staff was
generally satisfactory. The study on the M&E system for RISDA was particularly
good and provided a sound basis for the future development of the M&E system in
RISDA.
12.       Prolect Documentation and Data
12.1      The Staff Appraisal Report provided a satisfactory framework for
project implementation.   Half-yearly progress reports, which contained the
essential information relating to the project, were prepared by RISDA. Most of
the data required for the preparation of the PCR were readily available with
RISDA and were provided to the PCR mission.



- 14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        The result of RISDA I project was positive in pursuing the objectives
of increasing the productivity and efficiency of the rubber smallholder
subsector, improving RISDA's institutional effectiveness, and helping develop
human resources and the private sector in rural areas.
A.        Borrower's Performance And Lessons Learned
i. Strengthening of Cooperatives
2.        In formulating any strategy to make the RISDA smallholder cooperatives
(RSCs) viable, RISDA recognized that regardless of their individual performnice,
all RSCs are substantially dependent on RISDA. Despite the fact that RISDA is
the major source of the contracts, the performance of the individual RSCs varies
considerably.
3.        After a decade of cooperatives in existence, RISDA realized that the
RSCs were faced with operating difficulties arising from the following factors:
(a) lack of clear policy and direction;
(b) disproportionate allocation of contracts;
(c) too many unrelated activities undertaken by RSCs;
(d) low operating margins;
(e) lack of management expertise;
(f) lack of relevant support from RISDA/NARSCO;
(g) undertaking activities without experience;
(h) lack of distinction between profits and social motives; and
(i) delays in preparation of accounts.
4.        RISDA also realized that the RSCs' management was not yet competent
to run their business without RISDA's close supervision. This was canfimed fran
the fact that almost 70% of the members felt that the RSCs would not be able to
stand on their own without continued support from RISDA. Therefore, there is an
urgent need to develop and implement a comprehensiverationalization plan to make
the RSCs viable.



- 15 -
ii. Improvement of Mini Estate Management
5.        During the course of the RISDA I project, RISDA made very significant
progress in developing its mini-estate data base. However, there is stillmuch
scope for improvement. Many data shortcomings and inconsistencies came to light
during project implementation which precluded a full and clear picture of the
status and achievements of the program. Some of the data were clearly errors of
input such as confused data base and misidentification of mini-estates. RISDA
needs to further develop and refine the data base so that it can function as a
powerful tool for the benefit of the mini-estate program.
iii. Development of Computerized MIS
6.        During  project  implementation,  some  significant  changes  in  the
computerized MIS program took place.   The 11 mini-computers were no longer
considered necessary; instead, the number of PCs to be procured was increased.
This was done in view of the field level reorganization of RISDA, whereby the
States only retained planning, monitoring and supervision role and all
significant operational responsibilities were transferred to the new 60
responsibility centers, which, consequently, had a greater need for computer
facilities. Substantial hardware and software have been purchased under RISDA
I Project, including a mainframe computer, procured through ICB and installed in
1992, and 421 PCs.
7.        As the computerized MIS is coming on stream, RISDA will now focus on
using the data for improving its management efficiency.   The monitoring and
evaluation function in RISDA should be redefined against the background of the
newly improved management information system, and to take advantage of the timely
availability of a wide range of operationally relevant data.
B.        Relationship Between The Bank and Borrower
8.        RISDA wishes  to thank  the  Bank  for maintaining  the  same  team
throughout the project period.  This greatly facilitated a close rapport and
cordial relationship between the Bank and RISDA in spite of frequent top
management changes at RISDA.



- 16 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan/Title               Year of Approval I/    Status           Comments
Ln. 1899-MA Kelantan Land
Rehabilitation                    1981         Completed       PCR issued 12/91
Ln. 2147-MA Malacca
Agricultural Development          1982         Completed       PCR issued 5/92
Ln. 2220-MA Kedah Valley
Agriculture                       1983          Completed      PCR issued 5/91
Ln. 2740-MA Second Western
Johor Agricultural
Development                       1987         On-going        Closes 12/94
Ln. 3699-MA  Second RISDA           1994          On-going        Closes 12/97
I/   IBRD Fiscal Year



- 17 -
2. Project Timetable
Event              Planned Date              Actual  Date
Identification                                                 10/87
Preappraisal                                                   11/88
Appraisal                                                      03/89
Loan Negotiations                                          11/06/89
Board Approval                                             12/12/89
Loan Signing                                               01/11/90
Loan Effectiveness            04/11/90                     04/19/90
Project Completion             12/31/92                    12/31/92
Loan Closing                   12/31/93                    12/31/93
Final Loan Disbursement                                    08/17/93



- 18 -
3(A). Loan Disbursements (USS Million)
Formally
Bank                   Actual           Profile          Revised          Original
Fiscal                 Amount           Amount            Amount           Amount
Year                Cumulative       Cumulative        Cumulative        Cumulative
1990
Dec. 1989
March 1990
June 1990               3.98                                              .30
1991
September 1990          7.59                                              2.15
December 1990          14.51           2.13                               4.00
March 1991             16.39                                              8.00
June 1991             22.06            4.26                              12.00
1992
September 1991        29.24                                              16.50
December 1991          34.69           9.94                              21.00
March 1992             39.71                                             27.00
June 1992              45.83          15.62                              33.00
1993
September 1992        46.91                                              40.50
December 1992         52.48           21.30                              48.00
March 1993             60.12                                             55.50
June 1993             65.32           26.98                              63.00
1994
September 1993        71.00                                              67.00
December 1993                         32.66                              71.00
The last disbursement was on August 17, 1993.



- 19 -
3(B). Loan Disbursement by Categories
(US$ million)
Category                                 SAR         Actual           X
1.  Replanting and Maintenance                   47.80        51.19          107
2. Rehabilitation, Agricultural
Inputs, Supplementary Costs
of Mini-Estates,
Infrastructure and Extension                 18.10        15.39           85
3.  Vehicles and Equipment                        3.90         2.88           73
4. Consultancy Services and
Overseas Training                             1.20         1.54          128
Total                                 71.00         71.00          100



- 20 -
4. Proiect Implementation
A. Key Indicators
Appraisal
Item              Unit           Target        Actual       Z Achievement
Replanting /a                 ha          101,500       101,650          100
Maintenance during
immaturity la                ha          129,300       143,780           111
Rehabilitation                ha            7,500         5,000           67
Agricultural Inputs
(fertilizers)                h            60,000 /b    54,675 /b          91
Agricultural Access Roads
(a) Construction            km              300         2,423          808
(b) Maintenance             km              300         4,945         1648
Smallholders Trained
(a) In-situ Training
- Male                 No.              /L         -  e-
- Female               No.          15,000         - /e
(b) At training Institutes
- Male                 No.               /c       8,790 /f        -
- Female               No.           2,500       15,294 If        612
Staff Trained
(a) Local Training          No.               /c       3,750 /b        -
(b) Overseas Training       No.               61          45           74
RISDA Responsibility
Centers /d                   No.              60           60           100
Computer Equipment Procured
(a) Mainframe               No.                1            1          100
(b) Mini-Computers          No.               11           0              0
(c) Personal Computers      No.              70          421           601
Consultancy for Training    Person/months   54              54           100
/a Excludes areas under other externally-funded projects (see Section 4B). The figure for maintenance is
for the last year of the project.
Lb Annual average over 1990-92.
/c There was no specific appraisal target.
/d Excluding State Offices and Training Institutes.
/e Under the current system of recording the number of smallholder trainees by extension workers, the
precise number of individuals trained in a given year cannot be ascertained. The recording system is
being changed.
Lf These are very high because of the huge numbers trained in computers in 1991 (5237 male and
13,665 female). For 1992, the proportion of female trainees was 33% of the total.



- 21 -
4(B). Achievements by Crop and Year (Ha)
i. Replanting a/
Crop                1990              1991               1992                 Total
Rubber                24,800             27,330             31,590              83,720
Oil Palm               4,290              2,680              3,490              10,460
Others                 1,830              2,210              3,430               7,470
Total           30,920             32,220             38,510             101,650
ii. Crop Maintenance bI
Crop                1990               1991              1992
Rubber                72,500              93,710            115,580
Oil Palm              22,000              21,340             18,490
Others                13,810               9,310              9,710
Total          108,310             124,360            143,780
a/   Excludes areas under other externally-funded projects as follows: 3129 ha in 1990 and 3318 ha in
1991 and 3005 ha in 1992 for Bank-funded Second Westem Johor Agricultural Development Project;
211 ha in 1990 and 165 ha in 1991 for ADB-funded Perlis Agricultural Development Project; and
3640 ha in 1990 and 3580 ha in 1991 for ADB-funded Terengganu Smallholder Development Project.
Both Perlis and Terengganu projects were completed in 1991.
b/   Excludes areas under other externally-funded projects as follows: 6,780 ha in 1990 and 7,500 ha each
in 1991 and 1992 for Second Westem Johor Project; 674 ha in 1990 and 742 ha in 1991 for Perlis
Project; and 8,298 ha in 1990 and 9,284 ha in 1991 for Terengganu Project.



- 22 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(all values in millions)
SAR 1/                 PCR
MYR      US$          MYR 2/    US$
Replanting and Maintenance           396.7        146.9        434.5   164.0
Rehabilitation                         9.0          3.3          9.5      3.6
Agricultural Inputs                   48.3         17.9         44.2    16.6
Supplementary Costs of
Mini-Estates                        68.0         25.2         23.6      8.8
Infrastructure                         7.5          2.8         29.3    11.0
Extension and Smallholder
Training                            10.5          3.9         15.6     5.9
Management Facilities                 14.1          5.2         16.0      6.1
Staff Training                         3.2          1.2         2.8       1.2
Studies                                0.8          0.3         0.8       0.3
Total                          558.1        206.7        576.3   217.5
1/ Including physical and price contingencies.
2/ Project costs at completion in local currency are based on audited
Statements of Expenditure and converted to US$ at the exchange rates of
MYR 2.70, 2.75, and 2.55 for 1990, 1991 and 1992, respectively.



- 23 -
5(B).  Proiect Financing
(US$ million)
Rubber /a
Component                   World Bank            cOM            Smallholders          Total
Amount  %        Amount  %          Amount  %        Amount    %
Replanting & Maintenance    51.2   31         37.8      24       75.0      45    164.0       75
Rehabilitation               1.2    34        2.4       66       -         -       3.6       2
Agricultural Inputs          5.6    34       11.0       66       -         -      16.6        8
Supplementary Costs of
Mini-Estates                 2.9    34        5.9       66       -         -       8.8        4
Infrastructure               3.7    34        7.3       66       -         -      11.0        5
Ext. & Smallholder Training  2.0    34        3.9       66       -         -       5.9        3
Management Facilities        2.9    47        3.2       53       -          -      6.1        3
Staff Training:  (a) Overseas   0.6   100      -             -              -      0.6        -
(b) T.A.      0.6   100                                      -     0.6
Studies                      0.3   100         -         -       -          -      0.3        -
Total Financing              71.0   33        71.5      32       75.0      35     217.5    100
/a     Through replanting cess payments. The estimate of smallholder contribution is approximate and is pro-rated,
taking into account other externally-funded projects with RISDAcomponents.



- 24 -
6. Prolect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                                   Appraisal Estimate       Estimate atProject
Completion
Incremental Annual Production at Full
Development (tons) /a
Rubber (tons)                             180,000                  220,000
Palm Oil (tons)                           180,000                  116,000
No. of Beneficiaries (families) /b              104,000                 122,625
/a   In early twenty-first century; from both replantings and crop maintenance during
immaturity of areas planted prior to the project. The share of the two is
approximately the same for rubber. For palm oil, the production share of re-planting
estimated at appraisal was 115,000 tons and at completion about 37,000 tons.
/b   The appraisal estimate was about 51,000 for replantings and 53,000 for crop
maintenance during immaturity; at project completion, the number is 58,925 for
replantings and 63,700 for crop maintenance.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate      Estimate at Project
Completion
Economic Rate of Return                            142                     11%
Underlying Assumptions
Project Life                                    32                       32
Commodity Prices:
Rubber (MYR/kg) /a                             2.70                     2.34
Oil Palm (MYR/ton ffb) /a                    185                       98
Average Yields:
Rubber (Kg/ha) lb                          1,100                    1,100
Oil Palm (ton ffb/ha) /b                      13                       15
La   Farmgate prices for year 2005 in 1993 constant terms.  Tha appraisal figures were
in 1988 constant terms and have been converted to 1993 constant terms.
/b   Average of individual and group replantings.



- 25 -
C. Financial Impact
Indicators                      Appraisal Estimate       Estimate at Project
Completion
Net Farm Income
(Average Monthly in MYR) /a
From Rubber                         509 /b                   471
From Oil Palm                       439 /b                   173
/a In 1993 constant terms.
/b The appraisal estimate was MYR 416 for rubber and MYR 359 for oil palm
average monthly income from years 11 to 23 of development in 1988 constant
terms for a 2.0 ha farm. This has been converted to 1993 constant terms
using the consumer price index.



D.    Studies
Studies                  Purpose                             Status                 Impact of Study
1.    Mini-Estates              To recommend the most              Completed in           Improved the data base relating
suitable organizational            1991 by local         to mini-estates and helped further
and management structure           consultants.           action to improve their efficiency.
for the development and
operation of mini-estates
and procedural changes
required to increase their
efficiency.
2.    Cooperatives and          To recommend ways to develop       Completed in           Provided data for the formulation
NARSCO                   a sound cooperative structure    1991 by local            of an action plan for strengthening
for the smallholders served        consultants.          cooperatives, which was included
by RISDA, including                                       under RISDA II. The part of the
restructuring and strengthening                           study relating to NARSCO was not
of NARSCO.                                                very useful.
3.    Schemes 1956 and 1959   To recommend the most                Completed in           Provided comparative cost data on
appropriate organizational         1991 by local          nurseries and facilitated a decision   O
arrangement for nurseries and    consultants.             by RISDA to transfer the management
estates under Schemes 1956 and                            of the Schemes to ESPEK, a RISDA
1959 after their merger.                                  subsidiary management company, on
January 1, 1992.
4.    Muar Computerization    To undertake a thorough              Dropped since the
Project                  technical review of the             study was no longer
pilot smallholder information    relevant for the
system at Muar and to assess       design of the MIS.
its relevance to the MIS
proposed for RISDA.
5.    Monitoring and            To prepare a detailed proposal   Completed in 1991    Provided a very good basis for
Evaluation (M&E)         on implementing a system of         by local               the development of an M&E system
performance monitoring in          consultants.           in RISDA, which is expected to be
RISDA, defining the analytical                            operational in 1995.
techniques and the use of the
results.



-27 -
7. Status of Maior Leaal Covenants
Aareement         Section         Status     OrJginal     Revised      Description of Covenant          Comments
Date         Date
Loan               3.01 (b)         OK      04/11/90                   A Subsidiary Loan         Completed. (Was a
Agreement to be entered   condition of Loan
Into between the          Effectiveness).
Government and RISDA
3.04           OK                                 Government to consult with   Complied with.
the Bank by September 30,
1990 and by September 30
of each year thereafter on
RISDA's annual work
program and funding for
the following year.
3.05           OK                                 Government to maintain the   Write-Off Committee is
Write-Off Committee, with    being maintained.
composition and terms of
reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.01 (b)       SOON                                Government to furnish to   SOE audits are up to date
the Bank RISDA's audited  but the audit report on
financial statements and  RISDA's overall financial
audit report, Including a  statements for 1992 Is
separate opinion on       overdue. The report Is
Statement of Expenditure,    expected by end-June 1994
not later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal
year.
6.01 (b)        OK       04/11/90        _         Government to furnish to   Completed. (Was a
the Bank RISDA's audied    condition of Loan
financial statements and  Effectiveness).
audit report for 1987
Prolect           4.01 (b) (iv)     OK       12/31/90                  RISDA to furnish to the    1988 audit report fumished
Bank its audited financial    In time. 1989 audit report
statements and audit      completed In early 1992.
reports for 1988 and 1989
Schedule 2                          OK       09130/90                  RISDA to complete five     One study dropped. Four
2.                                               project studies.           studies completed during
June-November 1991.
3.            OK                                 RISDA to refrain from      Complied with.
administrative Intervention
to enforce specfic crop
ratios In replanting.
4.            OK                                 RISDA to establish and     Complied with.
maintain a record of
smaliholder trainees by
gender and Implement a
program to increase the
number of women trainees
at RISDA training instiutes
and to expand facilties for
in-situ training of women In
villages.



28 -
Agreement         Section         Status      Original     Revised      Description of Covenant          Comments
Date         Date
6.            OK                    .             RISDA to upgrade           Complied with.
specifications for
agricultural access roads,
establish a separate
account code for
infrastructure maintenance,
and provide adequate and
timely funds for
infrastructure maintenance.
Supple-mental         a.             OK       12/31/90                  RISDA to complete its head   Completed.
Letter                                                                  office reorganization.
b.            OK       12/31/92        _          RISDA to substantially     Completed.
complete its field level
reorganization and
decentralization.
c.            OK       12/31/92                   RISDA to take measures to    Continuing. Further
strengthen the role of its  strengthening provided
extension staff.           under the RISDA II project.
d.            OK       12/31/90                   RISDA to transfer its      Completed.
marketing operations to
NARSCO.
e.            CP       12/31/91                   RISDA to complete the      Not completed. Only 36 of
process of transformino   the 64 cooperatives became
RISDA's cooperatives Into    self-financing by the end of
self-financing entities.  the project period (1992).
t.            OK       12/31/90                  RISDA to decide on the     Decision taken. ESPEK, a
future organizational and  RISDA subsidiary
financial arrangements of  management company, is
Schemes 1956 and 1959      managing the Schemes
(nurseries and estates).   since January 1, 1992.
g.            OK       12131/90        _          RISDA to discontinue its   Complied with.
credit activities (except for
the credit component of
mini-estate development
costs).
h.            OK       12/31/92         =         RISDA to implement a       Partly implemented.
computerized management   Expected to be substantially
information system (MIS).    implemented by 1995.
KEY: OK: Covenant complied with; SOON: Compliance expected in reasonably short time; CP: Complied with partialty.



- 29 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff InDuts (staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle          Total   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94
Identification/Preparation    60.9    23.4   37.5
Appraisal                       30.9             26.6    4.3
Negotiations/Board               8.7                     8.7
Supervision                     50.2                    15.1   14.7   15.7    4.7
Completion                       4.0                                                    4.0
TOTAL:      154.7    23.4   64.1   28.1   14.7   15.7    4.7    4.0
B.' Missions
Total                      Prolect
Stage of             Month/      No. of      Days in      Speciali-    Performance
Project Cycle        Year       Persons      Field        zations a/   Rating b/
Identification       10/87         2          8           E, T
Preparation 1        03/88         2          8           E, T
Preparation 2        06/88         4        100           E, T, F, F
Pre-Appraisal         11/88        2         24           E, T
Appraisal            03/89          5        80           E, F, T, C, Tr
Supervision 1        03/90         3         36           E, T, F              1
Supervision 2        10/90         3         15           E, G, Tr             1
Supervision 3        05/91         5         33           E, T, W, G, Tr       1
Supervision 4         11/91        2         20           E, T                 1
Supervision c/       02/92         2          7           C, Tr                n.a.
Supervision 5        05/92          3        40           E, T, W              1
Supervision 6        02/93         2         10           E, T                 1
PCR Mission          05/94          1         7           E
a/  C = Computerized MIS Specialist, E = Economist, F - Financial Analyst/Organization
and Management Specialist, G = Rural Engineer, T - Tree Crops Specialist, Tr
Training Specialist, W = Women-in-Development Specialist.
b/ Overall Status.
c/ A four-day mission in February 1992 by a Training Specialist and a three-day
mission in March 1992 by a computerized MIS Specialist.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Malaysia
RISDA Proiect (Ln. 3139-MA)
Rubber Yield Profiles
Rubber (Kg Dry Rubber/ha)
With Project (Without LITS)                                With Project (With LITS)
Years              Individual/TSS     Group and Mini-Estate               Individual/TSS        Group              Mini-Estate
1 /a
2
3
4
5
6
7                                           200                                                     200                     250
8                       300                 500                                 300                 600                     600
9                       600                 900                                 600                 900                     950
10                      800                1100                                 800                1100                    1100
11                     1000                1200                                1000                1200                    1200
12                     1100                1300                                1100                1300                    1350
13                     1300                1400                                1200                1400                    1450
14                     1400                1600                                1300                1600                    1600
s5                     1500                1700                                1400                1700                    1700
16                     1500                1600                                1500                1700                    1700
17                     1400                1600                                1500                1700                    1700
19                     1500                1500                                1400                1500                    1600
19                     1400                1400                                1300                1500                    1600
20                     1200                1300                                1400                1400                    1600
21                     1000                1200                                1300                1400                    1500
22                      900                1300                                1300                1300                    1500
23                     1000                1200                                1200                1300                    1400
24                      900                1100                                1200                1200                    1400
25                      900                1000                                1100                1300                    1300
26                      800                 900                                1200                1300                    1300
27                      700                1100                                1100                1200                    1200
28                     1000                 1000                               1000                1200                    1200
29                      800                 900                                 900                1100                    1100
30                      600                 700                                 900                1000                    1100
Total Yield (Tonsl      23.6                27.7                                 26                 30.1                   31.4
Years of Production      23                   24                                 23                  24                      24
Mean Annual Yield/ha   1026 kg.            1154 kg.                            1130 kg.            1254 kg.                1308 kg.
LITS - Low-intensity Tapping Systems
Individual - Individual Replanting
TSS - Simultaneous Replanting
Group = Group Replanting
e/ From land preparation to planting.
CD >
_ 



32
Annex 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                  Table 2
Malaysia
RISDA  Proiect (Ln. 3139-MA)
Oil Palm Yield Profile
Oil Palm                  Extraction
(Ton ffb/ha)                 Rate (%)
Years  lndividual/TSS   Group Mini-Estate               Oil   Kernel
1a                       -       -        -              -          -
2
3                            -            .
4                        -       -        2              12          4
5                        3       4        5              12          4
6                        6       8        8              14          4
7                       10      12       12              16          4
8                       12      15       15              18        4.5
9                       14      17       17              19        4.5
10                      16      19       19             20         4.5
11                      17      20       20             20         4.5
12                      18      20       20             20         4.5
13                      18      20       20             20         4.5
14                      18      20       20             20         4.5
15                      18      19       19             20         4.5
16                      17      19       19             20         4.5
17                      17      19       19             20         4.5
18                      16      18       18             20         4.5
19                      16      18       18             20         4.5
20                      15      17       17              20        4.5
21                      15      17       17             20         4.5
22                      14      16       16              20        4.5
23                      14      16       16              20        4.5
24                      13      15       15             20         4.5
25                      13      15       15              20        4.5
26                      12      14       15              20        4.5
27                      12      14       14             20         4.5
28                      11      13       14              20        4.5
29                      11      12       13             20         4.5
30                      10      11       12              20        4.5
Total Yield (tons)     356    408       415
Years of Production     26      26       26
Mean Annual Yield/ha   13.7   15.7     16.0
Individual = Individual Replanting
TSS = Simultaneous Replanting
Group = Group Replanting
la From land preparation to planting.



PIROJPCT COMPJ lTION REPORT
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJPCTI'(1N. 3139-MA)
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENPFPITS (MS MILI.ION)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Bencfits /I
Rubber                            -       -        -        -       -        -        -       15.8    50.3    102.0   150.0   183.4   216.4   243.0   270.7   285.9
Oil Palm         .                -       -        -        -        1.8     4.4      8.2     11.7    15.0       17.5    19.9    20.5    20.1    20.5    19.6    18.5
SaleofRubberwoodl2                15.5    16.1    19.3          -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -            -       -        -
Sublolal                 15.5    16.1    19.3    -          1.8     4.4      8.2      27.5    65.3    119.5   169.9   203.9   236.5   263.5   290.3   304.4
Costs /I
On-Farm Costs of Rubber/3         68.1    97.2    121.4   49.4    34.1    34.0    31.5    56.1    80.9    117.3   117.9   123.0   123.7   125.5   124.3   120.0   >
On-Farm Costs of Oil Palm n3       9.6     9.7      13.0    8.1      7.9      8.5     9.0      9.2     9.8       9.7     10.1    10.0      9.9     9.5      9.3     8.8
Infrastructure Cons. & Maintcnancc   2.5   2.5       2.5    0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5       0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5
Vchicies (Capital & Opcr. Costs)  2.0      2.0       0.5    0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5       0.5     0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5
Sublotal                 82.2    111.4   137.4   58.5    43.0    43.5    41.5    66.3    91.7    128.0   129.0   134.0   134.6   136.0   134.6   129.8
Economic Rate of Rdum = 11 %
11 In 1993 constant terms. Only replantings from 1990 onwards are included. Crops otlier ilian rubber and oil palm have been excluded from analysis since their individual costs and benefits
arc very small.
/2 At MS 500/ha. At appraisal, it was assumed that in withiout project situation, smaliholders will continue to tap old rubber Irces until yiclds rcach 300 kg/ha and, therefore, incomc foregone
was Ircated as a cost, adjusted for tlie benefit of rubberwood sale in Iltc first year. At the prevailing rubber prices, the appraisal assumption of income foregone is no longcr realistic since
rubber trees with yields of less than 500 kg/ha arc abandoned. Therefore, only sale of rubberwood has been included.
/3 Excludes supplementary costs of mini-estates since very fcw new mini-estates were established.
oqP
(DI
0



PROJECT COMPIlTION RF!mRT
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT (1N. 3139-MA)
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFiTS (MS MILLIONI
2006   2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016   2017   2018    2019    2020   2021
Bcncfils /I
Rubber                          287.4   286.8   280.1   269.5   237.8   204.4   189.1   182.3   183.3   170.1   158.0  161.6  161.8   159.6   129.1   108.3
Oil Palm                         17.8    17.0    16.7    16.0    15.7    15.0   14.7   13.9    13.7    12.9    12.6    11.9    11.6   10.9   10.6   10.3
Salc of Rubberwood /2           -       -       -       -       -        -       -
Sublolal                305.2   303.8   296.8   285.5   253.5   219.4  203.8   196.2   197.0   183.0   170.6  173.5   173.4   170.5   139.7   118.6
&sIs /1
On-Fann Cosis ofRubber/3        114.3   108.8   106.3   104.2   101.1    97.8   94.3   91.5    88.5    85.6    82.0   79.3   75.3   71.2    64.7   59.2
On-Farm Costs of Oil Palm /3     8.4     7.9     7.7      7.3     7.1     6.8    6.5    6.1       5.9     5.1     4.7    4.1      3.8      3.3    3.1    3.0
Infrastructurc Cons. & Mainicnance   0.5  0.5    0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5    0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5     0.5     0.5     0.5    0.5      0.5    0.5
Vchicles (Capital & Opcr. Costs)  0.5    0.5     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5    0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5     0.5     0.5    0.5      0.5     0.5    0.5
Subtotal                123.7   117.7   115.0   112.5   109.2   105.6  101.8   98.6   95.4    91.7    87.7   84.4   80.1    75.5    68.8   63.2
P
C 
o0 
c 



IBRD 25169R
00                                                                  102'                                                                    104'
MALAYSIA
PENINSULAR MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
> -)\                                                         *      RISDA Ste Offices
*     RISDA Training Institutes
A     ESPEK - Managed Rubber Nureri,s
AL   ESPEK - Managed Scheme 1959 Estates
,   t 4                                                                                                          Q>   ESPEK - Managed Egtotes
E            -'T> Kontr\G.GENTING.        T H A  I L A  N  D             .                                                    KKSR - Managed Polm Oil Mills
R:LArkawi          '                                                                 -K(-' Bohru                                  STATE CAPITALS
AJor Setor           5                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
6- 6'              r                           zSTATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                       6
I                       J                 r \ ) J                                                  _   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.    Ak        K          I                        A                                       0    20    30    40    50    60
BUKIT                                          GADING                                          I I       I     I         I
PERAK                                           GALOH         JALAN KUALAILOMETERS
BERANG  LAkIOMTR
Georgetwn; 'Bterot                                                         BUKITO
Geor  , C Butterworth                                             SIREH *                                 Kuala
P P/NA FIG                                                                                     GERDONG           Trengganu
PADANG
* RENGAS
GUNUNG
ATUNGGAL
OPOH
BK. KOTA
DURIAN MAS
ULU SLIM  0
L.
4-                                                 CHANGAT                                                 GAMBANGA                                                    A-
K  SULAMAj A                      Q  ULU CHEKA                                  ua
> o~~~~~~~~~~~ SERIGALA                                                                           Kuonton
01
A A KG. AWAH
LA
ThIs map has been  arporsd                               WISMA                KADIR
by The World  Santa stff                                  RISDA
toisneyfr the con"nenhrce                                   *         0
af read es and  is far the                                *  f eKUALA                       OBERA
nternal us of The Worfd a                                    ho    LUMPUR          BK    O
Qraup.The denomlnahaons used
and the  boundaris shown                                                         KERAMAE
an this M% do noat Imply on the                             lmKEAA
part of Th World lanm Group,
any judqment an the ego1                                                                         0
rtatys orfany te 0y                                                                        PALONC            EQ0 ULU KERATONG
such boundores.                                                       Serembon
100                                                                       0INAS
t    THAILkND  E\1 0AY?                                                                                     A  A           EQ         0  ULU SEDILI
PA'A                                     KG            ABAT
I VIET                                              OMZA                     SG  0    SEKIJANG
A     NAM                                                 Mela oko               CHALES
\*/(  /   _                                 ;-^.                ~~~~~~~~~~~KESANG;
-, <-,   /  '       PHILIPPINEj      -      -                  PAJAK
/      SOUTH                     *                                                             Batu Pahot
bR ' ~~~~CHINA X ,_
CSHIA                             V                                                                    0  ULU SANGLANG
BRUNO          '
AeALAYSIA        ,#'\                                               '                                                           JOHOR
'' tuoo   mo r  \  MAL4tSIAA                                     -                                             BAHRU      ;
~4~,,mpur                                   INDONESIA                                                                      n
' Cm o'LurnGAPOur  !-%;.       -              i        (Sumatera)                                                               (SINGAPORE)
L x          I N DO  N ES I A                                               102                                                                    104'
JUNE 1994









-   i      ;  . 
. 1~~~~~~ I   I ~      ~           ~            :



