Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,AS  3 / - yA'
Report No. 8029-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
NOVEMBER 16, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officicl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency U-.i' = Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00       - M$ 2.70 (As of August 1989)
M$ i.'o       - US$0.37
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)        = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)     - 2.47 acre (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)    = 2.2 pound (lb)
1 metric ton (ton) - 1,000 kg = 2,200 lb
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPO       - Crude Palm Oil
ERR       - Economic Rate of Return
ESPEK     - Estet Pekebun Kecil Sdn Bhd
FELCRA    - Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA     -  Federal Land Development Authority
ffb       - Fresh Fruit Bunches of Oil Palm
GOM       - Government of Malaysia
IER       -  Impact Evaluation Report
MAMPU     - Malaysian Administration Modernization Planning Unit
HARDEC    - Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation
MIS       - Management Information System
MRELB     - Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board
NARSCO    - National Rubber Smallholders Cooperative
OED       - Operations Evaluation Department
PK        - Palm Kernel
PORIM     - Palm Oil Research Institute of Malaysia
PORLA     - Palm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority
PPAR      - Project Performance Audit Report
RIRB      - Rubber Industry Replanting Board
RISDA     - Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
RRIM      - Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................... .. iv-v
I.  SECTORAL CONTEXT       .       ............................... ....     1
Agriculture in the Malaysian Economy               ....  1
Rubber Smallholder Sector .............. .......................    3
Bank Sector Experience and Strategy ............................    4
II.  RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALIHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA) 5..... 
RISDA's Mandate and Activities                  . . .                   5 
Current Organizational Arrangements ........................... .       5
Organization and Management Issues and Proposed
Reorganization .............................................. .    7
Financing                           .. .. 7
Replanting Grant ...............................................    9
Systems of Replanting         .    .........................................   10
Agricultural Inputs Program .       . ..................................   11
Replanting Performance .        ........................................   12
Performance of Bank-Financed RISDA Operations           . . .    13
III. THE PROJECT .................... 13
Project_ Orgi  .................................................    13........
Project Origin ..... 13
Rationale for Bank Involvement                  .         ..   13
Project Objectives and Main Features .......                .          14
Detailed Project Description                   ...  14
Agricultural Development                  . . .    14
Institutional Development                  . . .    16
Project Costs                          ...   17
Financing                            ...   18
Procurement                           ...   19
Disbursement                          ...   20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Malaysia in March/April 1989. The mission comprised Messrs. S.Z. Husain, K.
Templeton, R..Ng, C. Maguire and V. Raswant (consultant). The mission was
also briefly assisted by Messrs. J. Roman and H. Darmawi.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Page No.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................... ...... .    .... .        21
Status of Preparation and Implementation Arrangements    ..   21
Project Coordination and Organization                .      .        22
RISDA's Reorganization and Strengthening            .       .        22
Accounts and Audit .............................................  26
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting               ..                27
V.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES ..................  27
Crop Technology ................................................  27
Crop Production, Processing and Marketing .       .....................  29
International and Domestic Market Prospects ...................  30
Commodity Prices         ...............................  31
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................  31
Benefits .......................................................  31
Financial ^nalysis                   .......... 31
Economic A-alysis               ..................  32
Environmental Effects              .................  33
Impact on Women               ................... 33
Risks                         .......... 34
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......................... 3}
TEXT TABLES
Table 3.1   Project Cost Summary .       . ...................................  18
Table 3.2   Financing Plan .......................................         19
Table 3.3   Procurement Arrangements .      . ...............................  20
Table 6.1   Farm Income .......................................            32
ANNEXES
1.  RISDA's Organizational Chart .....................................  37
2.  RISDA's Field Level Organization .................................  38
3.  RISDA's Future Replanting Program ................................  39
4.  RISDA's Financial Condition ......................................  48
5.  Breakdown of Grant Payment by Crop ...............................  57
6.  Processing Steps for RISDA's Field Programs
6.1  Flow Chart of Processing Steps for Replanting .58
6.2  Flow Chart of Rehabilitation Process .59
6.3  Flow Chart of Agricultural Inputs Program .60



i                                 ~~~~~~~- iii -
Page No.
l
7. T&^x/Subsidy Implications of Replarsting Cess/Grants
and Export Duties  ....................  61
8.  Total Area Replanted (lst and 2nd 1ound) and New planted
to Various Crops (1953-1988) . ....... * .................  66
9.  Sunmary of RISDA Components in Bank-Financed Projects    ...   67
10. Computerization of RISDA's Management Information System (MIS) ...  68
11. Human Resource Development and Training Component        ...    70
12. Terms of Reference (TORs) for Project Studies
12.1  TORs for a Study of Mini-estates ...........................    91
12.2  TORs for a Study of Cooperatives and NARSCO ................  93
12.3  TORs for a Study of Schemes 1956 and 1959 ..................  96
12.4  TORs for a Study of the Muar Computerization Project .......  98
12.5  TORs for a Study of a Monitoring and Evaluation System ..... 101
13. Cost Tables
13.1 Project Components by Year .................................. 103
13.2 Custs of Replanting and Maintenance ......................... 104
13.3 Agricultural Inputs Program        ................... 105
13.4 Costs of Management Facilities          ................ 106
13.5 Costs of Staff Training and Technical Assistance ............1 07
14. Schedule of Loan Disbursements         .................... 108
15. Proposed Field Level Reorganization of RISDA         .... . .   109
16. Rationalization of RISDA's Activities .          ........................... 115
17. Supervision Plan:  Bank Supervision Mission Schedule  . ........ 121
18. Crop Yield Profiles ..............................................  122
19. Commodity Prices
19.1 Derivation of Rubber Economic Farmgate Prices ............... 123
19.2 Derivation of Oil Palm Economic Farmgate Prices ............. 124
20. Economic Costs and Benefite               .................. 125
21. Supporting Documents Available in Project File   .       ........... 128
MAP IBRD 21617



- iv -
MAYSA
RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLUOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA) PROJECT
Loan and Prolect u5marY
Borrower:                        Malaysia
Beneficiaries:                   RISDAs about 104,000 rubber smallholders
Loan Amountt                     US$71.0 Million
Termss                           Seventeen years, including a five-year grace
period, at the Bank's standard variable
lnterest rate.
Onlending Terms                  From the Borrower to RISDAs US$62.4 million
equivalent as Srants and US$8.6 million
equivalent onlent at 4Z p.a. interest rate,
repayable in 25 years, lncluding a 10-year
interest-free grace period.
Prolect Description:             The project would support RISDA's agricultural
program and help implement its reorganization
and institutional development efforts over the
period 1990-92. Agricultural suppor would
include: (i) replanting of 101,500 ha of old
rubber; maintenance during immaturity of this
area and an additional 106.100 ha replanted
prior to the project; rehabilitation of 7,500
hat agricultural inputs, mainly for crop areas
already in production; and supplemental support
for mini-estates; Cii) construction and
maintenance of about 300 km of agricultural
access roads; and tiII) extension and
smallholder training. Institutional
strengthening would be achieved through:
ti) provision of management facilities and
vehicles, including equipment to assist in
computerizing RISDA's management information
system; Ci') staff training; and Ciii) studies.
Benefits and Risk:               The project would increase the productivity and
incomes of about 104,000 rubber smallholders
who constitute Malaysia's biggest poverty
group, as well as raise export earnings.
primarily from rubber. The project would also
improve public sector management by
strengthening RISDA's operational ffficiency,
which over time would result in more effective
support to the rubber smallholder sector. The
main project risk relates to effective
implementation of institutional reforms
envisaged under the project. To minimize this



- v -
risk, efforts were made during project
preparation and appraisal to achieve consensus
on basic principles, and a feasible step-by-
step approach has been adopted. Already agreed
institutional measures will be complemented by
studies which will lay the basis for future
actions, and sufficient lead time has been
allowed for each stage of institutional change.
Estimated Cost
Local        Foreign         Total
-----------(US $ million)--------
Replanting and Maintenance            95.5           51.4          146.9
Rehabilitation                         2.1            1.2            3.3
Agricultural Inputs                    7.5            9.2           16.7
Supplementary Costs of
Mini-estates                        21.4            3.8           25.2
Infrastructure                         1.8            1.0            2.8
Extension and Smallholder
Training                             3.5           0.4             3.9
Management Facilities                  0.9            3.4            4.3
Staff Training                         0.3            0.8            1.1
Studies                                  -            0.3            0.3
Base Costs                      133.0          71.5           204.5
Physical Contingencies                   -            0.4            0.4
Price Contingencies                    0.4            1.4            1.8
Total Project Costs 1/          133.4          73.3           206.7
Financing Plan
IBRD                                     -          71.0            71.0
Government                            38.4            2.3           40.7
Rubber Smallholders 2!                95.0              -           95.0
Total                           133 4          73.3           206.7
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY          1990        1991       1992      1993       1994
-----------------(US$ million)----------------
Annual              0.3        11.7       21.0       30.0       8.0
Cumulative          0.3        12.0       33.0      63.0       71.0
Economic Rate of Return: 14Z
Hap    IBRD 21617
1/ Including taxes and duties of US$4.5 million equivalent.
2/ Through replarting cess payments.



i                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~- i -
MALAYSIA
RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY (RISD.A) PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Agriculture in the Malaysian Economy
1.1      Malaysia's agricultural sector (including forestry, livestock and
fishing) continues to play a key role in the economy, although its relative
importance is naturally declining as the country proceeds towards
industrialization. In 1988, the sector's share of GDP was 212, down from 24Z
in 1980. The share of sectoral employment fell from about 402 of the total
emplnyed labor force in 1980 to 312 in 1988. Nonetheless, Malaysia's
agricultural growth rate has been high by any standards. During the 19608 and
much of the 1970s, real output grew at 72 per aanum. This rate slowed in the
early 1980s to 2.8Z per annum (1981-1985), largely as a result of decelerating
expansion of the land frontier, which in turn is traceable to reduced public
expendittire programs broaght on by falling world commodity prices and their
negative impact on Government revenue. The rate of agricultural growth picked
up again in 1986 (42) and has been sustained in 1967 and 1988 (7.4Z and 3.67,
respectively), mainly due to the upturn in world commodity prices. Malayaia
is the world's largest producer and exporter of rubber and palm oil. In 1988,
it accounted for about 33? of the world's natural rubber output and 42Z of
exports, and 592 of the world's palm oil production and 732 of exports.  These
two commodities, respectively, accounted for 9? and 8Z of the value of
Malaysia's total merchandise exports in that year. Malaysia is also a major
exporter of wood products, which accounted for about 11? of merchandise
exports in 1988.
1.2      Sector Composition.  About one-third of Peninsular (West) Malaysia
and 8? of East Malaysia are under cultivation; most of the remaining area is
under tropical forest or secondary regrowth. The total cultivated area is
estimated to be about 5 million hectares. Malaysia's climate and soil
conditions provide a strong comparative advantage for tree crops, which are
planted on about 4 million ha (rubber, 1.9 million, oil palm, 1.7 million,
cocoa and coconut, 0.3 million each). Padi accounts for another 0.6 million
ha and the balance is devoted to minor crops. Rubber's share of cropped area
has declined from 66Z in 1960 to about 38Z by 1988 and, although it is still
the largest crop area, it is being overtaken by oil palm which has expanded
over the same period from 2? to 342 of total crop acreage. Cocoa area has
also expanded rapidly from 2,000 ha in 1960 to 357,000 ha by 1988, but the
rate of new planting has fallen off in recent years because of weak world
prices.  Food production has generally stagnated and interest in coconuts has
declined, as farm incomes have not been competitive with those from high value
tree crops or off-farm work. Padi production in particular has fallen
steadily.
1.3      Tree Crops Performance.  Malaysian average tree crop yields are
higher than those of its competitors. Although the natural production
advantages of the southeast Asian producers are broadiy similar, Malaysia has



-2-
achieved preoeminence in production of tree crops because of Governmentvs
commitment to the development of these crops; strong institutional performance
in research. extension and marketing services; and the influence and example
of a relatively large and progressive estate sector. The high yields and wiCde
use of advanced technology result in significantly low production costs
despite relatively high labor costs. Although Malaysia is expected to retain
its strong position in tree crop exports, it needs to focus on productivity
improvements to reduce costs and close the gap in performance between private
estates and smallholders. This will involve both assisting unorganixed'
smallholders, primarily through the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development
Authority (RISDA), and organizing smallholders into quasi-estate arrangements,
primarily through the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) and Federal
Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA).
1.4      Diversification.  Since the Malaysian economy is quite sensitivmi to
developments in the international rubber and palm oil markets, the potential
advantages of diversification have been obvious to policymakers for some time
and quite substantial resources have been invested in diversificatiun
programs.11 Diversification within the tree crop group has been very
successful over the past 20 years (from rubber to oil palm, co:oa and coffee),
but diversification into annual food crops has had only mixed results.
Despite the relatively high subsidy for food production, the long-run average
returns to growers still favor unprotected tree crops. Padi, which has been
the focus of the Government's food security program, erjoys free fertilizer,
subsidized credit, guaranteed purchase prices and other transfers, but
production continues to fall. The Government is now reviewing the problems
and the need for adjustments in the padi and rice industry.2/
Diversification possibilities for %blaysia seem limited, given its climate and
soils, but would include some fruits and vegetables.  Howivar, progress over
the medium-term in these crops will be quite slow, at major efforts are needed
to develop suitable production and post-harvest technologies, particularly for
fruits.
1.5      Employment and Incomes.  The Government's 1984 Household Income
Survey estimated that 864,000 households, 32Z of the national total of 2.6
million, were primariiy employed in farming. Some 155,000 were rubber
smallholders, 116,000 padi growers, 100,OOC oil palm growers, 81,000 estate
workers, and the rest divided among mixed farming and fishing. To these must
be added large numbers of immigrant laborers in both padi and tree crops.
Whereas padi growers are almost entirely individual smallholders with less
than 3 ha each, the tree crops subsector is divided between a declining number
of large private estates and an expanding number of government-sponsored
schemes for smallholders operating individually or on quasi-estates.
1.6      The incidence of poverty was estimated at about 201 in rural areas in
1987, compared with only about 5Z in urban areas. Rural poverty is most
prevalent among padi, rubber and coconut smallholders, fishermen and shifting
cultivators. However, the incidence of rural poverty has declined
significantly (by about two-thirds) from its level in 1970, under the impact
of expanding government-sponsored tree crops schemes and accelerating
industrialization which has increased farm family incomes through access to
off-farm work.
11 Malaysia - An Assessment of Agricultural Diversification Prospects,
Report No. 6226-MA, September 17, 1986.
2/ Malaysia - Review of the Rice Industry, Report No. 7395-MA, November
29, 1988.



-3-
Rubber Smallholder Sector
1.7      Characteristics.  Rubber production in Malaysia grew rapidly in the
sixties and through the mid-seventies. Thereafter, frrjs 1977 to 1985, both
production and exports stagnated at about 1.5 million tons anually. However,
because of the upturn in world rubber prices since 1986, Malaysia's rubber
production increased to 1.58 and 1.65 million tons in 1987 and 1988,
respectively. Over the past 25 years, there has been a significant change in
the rela;ive importance of the large, private rubber estate sector, vis-a-vis
rubber smallholders. The estates' contribution to national rubber production
fell from about 60Z in 1965 to about 29? in 1988, while the contribution of
the rubber smallholder sector increased from 40? to about 71? over the same
period.
1.8      The rubber smallholder sector is defined to include all holdings up
to 40 ha. However, about 612 of smallholders applying to RISDA for replanting
grants have farms of less than 2 ha (with the majority having holdings of less
than 1.2 ha) and own 342 of total land devoted to smallholder rubber; 292 have
farms between 2 and 4 ha and own 372 of total land; and only 1OZ have farms
over 4 ha and own 29Z of total land. In 1984, the total number of smallholder
households which derived their living primarily from rubber was 155,000
(para. 1.5), thus making rubber smallholders the largest group in agriculture.
They are also the biggest poverty group in the country, accounting for about
one-third of the rural poor in 1987. The total area under smallholder rubber
in 1988 was about 1.2 million ha in peninsular Malaysia and about 0.3 million
ha in Sabah and Sarawak. The majority of rubber smallholders operate their
own farms; however, part-time, seasonal off-farm jobs and sharecropping are
common.
1.9      Institutional Framework.  The Ministry of Primary Industries is the
main Federal policy-making body for rubber, oil palm, cocoa and some other
export-' primary commodities. It also controls technical and regulatory
institutions such as the Malaysian Rubber Resear:'L and Development Board
(MRRB), Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia   .:LM), Malaysian Rubber
Exchange and Licensing Board (MRELB), Palm Oil   search Institute of Malaysia
(PORIM) and Palm Oil Registration and Licensing Authority (PORLA). However,
the principal implementing institutions in the primary commodities sector are
under other ministries: RISDA (Chapter II) and FELDA are under the Ministry
of Lands and Regional Development, while FELCRA is under the Ministry of
National and Rural Development. The Ministry of Primary Industries and RRIM
are represented on RISDA's Board of Directors. The RRIM is also clo&ely
associated with RISDA through a Technical Committee of staff of the two
agencies, which reviews and selects promising innovative technology for
adoption by small farmers or group farmin£ systems and arranges for its
testing and demonstration by RISDA under RRIM guidance.
1.10     Future Prospects.  Given the present and projected relative prices of
rubber and palm oil, the rate of conversion from rubber to oil palm in the
estate sector may be slowed. Rubber is generally the crop choice for areas of
broken terrain and less fertile soils, and, therefore, is Xhe most appropriate
crop for replanting in the northern areas of the Peninsula. It also has the
advantages of familiarity for many smallholders and less price volatility than
palm oil (over 1981-87, the average of annual changes was 28? for palm oil
compared to about 17? for rubber). Finally, rubber is also more suitable for



- 4 -
smallholder marketing than is oil palm, which is a plantation-type crop
requiring nearby processing facilities. Malaysia's comparative advantage in
rubber is expected to continue: costs of production are estimated at US$650 -
7001ton (for RSS 1), compared to the average 1988 world price of USS 1,290/ton
and projected 1995 and 2000 prices of US$1,326 and 1,249/ton, respectively, in
1988 constant dollars. Labor costs, which account for 60-70Z of rubber
production costs (compared with about 30'. of crude palm oil production costs),
may be the major issue for rubber over time. Malaysia's cost of tapping
already is approximately twice that of Indonesia and Thailand. Nonetheless,
given the large differential in productivity, real wage increases should not
signifi..antly erode Malaysia's competitive edge in rubber in the foreseeable
future. Further, there are still potentially important cost reductions which
can be realized (e.g., through the adoption of less frequent tapping systems
with stimulation).
1.11     Government Strategy.  While Government has encouraged diversification
away from rubber to oil palm, cocoa and other crops in the past and been
successful (paras. 1.2 and 1.4), it realizes the risk of depending too much on
palm oil exports, given the volatility of world palm oil prices (para. 1.10).
It, therefore, aims to maintain a significant presence in the world rubber
market. The most significant element of the strategy is assistance to
smallholders through RISDA in replanting old rubber, although the funding of
the program is largely through replanting cesses paid by smallholders (para.
2..2).  Through 1988, about 980,000 ha of old smallholder rubber (out of a
total 1.2 million ha registered with RISDA) had been replanted. The
Government now envisages an acceleration of the replanting rate to about
40,000 ha p.a. in the 1990s, compared to about 31,000 ha p.a. over 1981-88,
so that the backlog of smallholder rubber areas never replanted could be
cleared by the end of the 1990s.
Bank Sector Experience and Strategy
1.12     To date, the Bank has made 26 agricultural loans, amounting to
US$918.5 million, or nearly 452 of total lending to t-Malaysia. Of these, the
most successful have been the loans in the tree crops subsector. Seven loans
have been made to FELDA to assist implementation of its land settlement
schemes, based on tree crop development. Six of these have been completed.
Five Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) and an Impact Evaluation Report
(IER) 3/ by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) concluded that all
these projects were successful in meeting their objectives. Achievements in
land development, crop yields, income and economic returns were satisfactory.
Resultq from one FELCRA project were also quite good, and a second one is now
underway. The experience with RISDA components in Bank-financed projects is
discussed in para. 2.27.
1.13     There have also been notable acbievements in large scale irrigation
projects (e.g., the Muda Irrigation Projects financed under Loans 434-MA and
1717-MA, which have led to a doubling of cropping intensity, increased yields
and strong institutional development). However, success has been mixed among
area development projects, which usually focussed on existing small farms
producing foodcrops, particularly rice. Problems have included smallness of
farm size and shortage of irrigation water leading to out-migration of labor.
5/ PPAR Nos. 2122, 3024, 3978, 4221 and 5780. IER No. 5988: Malaysia -
First, Second and Third Jengka Triangle Projects.



-5-
Government policy continues to support new land development as well as
development of older areas, particularly smallholder rubber areas with
entrenched rural poverty.  Bank financing for agriculture will conzinue to
support productivity improvement in older areas, completioin and consolidation
of land settlement schemes, forestry and environmental management, crop
diversification, institutional improvement and polity changes to foster
increased agricultural efficiency.
II. RUBBER INDUSTRY SMALLHOLDERS DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (RISDA)
RISDA's Mandate and Activities
2.1      Concerned about the relatively large number of poor rubber
smallholders, the Government initiated efforts to improve their socio-economic
status by establishing the Rubber Industry Replanting Board (RXRB) in 1952.
RIRB assisted rubber producers to replant their low yielding and debilitated
trees with higher yielding materials and, through 1972, about 600,000 ha of
old rubber had been replanted. Efforts to alleviate poverty among rubber
smallholders were intensified by the establishment of RISDA in 1972, which
took over the duties and functions of RIRB beginning January 1, 1973. RISDA
was also expected to introduce innovations in rubber replanting technology for
smallholders, through cooperation with research agencies; cooperate with other
national agencies responsible for extension, agricultural credit, and
processing and marketing of rubber; undertake related activities to improve
the socio-economic status of smallholders; maintain statistics pertaining to
the smallholder sector; and execute any other activity indicated by the
Minister.
2.2      Since RISDA's mandate is exceptionally broad, it has undertakern a
wide range of activities, which, inter alia, have included:
(a) developmental activities (assistance for replanting, development
of mini-estates, extension, infrastructure construction, provision
of smallholder credit and administration of input supply schemes);
(b) commercial activities (marketing of rubber, rubber processing and
product factories, rubber smokehouses, palm oil processing and
refining mills, planting material nurseries and oil palm and
rubber production on estates); and
(c)  so_ial activities (cooperative development, scholarships for
smallholders' children, nursery schools, hostels, educational
loans, insurance schemes, etc.).
The organizational structure to handle these diverse tasks is extremely
complex, including not only RISDA itself, but also subsidiaries and
cooperatives.
Current Organizational Arrangements
2.3      Head Office Organization.  Management of RISDA is vested in a Board
of Directors appointed by the Mirister of Lands and Regional Development.
The Director General (DG) reports to the Board and has the overall
responsibility for implementing policy and for the day-to-day administrati^n.



He is supported by two Deputy Director Generals (DDGs) for Operations and
Administration, and 11 State Directors (Annex 1).
2.4      The Field Organization.  The direct responsibility for
implementation of RISDA's field programs rests with the State Directors
(SDs). Regional Officers reporting to the SDs are responsible for approving
all applications for replanting grants and input subsidies. The Regional
Office is the lowest accounting unit in RISDA. District Officers reporting
to the Regional Officers control the stores and are responsible for
coordination of field activities through Station Ofiicers, each of whom
supervises on average seven to eight Extension Officers. There is thus a
five-tier field structure involving 11 State Offices, 23 Regional Offices, 83
District Offices, 179 Stations (or one District Office supervising every two
Stations), and 1,300 extension staff. Annex 2 shows an indicative field
organization, although there are considerable variations in arrangements
throughout the country.
2.5      Staffing.  As of April 1989, RISDA's total staff strength stood at
5,113, of which 1,159 (232) were located in the Head Office and the balance
3,954 in the field. An analysis of the total staff strength indicates that
the proportion of professional staff and diploma holders is low at about
12.5Z. There are only 250, or 5Z, professional and managerial staff and 393,
or 7.5Z, diploma holders. About 65Z of the total staff are
technical/extension (including those attached to mini-estates) and clerical
(including typists), with the former accounting for about 35Z.
2.6      Subsidiaries.  RISDA has also established four subsidiaries:
(a) Estet Pekebun Kecil Sdn Bhd (ESPEK); (b) Syarikat Gabongan RISDA/Ketengah
Sendirian Berhad (KRIS); (c) Smallholder Development Corporation Sdn Bhd
(SHDC); and (d) the discontinued Smallholder Edible Oil Sdn Bhd. All of
these are, or were, -egistered as private limited companies. ESPEK was
originally establisnLd to both own and manage plantations and palnm oil mills,
but so far it has operated as a management company only. KRIS owns and
operates a palm oil mill; SHDC was formed to provide inputs to smallholders;
and Smallholder Edible Oil Sdn Bhd was involved in refining palm oil. While
many commercial activities have been carried out by these subsidiaries,
others (e.g., marketing, operation of rubber smokehouses, and nurseries and
estates under Schemes 1956 and 1959) have been undertaken directly by RISDA
itself.
2.7      Cooperatives.  Having initiated 63 smallholder District level
cooperatives, RISDA maintains very close operational linkages with the apex
body to the cooperatives--the National Rubber Smallholders Cooperative
(NARSCO), which reports to the Department of Cooperatives under the Ministry
of National and Rural Development. NARSCO, though technically not a
subsidiary of RISDA, is very closely aligned with ,t: RISDA is a shareholder
of NARSCO; the Director General of RISDA is the Chaiiian of NARSCO's Board of
Directors; and the Deputy Director General Administration of RISDA is
NARSCO's Managing Director. NARSCO's activities are as diverse as those of
RISDA. While NARSCO is engaged in input supply and marketing, its
subsidiaries are engaged in real estate development, insurance and travel and
rubber glove manufacturing.



-7-
Organization and Management Issues and Proposed Reorganization
2.8      RTSDA's gradual expansion over time into multifarious activities
(para. 2.2) has not been accompanied by appropriate organizational changes
and staff training, and this has resulted in considerable institutional
stresses. RISDA's main organizational problems include: (a) excessive
centralization at the level of Xhe Director General (DG), with 15 senior
staff reporting to him directly, and lack of a clear functioning line of
command from the Head Office to the field level; (b) lack of coordination and
inconsistency of policies, arising mainly due to placement of functionally-
related Divisions under different lines of command; (c) a cumbersome and
duplicative five-tier field organization; (d) involvement of the extension
staff in a wide range of activ;iies thereby reducing their technical
effectiveness; (e) reduced overall effectiveness due to RISDA's involvement
in commercial as well as developmental and social activities; (f) lack of
manpower planning; (g) inadequate controls arising from deficient operating
procedures; and (h) inadequate policy direction and performance monitoring of
RISDA's own programs and those of its subsidiaries. These institutional
issues, which wil be addressed by the project, are discussed in doitail in
paras. 4.5 - 4.13.
2.9      In view of the above problems, the Government has been analyzing
RISDA's institutional situation for some time. The Public Services
Department (PSD), which is part of the Prime Minister's Department, and is
responsible for reorganization of Government ministries and agencies,
conducted a study of RISDA in 1988 and made reorganization recommendations.
The institutional analysis of RISDA was further developed during preparation
and appraisal of the proposed project. In March 1989, the Government
established a Task Force for the Re-evaluation of Functions and Organization
of RISDA. The Task Force submitted its draft report in June 1989 to a
Steering Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Lands and Regional Development
and comprising representatives from other concerned ministries and agencies.
The Task Force is now finalizing the report.
2.10     It is expected that the thrust of RISDA's reorganization and
strengthening would be to redirect the agency's efforts towards activities
primarily relating to rubber replanting and extension. RISDA would no longer
be involved in implementation of unrelated social and economic activities,
but only in identifying the needs and facilitating work by other Government
(or non-Governn.ent) agencies responsible for those areas. In addition,
actions would be taken to divest RISDA of some activities, strengthen its
capabilities in specific areas, and institute a monitoring mechanism to
assess its effectiveness over time. The specific institutional changes
envisaged are detailed in paras. 4.5 - 4.13. The Government has already
started the process of reorganizing RISDA, beginning with a change in RISDA's
top management in May 1989.
Financing
2.11     Because of serious management problems in the early 1980s, for which
some corrective action has already been taken, RISDA is still behind in its
auditing schedule (see further paras. 4.16 - 4.17), with only accounts
through 1986 having so far been audited. As of December 31, 1987, based on
unaudited accounts, RISDA's total assets amounted to M$757.4 million, of



- 8 -
which fixed assets (M$55 million) and investments in plantations
(M$19l million) accounted for 72 and 252, respectively; smallholder and
other accounts (M$401 million) accounted for 53S; and bank accounts (M1111
million) for about 152. The unaudited accounts indicate that RISDA remains a
reasonably liquid organization, although it still faces problems of
underloverstated assets and weak operating controls, as detailed in Annex 4.
The Government and RISDA are expected to have fully resolved these problems
over the next few years.
2.12     RISDA's primary source of funds is a rubber replanting cess,
accounting for about 60Z of all replanting expenditures, followed by direct
Government budgetary allocations. This cess of M$99/ton (and also a research
cess of M$38.50/ton) is levied on all rubber exports. In 1988, replanting
cess collections were about MS 150 million. Of these, about MS 50 million
were to be refunded to the estate sector, leaving about MS 100 million for
replanting by smallholders. Government grants covered the remaining 402 of
replanting grants and the full cost of RISDA's agricultural inputs program,
rehabilitation, smallholder development centers, infrastructure development,
extension, vehicles and equipment and RISDA's administrative costs.
Government loans to RISDA are at 4Z p.a. interest for 25 years, including a
10-year interest-free grace period, and cover supplementary mini-estate
development costs, mini-estate housing schemes and processing and marketing.
Government budgetary allocation for RISDA's development program was about
M$67 million in 1988 and M$137 million in 1989 and the operating budget was
M$78 million in 1988 and M$70 million in 1989.
2.13     Since the present value of the replanting cess paid over the
productive life of trees exceeds the present value of the replanting grant
(para. 2.17), theoretically there should be no need for Government
contributions and the cess fund should be self-financing. However, the cess
fund was established in 1952 when significant rubber areas already needed
replanting, although no cess had previously been paid. Therefore, initial
funds were contributed by Government, although by 1977, RISDA had achieved a
higbly liquid position: 802 more was collected from the replanting cess than
was paid to rubber producers for replanting. Nonetheless, subsequent
investments in a variety of undertakings and loans to smallholders in late
1970s and early 1980s resulted in deficits which had to be covered by
Treasury subventions. At about the same time the Government decided to
increase the -eplanting rate to clear the backlog of areas never replanted,
and this also increased the extent of RISDA's operating deficit. The
replanting rate increased from an average 20,000 ha p.a. in the late 1970s to
about 31,000 ha p.a. over 1981-88.
2.14     As of end-1988, there were about 300,000 ha of registered
smallholder rubber which had never been replanted; in addition, 179,000 ha
were ready for second-round replanting. An acceleration of the replanting
rate to about 40,000 ha p.a., with provision for up to 25,000 ha p.a. of
first-round replanting and the balance of not less than 15,000 ha p.a. of
second-round replanting, should enable the backlog of never replanted areas,
for which the owners may still maintain an interest in rubber production, to
be cleared by the end of the 1990s. However, since rubber exports are
projected to grow to only about 1.8 million tons by year 2000 (compared with
1.5 million tons in 1988) and assuming that the replanting cess rate remains
at its present level, the replanting cess collections would be inadequate to
cover 40,000 ha p.a. The accelerated replanting program would, therefore,



-9-
necessitate continued Government contributions early into the next century.
From the year 2009 onwards, the replanting cess colections shouli be
sufficient to cover the required second- and third-round replanting,
averaging 22,000 ha p.a. (Annex 3), assuming that the present relationship
between the replanting cess rate and replanting grant continues.
Replanting Grant
2.15     The system of replanting grant, funded by a replanting cess levied
on all exported rubber (para. 2.12), was established to ensure replanting of
old and low yielding rubber and thereby the continual rejuvenation of the
industry. Smallholder areas are eligible for the grant at a frequency of not
less than 20 years, provided they are regictered as rubber growing areas.
The grant may be utilized for replanting old rubber, either with rubber or
any of 18 other crops (Annex 5). among which oil palm is the most popular
alternative. As they no longer pay cesses, farmers choosing crops other than
rubber lose the right to future replanting grants and RISDA services three to
four years after planting (i.e., when grant payments for those crops are
completed).
2.16     The grant is paid in installments of both cash and kind over the
development period of the crop (7-8 years for rubber, 4 years for oil palm
and 4-5 years for other crops). The grant finances the average estimated
costs of the standard agricultural inputs over the immature period of the
crop and a part of the imputed labor costs. The amount of the grant has
varied over the years according to the kind of crop and size of the replant.
Currently the value of the grant for replants up to 4 ha is M$ 5,436/ha for
rubber and M$ 3,7071ha for oil palm and other crops, reflecting the
considerably shorter immaturity period of the latter. Details are given in
Annex 5. The grant rates are less for replants from 4 to 40 ha. Installment
payments depend initially on the stage reached in land preparation and
planting, and later on the stage of growth of the crop, each stage being
subject to confirmation by RISDA field inspectors and their report of a
satisfactory standard of field conditions particularly in respect to the
maintenance of the crop. After en initial determination that an area is
registered as a rubber area, approval for the grant fo.lows careful
researching of the validity of the land title and any crop limitations that
it might carry as well as a satisfactory field report from RISDA's
inspectors. There are 17 defined steps prior to the first grant payment;
these are spread over at least 5-1/2 months, if there are no difficulties
with the land title, including a period of three months for land preparation.
A flow chart of the processing steps from farmers' application to payment of
the first grant installment for replanting is given in Annex 6.1.
2.17     Though the replanting cess has some distortionary effect on resource
allocation (Annex 7. paras. 2 and 3), the distortions appear to have been
minor and the system has worked well in Malaysia over the years compared to
other countries, which have relied on alternative approaches of financing of
replanting programs from general Governmeat revenues or by credit. It has
played a significant role in ensuring replanting of large areas of old rubber
(para. 2.25), in improving smallholder productivity (para. 2.26) and in
alleviating poverty in the smallholder sector. A significant feature of the
Malaysian system is the choice available to farmers to replant old rubber
with any of the 19 eligible crops, subject to agro-climatic suitability. The
resulting crop mix has, therefore, been responsive to market signals (para.



- 10 -
2.25 and Annex 8). Another important point to note is that the replanting
grant' and other programs, such as the agricultural inputs program (para.
2.24), are not subsidized. On the contrary, for a smallholder who typically
did not start with a planting grart, the present value of payments of
replanting cess and rubber export duties over the productive life of trees
(about 25 years) far exceeds the present value of the replanting grant"
(Anrex 7). The 3ystem, therefore, actually results in a net tax.
Systems of Replanting
2.18     RISDA's smallholder replanting program for old and low yielding
rubber is implemented through several different. systems of land development,
which are distinguished by the degree of RISDA's involvement in
implementation and management at the development and production stages:
(a) individual repl-nting; (b) simultaneous replanting; (c) group replanting;
and (d) mini-estates.
2.19     Individual Replanting.  The only system operating until 1973,
individual replanting has accounted for about 75 to 8OZ of RISDA's annual
replanting in recent years. Individual owners approved by RISDA for a
replanting grant take full responsibility for implementation of their
replanting, including scheduling of works through the entire Immaturity
period from land clearing through planting and subsequent maintenance of the
young crop. RISDA's grant payments in cash and kind (inputs) are made
available as RISDA's field inspectors confirm progressive completion of the
replanting works and overall satisfactory field conditions. The replanter
may call upon RISDA's extension services for technical advice in planting and
weed, disease and pest control, etc. Once the final installment of the grant
has been paid, RISDA has no further involvement in the development of the
replant; the smallholder may bring the crop into production at any time and,
with rubber, according to his own choice of tapping system.
2.20     Simultaneous Replanting.  This system was introduced in 1986 and
increased from 122 of total RISDA replantings in 1986 to 24Z in 1987 but
declined to about 13Z in 1988. Focussing on rubber, it developed from RISDA's
objective to increase the efficiency of replanting operations. Simultaneous
replanting involves organizing farmers on scattered boldings into groups
which follow the same replanting schedule under RISDA guidance. RISDA
arranges the contracting of all land preparation and the schedules and
implementation of subsequent works covering the initial six months of
maintenance after planting, as well as the delivery of inputs as an
integrated operation for all participating farmers in the scheme, thereby
achieving benefits of scale for them. Once the planting contract has been
completed, including the first six months of field maintenance after
planting, the group participants assume responsibility for all further
maintenance and other work in their holdings throughout the crop immaturity
period. The system enables RISDA to carry out its obligations to replanters
more efficiently as a result of better programming of RISDA supervisors,
extension staff and inspectors.
2.21     Group Replanting.  This was the first type of group operation
introduced (in 1973) by RISDA into the smallholder sector. Annual totals of
group replanting have declined consid4rably since 1985 due to budget
constraints. It accounted for only 4t of total RISDA replantings in 1987 and
6Z in 1988.   This replanting is by a group of farmers on contiguous land of



at least 20 ha with RISDA assistance.  RISDA takes the responsibility for
implementation of the first two years of land development through contractual
arrangements. Afterwards, RISDA withdraws from further direct management of
the field works and encourages members to continue functioning as a group.
RISDA, however, closely supervises the standards and timing of work for the
remainder of the immaturity period. Like simultaneous replanting, this
system facilitates more concentrated RISDA extension services.
2.22     Mini-estates.  Mini-estates, the most organized of the RISDA group
farming systems, have been developed to bring the benefits of estate-type
technology and management to smallholders through the form.ation of large
centrally-managed units of production. Mini-estates were initiated by RISDA
in 1979, and although annual implementation has been affected by budget
fluctuations, some 365 units with an area of about 39,440 ha (30,440 ha of
rubber and 9,000 ha of oil palm) had been developed through 1988. Of these,
100 were in production. In this system, farmers agree to combine, for
operational purposes, contiguous or near contiguous lots of land, scheduled
for replanting, into a single and integrated estate unit under direct RISDA
management. The minimum size of estate at formation is 40 ha--the average
size of existing mini-estates is about 110 ha.
2.23     RISDA organizes and assures the operation of each mini-estate entity
through the transfer in trust of the individual land titles to RISDA (title
caveats) for the period of land development and for such further period as
necessary for recovery of development expenditures over and above the
replanting grant entitlements of the participants.  Unlike participants of
other replanting systems, mini-estate participants are given loans by RISDA
for supplementary development costs. These loans are charged to smallholders
in proportion to their landholdings.   Mini-estate development costs are
typically higher than those of individual and group replanters, due to
investment in terracing, drainage, internal roads and perimeter fencing.
Full development costs for vacant pocket areas not eligible for the
replanting grant are also charged to the loan account. Investments in an
access road for the mini-estate, if required, and any building facilities for
administration and storage are absorbed by RISDA. On full repayment of the
loan, RISDA is expected to return the land titles to the owners anticipating
that they would retain the group structure and integrated management system
for the economic benefits of scale and more advanced levels of technology
input. However, RISDA has not yet formulated any plan for the future
operation of mini-estates after loan repayment. Recognizing some of the
problems in mini-estate development and operation (see para. 4.11 (a)), RISDA
decided in February 1989 that its main emphasis will be on group and
simultaneous replanting and only in areas where these replanting systems are
not feasible will the mini-estate approach be adopted. Implementation of
this new policy is expected to restrict the future expansion of mini-estates.
Agricultural Inputs Program
2.24     In addition to support for replanting, RISDA assists some rubber
smallholders (holdings of 2.8 ha or less in the case of individual farmers
and 4 ha or less in the case of members of group replantings and mini-
estates) with agricultural inputs, mostly for crops in production.  These
ifree' inputs merely reduce the net tax resulting from export duties and
replanting cess (para. 2.17). By far the most important of these inputs is
fertilizer, which is distributed for at least the first three years after the



- 12 -
completion of grant payments, in quantities to meet standard recommended
rates. Chemicals for weed control are distributed with the fertilizers, if
field conditions are very weedy. Other available inputs include chemicals
for disease and pest control and the stimulation of latex production, and
seeds and planting materials for the growing of interrow cash crops or legume
cover crops in the development phase. The total value of these inputs was
about M$ 15 million p.a. in the recent past w.h approximately 642 used for
fertilizer, 162 for cash and legume crops and 20? for herbicides and other
chemicals. The program is administered by the Extension Division. The main
issue relating to the program is that there is no monitoring and evaluation
mechanism currently in place to ascertain whether the inputs are having the
desired impact on productivity and whether the scheme is being equitably
implemented (since available funds are not adequate to cover the entire
target group).
Replanting Performance
2.25     Since the inception of the cess-funded rubber replanting program in
1952, some 980,000 ha of old smallholder rubber have been replanted (Annex
8), of which about 823,000 ha was first time replanting. representing about
71Z of the total registered smallholder rubber area in the Peninsula. Most
of the balance is second round replanting of early replants which have aged
beyond their economic life. This second-round replanting, which totalled
104,000 ha at end 1988, has assumed increasing importance in the last few
years, accounting for 35-40? of all replanting in the 1985-88 period. The
annual replanting rate increased steadily from 1953 to the mid-sixties, when
it peaked at about 45,000 ha. Subsequent annual performance has varied from
17,500 ha to 40,000 ha, subject mainly to rubber price fluctuations. Rubber
has accounted for about 772 of all replantings since the inception of the
program compared to about 12Z for oil palm and 1lZ for other crops, mostly
fruits (non-citrus). Annual proportions have varied considerably in response
to market signals (Annex 8). Until 1973, replanting was on an individual
basis, although this system now accounts for about 75-80Z of the total
annual achievement under RISDA. Group replantings reached an aggregate of
23,500 ha at end-1988; mini-estates totalled about 39,500 ha; and
simultaneous replanting some 15,200 ha.
2.26     Replanting of old low-yielding rubber with improved clones and
better production technology has helped raise the average yields in the
smallholder sector (in peninsular Malaysia) to about 900 kg/ha in 1988,
compared to the 400-500 kg/ha for unimproved smallholder rubber. However,
there is little systematic data on the relative efficiency of RISDA's various
replanting systems. Available information about mini-estates suggests that
their performance has been rather mixed. Early yield profiles for some mini-
estates show averages for both rubber and oil palm much below expectations.
On the other hand, there are individual mini-estates with good yield
performance more in line with estate-organized production. Although. a number
of possible factors related to management could help explain the cases of
unsatisfactory mini-estates, the most serious problem is that of incomplete
and protracted establishment of the crop at planting, leading to a low
percentage of producing trees in the early production years. The development
cost of mini-estates is high, averaging M$ 7,000/ha for rubber and
M$ 5,200/ha for oil palm for those 64 rubber and 36 oil palm mini-estates
which had entered into production by the end of 1988. These costs are
significantly above those estimated for the other replanting systems and



- 13 -
above replanting grants of M$5,436/ha for rubber and M$3,767/ha for oil palm.
High costs are partly the result of intensive inputs including terracing,
fencing and roads, and partly that of above average planting losses requiring
repeated supply plantings. In view of the above factors, RISDA has decided
to de-emphasize mini-estates (para. 2.23).
Performance of Bank-Financed RISDA Operations
2.27     Although the Bank has not financed a free-standing RISDA project, it
has financed RISDA components under four area agricultural development
projects coordinated by other Government agencies (starting from 1980 and
expected to continue through 1994): Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation
(Ln. 1899-MA), Malacca Agricultural Development (Ln. 2147-HA), Kedah Valley
Agricultural Development (Ln. 2220-MA) and Second Western Johore Agricultural
Development (Ln. 2740-MA). Total estimated Bank financing of these
components is about US$40 million. In each project, the Bank has supported
both RISDA's individual and group farming systems. In the aggregate, the
Bank has supported replanting of 42,000 ha and maintenance of a further
18,000 ha already planted at the time of start-up of projects. Rubber has
predominated but, in recent years, support has also been extended to oil palm
and other crops. Other support for RISDA has included agLicultural inputs, a
central nursery and miscellaneous small buildings, vehicles and equipment.
Details of these project components are given in Annex 9. In all cases,
RISDA's performance has been satisfactory and generally problem-free.
Revised targets in response to budget constraints have bet, achieved or
exceeded, and the RISDA components have disbursed well. No project
completion report has yet been issued for projects with RISDA components.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
3.1      The Government and the Bank began discussions on the proposed
project in 1986. RISDA prepared a draft project proposal which was briefly
reviewed by a Bank mission in October 1987. The project proposal was
officially submitted to the Bank by the Government on January 15, 1988. A
Bank preliminary preparation mission reviewed the proposal in late March
1988, and a full preparation mission visited Malaysia in June 1988. The
findings of the June 1988 mission were discussed with the Government by a
pre-appraisal mission in November/December 1988. Appraisal took place in
March/April 1989.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.2      During project preparation, the Bank helped focus attention on the
relevant institutional issues and clarify the direction and substance of
RISDA's reorganization and strengthening. The project would be consistent
with the Bank's agricultural sector lending strategy for Malaysia (para.
1.13), and continued Bank involvement during project implementation is
ex;iected to facilitate the complex process of institutional change.



- 14 -
Prolect Obiectives and Main Features
3.3      The project would help increase the productivity and incomes of
about 104,000 rubber smallholders by supporting RISDA's development progra-.
which centers on replanting of smallholder rubber, and RISDA's institutional
strengthening. The project would support a three-year (1990-92) time-slice
of RISDA's agricultural development program, and its reorganization and
institutional development efforts, as follows:
(a) agricultural development: (i) replanting of smallholder rubber,
early maintenance of planted crops, crop rehabilitation, agricultural
inputs, mainly for crops in production, and supplemental support for
mini-estates; (ii) construction and maintenance of agricultural
access roads; and (iii) improved agricultural extension services and
smallholder training; and
(b) institutional development: (i) provision of management facilities
and vehicles, including office technology equipment to help
computerize RISDA's management information system (MIS);
(ii) expanded staff training; and (iii) studies.
3.4      The proposed project covers the entire peninsular Malaysia, except
for areas receiving other external financing, including the Second Western
Johore Agricultural Development Project (Loan 2740-MA), and the ADB-financed
Terengganu Smallholder Development and Perlis Agricultural Development
Projects.
Detailed Proje-t Description
3.5      Agricultural Development.  The project would support replanting of
31,830 ha in 1990, 33,390 ha in 1991, and 36,240 ha in 1992. These targets
include cess-financed replantings by FELDA and FELCRA (about 5,500 - 6,000 ha
p.a.) but exclude replantings under other externally-funded projects.
Including the latter, RISDA's national replanting target would be 33,500 ha in
1990 and 40,000 ha each in 1991 and 1992. These targets are considered
feasible on the basis of demand for replanting from farmers as well as RISDA's
implementation capacity (details in Annex 3, para. 19). Based on recent
experience, the crop ratio in replanting is expected to be approximately 6:3:1
of rubber, oil palm and other crops. Crop choice would continue to be the
prerogative of the replanters, except in cases where such choices are
agroclimatically unsuitable, and RISDA would, therefore, not intervene
administratively to enforce a specific crop ratio. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations. In line with current Bank policy, development
costs of any cocoa planting elected by smallholders would not be eligible for
reimbursement.
3.6      The project would support crop maintenance of all existing
smallholder replant areas (excluding cocoa) on which grant installments would
be paid during the project period. Total area under maintenance would change
yearly as the earlier planted areas mature.  The area under maintenance in
successive years of the project would range from 106,100 ha to 129,300 ha.
3.7      The project would provide rehabilitation assistance for failed
replantings or those with unsatisfactory field conditions due to events
outside the control of farmers (e.g., natural disasters like fire, floods,



- 15 -
wind damage, etc.), and for which grant payments are deferred within the
first two years after planting. The cost of assisted rehabilitation may
not exceed the amount of grant paid up to the time of deferment. It is
estimated that some 7.500 ha would be rehabilitated during the project
period.
3.8      The project would support RISDA's agricultural inputs program,
mainly for crops in production. It would provide fertilizers, latex
stimulants and chemicals/weedicides for mature replanted rubber as a means
to boost its productivity, and seeds and planting materials for cover crops
and cash crops in areas being replanted. Fertilizers would account for
about 70Z of the program allocation and would cover about 60,000 halyr.
Fertilizers, along with chemicals/weedicides and latex stimulants, for
mature rubber would represent incremental recurrent costs and would be
provided in years when yields are too low to gernerate enough cash for
farmers. Cover crops and casn crops would be development costs. In view
of the issues relating to this program (para. 2.24), the monitoring and
evaluation system under the project (para. 4.18) would assess whether any
changes are needed in the program.
3.9      The project would provide for supplementary development costs of
mini-estates for about 6,000 ha of new mini-estates and a yearly average of
18,000 ha of existing mini-estates. These development costs are over and
above the participating smallholders' replanting grant entitlements and
cover development of vacant pocket areas, terracing, -ainage, internal
roads and nerimeter fencing (para. 2.23).  They woul_    charged to
participating smallholders as loans (para. 2.12), which would be repaid to
RISDA as the estates come into production. The project would not include
mini-estate housing schemes, currently part of RISDA's development budget
allocation from the Government. In view of the issues relating to mini-
estates (paras. 2.23 and 4.11(a)), the project would provide for an in-
depth study to improve their efficiency (para. 3.15(a)).
3.10     The project would support construction and maintenance of
agricultural access roads, estimated at about 300 km, including bridges and
drainage works, for mini-estates and simu.;ltaneous and group replantings.
Currently, the very low level specifications being used for access roads
often result in the roads being unusable after a single rainy season.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that RISDA would upgrade access
roads specifications to those for agricultural roads (such as those
constLucted by FELDA). Under the project agricultural access roads would
be constructed to minimum geometric standards following contour lines.
Gravel pavement would be 4.2 m wide and 15 cm thick, for an average of 630
m3 compacte" material per km. The road sub-base and gravel surface would
be rolled over 3 to 4 times by passing a 6-ton roller. Bridges would be
built mostly of timber and as such culverts would nct be required in most
cases. 30 cm wide ditches would be cut alongside the roads as required.
Average construction cost is estimated at M$ 25,000/km. For reasons of
construction standards, RISDA access roads are not accepted as part of the
State network and, therefore, do not qualify for State maintenance funding.
To ensure that they remain in operative condition, it is necessary that
RISDA attend to their maintenance. RISDA presently has no specific budget
allocation for maintenance of roads and other infrastructure constructed in
the past in support of the replanting program. Assurances were, therefore,
also obtained at negotiations that RISDA would create a new accounts code



- 16 -
for infrastructure maintenance and earmark adequate funds for maintenance
from its development budget allocations for infrastructure.
3.11     The project would help to improve RISDA's pr^sently ineffective
(para. 4.10) extension program through role redefinition, better work
programming, better equipment and training. Specifically, extensionists
wiould concentrate increasingly on providing technical assistance to rubber
smallholders and would shed responsibility Zor socio-economic activities
and loan recoveries. The skills upgrading program under the project would
include the "training uf trainers" and training of extension workers
(para. 3.34), and mobile traiiiing equipment would be provided for use by
extension staff in four selected States on a tr.al basis. The extension
component would finance equipment and materials for demonstration plots and
pilot projects, and expenditures incurred in organizing field workshops,
demonstrations and meetings for smallholders.
3.12     Finally, the project would provide improved equipment for
smallholder training and would increase the availabil'ty of agricultural
training for women workers in rubber smallholdings. Women as a group make
an important input into rubber production in the smallholder sector and up
to 402 of smallholdiiig tappers in certain States are women. However,
RISDA's training programs have not made any special provision for the
incluision of women or focussed on the requirements to ensure their active
participation. Though RISDA provides extension and training services to
women along with men in the rubber smallholder sector, it does not keep
records of trainees by sex. A rough guess is that oily 10? of trainees
have been women, which would be very much out of liue with the propcrtion
of women workers irn the sector. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from RISDA that it would begin to record number by gender of
smallholders trained by its Training Institutes as well as in the field,
endeavor to increase the number of women trainees at its Training
Institutes to about 30? of the total smallholder trainees by the end of
1992, and expand facilities for in situ training of women in villages since
[ocio-economic and cultural factors and transportation problems may make it
difficult for women to attend courses at Training Institutes.
3.13     Institutional Development.  The project would provide for vehicles
and office equipment, principally equipment for improving RISDA's
management information system (MIS). Vehicles would be needed primarily
for distribution of agricultural inputs to smallholders. Total
requirements of vehicles over 1990-92 to be financed under the project
would be 2 light passenger 1Fuses for staff and smallholder trainees
transport, 6 1.5-ton lorries, 33 3.5-ton lorries, 20 5.5-ton lorries, 2
7.5-ton lorries, 9 vans and 20 4-wheel drive vehicles. The project would
also finance hardware and software for RISDA's computerized HIr. including
a mainframe at the head office, mini-computers at the State level and 70
personal computers for the head office, Training Institutes and the new
responsibility centers emerging from field level reorganization (para.
4.8). The Government has approved in principle RISDA's proposal to
computerize information on finance and accounts, stock control and store
management, mini-estates operations and smallholders (Annex 10). Of the
four modules, considerable emphasis has been placed on the financial and
accounting module. However, the accounting system should not be equated
with management information; there is particularly a need to improve the
operational information relating to the field activities of RISDA.



- 17 _
Assurances were, therefore, obtained during negotiations that RISDA would
undertake some actions for the implementation of its computerized MIS
(detailed at Annex 10). the most significant of which would be an
evaluation of the computerization at the Muar Regional Office of the
smallholder grant release and administration procedures. The project would
finance a consultant's study of the Muar experiment to assess its relevance
to the service functions of rTDA's field offices.  The evaluation would
greatly facilitate improv_e., of the overall design of RISDA's
computerized MIS. Terms of reference for the study are provided in Annex
12.4.
3.14     The project would support a comprehensive and systematic program
of local and overseas training for RISDA staff. For upper management.
training would seek to broaden their experience, skills and perspective.
Traininig would also seek to strengthen the capabilities of the staff of the
Planning Division, Training and Comaunity Development Division and the
Inspectorate and Audit Unit. For the extension staff, training will focus
on improvement of communication skills to strengthen field performance and
will include training of trainers. Computer training would be available to
both management and operator staff to effectively implement the proposed
large expansion of the computerization program.  In addition, consistent
with the pace of field level reorganization and decentralization (paras.
4.8 - 4.9), a comprehensive traininDg package would be developed to upgrade
tha skills of clerical staff to handle accounting, financial, and
electronic data processing functions. Technical assistance (about 54
person-months) *rould be provided for :mproving communication skills of the
extension staff and for strengthening of training management. Details of
the training program are at Annex S!1
3.15     The project would finance the following five studies by
independent consultants to help continue RISDA's reorganization and
strengthening:
(a)  suitable organizational and management models for mini-estates and
procedural changes required to increase their efficiency (para.
4.11(a);
(b) a review of the cooperative structure for the smallholders served
by RISDA, including restructuring and strengthening of NARSCO
(para. 4.11 (c);
(c) a review of the future organiz.ational options for Schemes 1956 and
1959 (para. 4.11 (d);
(d) a technical evaluation of the Muar computerization project
(para. 3.13); and
te)  the establisbment of a monitoring and evaluation system
(para. 4.18).
Detailed draft terms of reference for the studies are at Annex 12.  The
studies will require about 29 person-months of consultant services.
Project Costs
3.16     Total project costs over 1990-92 amount to M$ 558.1 million
(US$206.7 million), including a foreign ex..hange component of M$ 197.6



- 18 -
million (US$73.3 million) equivalent to about 35Z of total costs.
Identifiable taxes and duties amount to M$ 12.2 million (US$4.5 million).
Total cc,ts include &ai estimated US$6.5 million of cocoa expenditures,
although it is difficult to be certain about this figure as smallholders
are free to elect the crop for replanting under the RISDA program (para.
2.15). Base costs were estimated using early 1989 prices, adjusted to
reflect end-1989 levels. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10 for
vehicles and equipment. Price contingencies for agricultural inputs,
vehicles and equipment and staff training and technical assistance amount
to about 1X of total base costs plus physical contingencies, based on the
projected domestic inflation rate of 2.8Z for 1990 and 3.5Z for 1991 and
1992 and foreign inflation rate of 7.2Z for 1990 and 4.4Z for 1991 and
1992. Project costs exclude RISDA's annual operating budget of about M$70
million (US$25.9 million equivalent), which covers salaries, supplies and
services for its entire work program. Project costs are detailed at
Annex 13 and sunmarized in Table 3.1 below.
Financing
3.17     The proposed Bank loan of US$71.0 million to the Government of
Malaysia (GOM) would finance the estimated foreign exchange component
(excluding the foreign exchange component of cocoa replanting and
maintenance txpenditures). The Bank loan would cover about 35Z of total
project costs, exclusive of taxes and duties. The GOM would contribute
US$40.7 million equivalent through annual budget allocations to RISDA. The
contributicn of rubber smallholders through replanting cess payments would
be US$95.0 million equivalent. The financing plan is shown in Table 3.2
below. Transfer of Bank loan proceeds to RISDA would be on the same terms
and conditions as currently followed by the Government (para. 2.12) and
ccnsistent with arrangements under the recent Second FELCRA Land
Development Project (Loan 2917-MA, signed April 11, 1988) and Sabah Land
Settlement and Environmental Management Project (Loan 3039-MA, signed July
18, 1989).
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
X       %
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total Foreign   Base
Component                   -(M8 millIon)          (US$ mill In)_   Exchange  Cost
Replanting & Maintenance   257.9  138.8  396.7  95.5  61.4   146.9   35       72
RehabIlitation            6.8    8.2   9.0   2.1   1.2    8.3   8S             2
Agricultural Inputs       20.2   24.8  45.0   7.5   9.2   16.7   55            8
Supplementary Costs of
M nI-Estates             57.6   10.2  68.0   21.4   3.8   2S.a   1S          12
Infrastructure            4.9    2.6   7.5   1.8   1.0    2.8   3S             I
Ext. & Smallholder Training   9.4    1.1  10.6   3.5   0.4    3.9   10         2
Managemnt FacilitIes      2.3    9.3   11.6   0.9   3.4    4.3   so            2
Staff Training            0.7    2.2   2.9   0.3   0.8    1.1   75             1
Studies                   0.1    0.7   0.8       -    0.3    0.3   90          -
Total Base Costs       369.1   192.9  652.0  133.0  71.5  204.5   35        100
Physical Contingencies    0.2    1.0   1.2    -       0.4    0.4   80
Price Contingercios       1.2    3.7   4.9   0.4   1.4    1.8   75
Total Proioct Costs a    3860.5   197.6  568.1  183.4  73.3  206.7   35
La Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$4.5 million equivalent.



- 19 -
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(USS million equivalent)
Rubber f
World Bank     cam      CmalIhofTirs     Total
Component               Amount    X Amount  1   Amount   X    mount   X
Replanting A Maintenance    47.8  34    4.1    8    95.0  a6   146.9  71
Rehabilitation            1.1  34    2.2  a6       -      -      8.8    2
Agricultural Inputs.      6.1  34   11.8  6e       -      -     17.9    9
Supplementary Costs of
Mini-Es'.ates            8.6  84   16.6  6s    -         -    25.2  12
Infrastructure            1.0  34    1.8  66       -      -     2.8    1
Ext. S Smaliholder Training   1.8  34    2.6  6e   -      -      3.9    2
Management Facilities     3.9  76    1.3  26    -         -      6.2    3
Staff Training: (a) Local  -    -    0.3  100      -      -      0.3    -
(b) Overseas  0.3 100   -      _        -          0.3    -
(c) T.A.    0.6 100     -      -    -      -       0.6    -
Studilea                  o.a 100     -                   -      0.3    -
Total Financing        71.0  84   40.7  20   95.0  46   206.7  100
La 84X of expenditures excluding cocoa.
lb Through replanting coss payments. The smaliholder contribution is pro-rated,
taking Into account other externally-funded projects with RISDA components.
Procurement
3.18      .orks.  A significant part of works for replanting, maintenance, and
rehabilitation, amounting to some US$83.3 million equivalent would be
undertaken by the beneficiaries themselves. Works for mini-estate
development, at an estimated cost of US$18.0 million equivalent (involving
activities from land preparation to planting and field maintenance during crop
development), and agricultural roads, bridges, and d-ains at an estimated
US$0.8 million equivalent, would be procured through local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedires which have been reviewed by the Bank and are considered
acceptable. These contracts, all relatively small, geographically widely
dispersed and scattered in time over the project period, would be of little
interest to foreign bidders who would, however, be eligible to compete. The
remaining agricultural works for mini-estates (non-major maintenance works
during crop immaturity costing less than M$50,000 or US$18,500) totalling
about US$5.0 million equivalent and non-major works (costing less than
M$50,000) for agricultural roads, bridges and drains totalling about US$2.0
million equivalent would be procured by limited tendering involving bid
invitations from at least five contractors of good standing.
3.19     Goods and Services.  Vehicles (US$2.7 millica), computer equipment
(US$2.3 million) and fertilizers and most chemicals (USS 68.0 million) would
be procured through international competitive b'dding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. A margin of preference equal to 15Z of the
c.i.f. bid price of imported goods, or the amount of customs duties and taxes,
whichever is less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Except
planting materials valued at about US$ 14.0 million which would be procured
from nurseries under Schemes 1956 and 1959, and proprietory chemicals which
would be procured through direct negotiations with the suppliers, other inputs



- 20 -
would be procured through LCB in which foreign suppliers would be eligible to
participate. Equipment, inputs and materials costing less than M$50,000 each
and totalling not more than US$1 million would be purchased under the
prevailing procedures of limited tendering involving quotations from at least
five suppliers. All goods procurement would be grouped to the extent
practicable. Consultant services (US$0.9 million) would be procured according
to Bank Guidelines, with terms of reference, qualifications, and contract
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.20     Procurement Review.  All ICB and consultant contracts and any others
exceeding US$2 million, and all overseas training proposals, would be subject
to prior Bank review. This would cover about 602 of the total value of all
contracts and consi6t of approximately 25 contracts. Other contracts would be
subject to selective post-award review. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in Table 3.3.
Dis'bursement
3.21     Disbursement of the proposed loan would be as follows: (a) 34Z of
expenditures on crop replanting and maintenance through maturity (except for
cocoa); (b) 34Z of expenditures on rehabilitation of replantings, agricultural
inputs program, supplementary costs of mini-estate development, infra-
structure, and extension and smallholder training; (c) for vehicles and
equipment (management facilities), 1002 of the foreign exchange cost of
directly imported items, 1002 of the ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured
items net of taxes and 75Z of the cost of items procured locally; and (d) 10OO
of the cost of overseas training and consultants.
Table 38.: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS million) La
Item                 ICe        LCB       Other        N.A.         Total
Works
go-planting, Maintenance and
Rehabilitation                        3-          -          88 B/b        838
-         -         (28.2)        (26.2)
Mini-Estate
Dovelopment                  -        18.0        6.0         -            23.0
_        (6.1)     (1.7)        -             (7.8)
Agricultural Roads, Eridges, etc.        0.8       2.0          -            2.8
(0.3)     (0.7)        -            (1.0)
Goods
Vehicles and Equipment         5.0       -         0.2         -             5.2
(3.8)      -        (0.1)        -            (3.9)
Fertilizers and Other Inputs  68.0       4.0       16.0 /c     -            87.0
(23.1)    (1.4)      (6.1)        -           (29.6)
Extension, Training and Consultants  -     -         6.4         -             5.4
_  _     (2.6)        -            (2.6)
Total                     73.0      22.8      27.6        883.         206.7
(28.9)    (7.8)    (10.1)       (26.2)        (71.0)
Percentage of Procurement       69        19        22           n.s.        100
a Figures In parenthesis show Bank financing.
Undertaken by rubber smaliholder beneficiaries.
7 Includes about US$ 14.0 million for planting material from nurseries.



- 21 -
3.22     Disbursements for (a) all expenditures on crop replanting and
maintenance through maturity, rehabilitation of replantings, the agricultural
inputs program and extension and smallholder training; and (b) expenditures
under contracts valued less than US$200,000 equivalent for mini-estate
development, infrastru :.ure, vehicles and equipment would be made on the basis
of Statement of Exper.iitures (SOEs); documentation supporting these withdrawal
applications would be retained by RISDA for review by Bank supervision
missions.  All other disbursements would be made against full documentation.
3.23     The loan is expected to be disbursed over four years in accordance
with the schedule of disbursements shown at Annex 14.  Since the project is an
expenditure time-slice of an ongoing development program, disbursements are
projected to be significantly faster than the standard profile of Malaysian
agricultural projects.  This is borne out by the experience under the ongoing
FELCRA II Project (Loan 2917-MA), a similar time-slice operation, where about
261 of the loan has been disbursed within 15 months of loan effectiveness.
Loan closing date would be December 31, 1993. Since the proposed loan would
finance a time slice of RISDA's development expenditures beginning January 1,
1990, retroactive financing not exceeding US$ 7.0 million for eligible project
expenditures starting January 1, 1990 would be provided to cover any gap
between that date and loan signing.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Status of Preparation and Implementation Arrangements
4.1      Since the project covers a time-slice of RISDA's ongoing development
program, no significant pre-project implementation arrangements are required.
RISDA has over 15 years' experience and is fully geared up for the planned
1990-92 program. It is recognized that the organizational changes (discussed
below) during the project period would create some uncertainties and
administrative delays. However, the proposed phasing of the reorganization
would minimize the dislocation and, therefore, no serious problems in project
implementation are expected.
4.2      For the replanting program of 38,500 ha in 1990, implementation
arrangements were reviewed at the time of appraisal and were found to be
satisfactory. Preparation and processing of 1991 and 1992 programs would be
initiated up to one year before field implementation. All maintenance work on
immature areas established prior to the project would continue on a routine
basis, using contracts or smallholder family labor. The physical
implementation targets for the remaining two years of the project would be set
by budget allocations for those years. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that, by September 30 of each year. the Government would consult
with the Bank on RISDA's annual work program and its funding for each
following year of the project. The processing steps involved in the
implementation of the replanting and mairtenance component, as well as
rehabilitation and agricultural inputs components, are shown at Annex 6.



- 22 -
Project Coordination and Organization
4.3      The Ministry of Lands and Regional Development would be responsible
for overall project performance and the Director General, RISDA, would have
implementation responsibility. Specifically. RISDA's Replanting Division
would be responsible for implementing the replanting and maintenance and
rehabilitation components, Extension Divisior; for the agricultural inputs and
extension components, Infrastructure Division for the infrastructure
component, Mini-Estate Division for the mini-estate component, Training
Division for the training component, and Supplies and Procurement Division for
vehicles and equipment (in consultation with the Computer Steering Committee
for office technology equipment) as well as procurement of agricultural
inputs. The Planning and Development Division would assist in the execution of
studies. The Finance Division would be responsible for preparing withdrawal
applications for loan disbursements and would maintain all documentation
supporting withdrawal applications.
RISDA's Reorganization and Strengthening
4.4      The process of institutional change at RISDA is well underway
(paras. 2.9-2.10). The project would complement the Government's ongoing
efforts and concentrate on those aspects of RISDA's reorganization and
strengthening which impact on the efficiency of project implementation. Some
already agreed institutional actions would be undertaken during the project
period, as well as some in-depth studies which would provide a basis for
subs.jquent institutional actions (paras. 3.15 and 4.14).  The specific
institutional issues. which the project will address, were briefly mentioned
in para. 2.8. These are discussed in greater detail below (accounting and
auditing issues are discussed in paras. 4.16 - 4.17).
4.5      Head Office Reorganization.  With 15 senior staff reporting directly
to the Director General (DG), he would have to take care of routine
administration with little time for strategy and policy matters. In
particular, the PG would find it difficult to deal with the 11 State Directors
(SDs) directly.  The SDs are at present given policy guidance at the monthly
Directors' meeting comprising the DG, the Deputy Director Generals (DDGs), the
Directors of the Head Office Divisions and the 11 SDs. There is thus no clear
functioning line of command from the Head Office to the field level.  Another
important point is that with the present organizational structure, the DG
would have li,.Lle time to focus on reports from the Inspectorate and Audit
(I&A) Unit, which needs his personal support and back-up to function
effectively. To deal with this problem, lines of authority would be redrawn
so that the DG does not have to directly control all field operations. The
number of staff reporting to the DG will thus be greatly reduced and leave him
greater time to focus on policy, leadetship, personnel and quality control
issues.
4.6      Another issue is the inadequate coordination among field programs,
subsidiaries and the Head Office and somewhat inconsistent approaches,
particularly towards cooperatives, NARSCO, SHDC (a subsidiary) and marketing
and processing activities undertaken by RISDA. To a significant extent, this
has been due to placement of functionally-related Divisions under different
lines of command. To improve coordination sad implementation efficiency,
units with close operational linkages would be placed under one supervising



- 23 -
authority.  Moreover, credit accounts, which are at present maintained by the
Replanting and Extension Divisions, would transfer to the Finance Division,
which would also be responsible for loan recoveries.
4.7      Strengthening of some Head Office divisions would also be necessary.
In particular, the Replanting Division and the Inspectorate and Audit Unit
would need additional staff. Most of this staff would be available from the
Marketing Division, which is to be dissolved after the phase-out of RISDA's
marketing and processing activities (see para. 4.11(b)).  Efforts would also
be made to improve staff morale and incentives, particularly by streamlining
procedures for staff promotions.
I
4.8      Field-Level Reorganization.  The five-tier field structure (para.
2.4) has led to duplication of activities and blurring of accountability (see
Annex 15 for details). To decentralize services and bring them closer to the
smallholders, RISDA has decided to eliminate the administrative level of the
Regional Ofrices (23) and reduce the number of Districts from 83 to 61.
Although the overall number of field offices would be reduced, the number of
"responsibility centers," defined as offices in which accounts are kept and
from which payments are made, would be increased from 23 to 63 (in addition to
proposed 61 RISDA Districts, two State offices, Perlis and Pinang, which have
no Districts, will also act as responsibility centers). Implementation of
the field-level reorganization will start full scale by early 1990 and will be
substantially completed by end-1992. The Districts to be merged are shown in
Annex 15, Table 1 and proposed categories of RISDA Districts and State Offices
are defined in Annex 15, Tables 2 and 3, respectively.
4.9      The effectiveness of the field-level reorganization and
decentralization would be greatly enhanced by implementation of RISDA's
computerized MIS under the project (para. 3.13). Simultaneously, a systematic
training program under the project would need to be introduced to upgrade
clerical skills to handle electronic data processing, finance and accounting
functions (para. 3.14). The Training Division would actively train clerical
staff to pass the promotional examinations to enable them to improve their
career prospects and, at the same time, provide RISDA with a wider senior
staff base.
4.10     Strengthening Role of Extension Staff.   RISDA's extension services
extend to all rubber smiallholders but with special attention to those who
replant with rubber. The services are provided by RISDA's field staff whose
main responsibilities currently revolve around the field and administrative
processes associated with the implementation of the replanting program,
particularly the approval of the replanting grant installment payments.
Although RISDA has about 1,300 field extension workers, extension activities
lack effectiveness. Current extension programs reach about 195,000
smallholder families and are very wide in content; in addition to providing
advice and demonstrations on modern rubber growing technologies (e.g.,
planting practices, crop nutrition, crop sanitation and tapping systems),
including innovative production technologies under the guidance of RRIM (para.
1.9), they also make a major effort to promote other income-generating
agricultural activities. In 1987, these latter included some 6,400
participants in 2,880 new or ongoing projects involving animal rearing,
miscellaneous crop production and village industries, with a total cumulative
investment of about M$ 5.8 million. Such wide-ranging activities are beyond
the capacity of RISDA's present and foreseeable staffing. Even for the



- 24 -
support of rubber growing, the existing cadre is not sufficiently trained in
the technologies of crop production and communication methods. The project
would endeavor to address these deficiencies through upgrading extension
skills (para. 3.14). As part of the strengthening of RISDA's effectiveness,
there will be decreasing emphasis during the project on extension efforts for
non-rubber and non-replanting aspects of agricultural development as these can
be more appropriately handled by more directly concerned government agencies
(para. 2.10). The collection of overdue loans would no longer be the
responsibility of the extension staff (para. 4.6). Moreover, subject-matter
specialists would be appointed (from among the current staff after suitable
training) at the State level to implement a suitably-adapted Training and
Visit (T&V) System.
4.11     Rationalization of RISDA's Activities.  Issues arising from RISDA's
involvement in commercial as well as developmental and social activities are
summarized below (details are at Annex 16)s
(a) Mini-Estates. While the development phase of mini-estates posed
relatively simple and manageable problems, the production phase.
which is now starting, will create increasingly complex problems
for RISDA. About 290 mini-estates are expected to be in
production by the end of 1990. Although no syitematic evaluation
of the mini-estate program has been conducted so far, available
information indicates that some mini-estates are of doubtful
viab,lity (para. 2.26). RISDA, which already has the complex task
of assisting the development of rubber smallholders scattered
throughout the country, will have the added problem of production
management of mini-estates. Performing this complex dual role is
likely to stretch RISDA to its limits.  Realizing this, RISDA
rightly decided in February 1989 to de-emphasize mini-estates
(para. 2.23). There is a need now to study suitable
organizational and management models for mini-estates (detailed
TORs are at Annex 12.1).
(b) Marketing and Processing. RISDA had undertaken these functions
ostensibly to provide price support to smallholders, acting as
buyer of last resort. RISDA also processes smallholders' sheet
rubber in its smokehouses. The smokehouses have operated below
capacity and marketing losses have been high, because of
inexperienced marketing staff and inappropriate marketing strategy
and policies. As a result, the original revolving fund of M$65
million, which RISDA received from the Government in 1982 for
marketing operations, had declined to about M$39 million by the
end of 1988. As decided by the Government, NARSCO would takeover
RISDA's rubber purchasing function. This is expected to be
completed by the end of 1990. In the meantime, the financial and
organizational arrangements required for NARSCO to effectively
take over RISDA's rubber purchasing function and, possibly, rubber
processing function, would be analyzed as part of the study of
cooperatives and NARSCO (see (c) below).
(c) Cooperatives and NARSCO. Even after 10 years of experience, most
of the 63 cooperatives (para. 2.7) are financially unviable and
NARSCO, which is owned by the cooperatives, has virtually no
ope.ational linkages with them. The development of a sound



- 25 -
cooperative structure, including strengthening of NARSCO, is a
major challenge and would be the subject of a project study
(detailed TORs are at Annex 12.2). In the meantime, RISDA
management has decided that cooperatives would bec-Ie self-
financing and salaries of managerial staff, currentj.y paid by
RISDA, would be paid by cooperatives beginning 1992. However,
for the time being, RISDA will continue to assist the Department
of Cooperatives in the guidance and supervision of cooperatives.
(d) Schemes 1956 and 1959. These Schemes manage RISDA's nurseries and
estates.  Scheme 1959 has operated profitably, but Scheme 1956 has
faced financial difficulties and has been in debt to Scheme 1959
(details in Annex 16, para. 20). The two Schemes were established
under different Acts and, therefore, maintain separate accounts to
comply with their statutory requirements. However, it would
appear that they could be more effectively operated as a single
entity. They could either be fully integrated into RISDA (with
respect to both operations and finance and accounts) or converted
into a commercial subsidiary which may facilitate their greater
operational efficiency. Alternatives for their future would be
studied under the project (detailed TORs are at Annex 12.3) and a
decision taken by the end of 1990.
(e) Social Programs. RISDA's provision of credit for social,
consumption and production purposes has been diminishing over the
years with the phasing out of schemes such as family income
maintenance (SEPENTAS), fertilizer credit scteme, income guarantee
scheme (SJPI, etc. However, it still operates a Socio-Economic
Fund of M$O.9 million to grant collateralized loans to
smallholders. Here RISDA appears to be competing with the
commercial banks rather than providing loans against soft
collateral, as the name of the Fund would suggest. Moreover, this
activity compromises the role of the field extension staff (who
forward credit applications under the Fund), and for an
insignificant amount, diverts management's efforts from RISDA's
central activities. As part of the effort to increase RISDA's
effectiveness, its role in provision of credit would be
discontinued (except for the credit component of mini-estate
development costs) by the end of 1990.
4.12     In summary, agreement was obtained from the Government during
negotiations that the following actions for RISDA's reorganization and
strengthening would be undertaken during the pruject period: (a) Head
Office reorganization (paras. 4.5 - 4.7) would be completed by the end of
1990; tb) field level reorganization and aecentralization (paras. 4.8 -4.9)
would be substantially completed by the end of 1992; (c) measures would be
undertaken to strengthen the role of the extension staff (para. 4.10);
(d) NARSCO would assume RISDA's marketing operations by the end of 1990
(para. 4.11 (b)); (e) RISDA's cooperatives would become self-financing
beginning 1992 (para. 4.11 (c); (f) a decision on the future of Schemes
1956 and 1959 would be taken by the end nf 1990 (para. 4.11 (d)); and
(g) RISDA's credit activities would be discontinued (except for the credit
component of mini-estate development costs) by the end of 1990 (para. 4.11
(e)).



- 26 -
4.13     Other issues such as lack of manpower planning, inadequate controls,
and inadequate policy direction and performance monitoring (para. 2.8) will be
addressed by the project through its support for strengthening training
management, implementing a computerized MIS, establishing a monitoring and
evaluation system, reorganizing the Head Office and the field structure, and
strengthening specific divisions and units.
4.14     Finally, RISDA's continuing reorganization and strengthening would be
the subject of indepth studies under the project (para. 3.15 and Annex 12).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government and RISDA
that these studies would be undertaken by independent consultants, whose
qualifications and terms of reference would be acceptable to the Bank, and
that these studies would be completed by September 30, 1990 so that decisions
on their recommendations can be taken before the end of the project (1992).
Accounts and Audit
4.15     Accounts.  RISDA's financial accounts are in the process of being
computerized. Project disbursement categories are designed to coincide with
RISDA accounts, which eliminates the need for separate project accounting.
RISDA will, however, maintain records on the uses of project funds which would
trace and relate project expenditures to its overall financial accounts.
4.16     Audit.  RISDA's accounts are expected to be audited annually by the
Office of the Auditor General, considered as an independent government auditor
acceptable to the Bank. However, auditing of RISDA's accounts is considerably
behind schedule because of serious management problems in the early 1980s.
The new management has made significant progress in improving the status of
accounts since 1983. RISDA has already submitted its accounts through 1988 to
the Auditor General's office and accounts through 1986 have so far been
audited.   1987 accounts are expected to be audited by the end of 1989, 1988
accounts by mid-1990 and 1989 accounts by the end of 1990. Auditing of 1990
and later accounts is expected to follow the normal official schedule, that
is, within nine months of the close of the fiscal year. In fulfilment of the
condition for Board presentation, the Government furnished to the Bank RISDA's
audited financial statements through 1986. Receipt of the 1987 audited
accounts would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Assurances were elso
obtained at negotiations that audited accounts through 1989 would be available
to the Bank by the end of 199U and, thereafter, audited financial statements
would be available to the Bank within nine months of the close of the fiscal
year. The audit reports of 1990 and later years would include a separate
opinion as to whether funds disbursed against SOEs were used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
4.17     In 1986, following the audit of the 1979 accounts, the Government had
established a Write-Off Committee,  ...aired by the M-nistry of Lands and
Regional Development, to reconcile RISDA's sundry creditors and debtors
acr)unts between the control accounts and the subsidiary ledgers. The
Committee has recommended adjustments to the various accounts which are
expected to be reflected in future audited accounts. However, little, if
anything, has been done to reflect losses on loans to smallholders and to
subsidiaries and on goods sold on credit which are now considered non-
recoverable. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that the Write-Off
Committee would continue during the project period to examine the auditors'



- 27 -
reports and recommend appropriate action to address the outstanding issues.
In particular, the Committee should aim to clean up RISDA's balance sheet by
the end of 1991 so that it reflects RISDA's true financial condition. This
will involve inter alia write-off of non-recoverable loans and write down of
RISDA's investments in subsidiaries to reflect the book value (after losses).
Proposed terms of reference of the Committee are at Annex 4, Appendix 1.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.18     Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of
RISDA's development program is the responsibility of the Planning and
Development Division. While monitoring of the physical and financial
implementation of RISDA's development progrems is generally satisfactory,
monitoring of field performance in terms of planting and maintenance standards
achieved, yields of rubber and other crops, relative efficiency of different
replanting systems, effectiveness of different RISDA programs, etc. is very
weak. The project, by supporting the development of a computerized MIS
(para. 3.13), would improve monitoring of development programs. In addition,
it would provide for a more systematic monitoring of RISDA's performance with
emphasis on: (a) the impact of RISDA's replanting program on the productivity
of smallholders under different replanting systems (paras. 2.18 - 2.23); and
(b) the impact and effectiveness of the 'free" input supply program
(paras. 2.24 and 3.8). This M&E program would be implemented through an
improvement of the in-house analytical capability as well as more effective
linkages with universities and research institutions. To implement the M&E
system, and to define the analytical techniques and the use of the results,
the project would finance a consultant's study. Detailed terms of reference
for the study are at Annex 12.5.
4.19     Reporting.  RISDA would prepare and submit to the Bank a semi-annual
progress report on project implementation and consolidated expenditure
performance, both actual and committed, for each main category of development
work. The report would also include, as available, summary results of the M&E
activities. A Project Completion Report woula be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the loan closing date. The Bank's Supervision Plan is shown at
Annex 17.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
Crop Technology
5.1      Rubber.  Nursery grown rubber seedlings would be budgrafted at 3-5
months of age with Class 1 and other clones recommended by the RRIM. Most of
these budded plants would be transplanted into polybags for 3-4 months of
further growth before distribution, especially to group replanting schemes.
The balance of budded plauts would be distributed as bare-rooted budded
stumps, mostly to individual replanters in remoter areas. Field planting
density would be 450 trees/ha for polybag buddings and 610 trees/ha for budded
stumps. Legume cover crops would be normally established in the rubber
interrows at about the same time; alternatively, with RISDA supplied inputs,
small farmers might plant interrows with short-term cash generating crops
among which banana, papaya, corn, sweet potato and other vegetables are the
more popular.



- 28 -
5.2      Young rubber trees must be regularly weeded throughout tiheir five or
more years of immaturity to promote their vigorous growth. Weeding rounds,
monthly during the firot year, and decreasing in frequency, as tree overhead
shading develops, to tiwice per year after about six years, would use
herbicides supplied under the replanting grant. In some mini-estates, sheep
grazing might be used for maintenance but the technology and economics of the
practice are still being developed. Fertilizers, supplied under RISDA's
standard distribution program, would be applied in the crop immature period at
rates following current industry recommendations. Applications in later years
could only be assured under the mini-estate system of management but RISDA
provides fertilizers for 3 years to young mature rubber in holdings of less
than 2.8 ha. RISDA would also distribute inputs as needed for disease and
pest control in young rubber. A number of rubber stem and root diseases are
prevalent and require vigilance.
5.3      Young rubber established from polybag buddings should be tappable
within 6 years. Immaturity, however, would extend to about 7 years for the
budded stump plantings of individual smallholders. Fields are normally
brought into tapping when at least 60Z of the trees have reached tappable
size. Tapping frequency would follow the current standard practice of
alternate day tapping; individual smallholders can be expected to use more
tree-exhausting daily tapping for at least some periods of the year to
compensate for seasonal time given to other farm activities and for economic
reasons. On mini-estates, labor constraints in a relatively high cost labor
market are expected to encourage the use of latex production stimulants in
association with reduced tapping frequencies to sustain yields.
5.4      The assumed yield profile on a dry rubber basis for individual
replantings, group replantings and mini-estates, based on available data,
including that from FELDA and FELCRA, is given in Annex 18. Yields would peak
in 7 to 8 years of tapping at levels of 1,500 kg/ha for individual
smallholders, 1,650 kg/ha for group replanting and 1,700 kg/ha for mini-
estates and then decline slowly. Stimulation as a routine is assumed on mini-
estates after about the first ten years of tapping. Trees would remain in
tapping for about 25 years; yield rises in the final 3 years following
stimulation and exhaustive tapping to uneconomic levels before felling and
replanting. Total production is estimated at some 32.6 tons/ha over the life
of the planting on mini-estates, 30.0 tons/ha in group replanting schemes and
23.9 tons/ha on individual holdings for a mean annual yield of 1.3 tons/ha,
1.2 tons/ha and 1.0 ton/ha respectively. The figure for individual holdings
is about double that of unimproved smallholdings. The mean yield for mini-
estates would be about 75Z of the current average level of the estate sector.
5.5      Oil Palm.  Elite progeny seedling palms grown in RISDA nurseries or
purchased from estate suppliers, would be field planted at about one year of
age at a density of 148 palms/ha (8.8 m triangular planting). Palm interrows
would be sown with legume cover crops to enhance soil nutrient status and to
counter soil erosion particularly in terraced areas. Fertilizer provided
under the replanting grant would be applied at current industry recommended
rates during palm immaturity. Once in production, palm nutrient requirements
would be determined by annual soil and foliar analyses under contracted
services. As for rubber, interrow maintenance with herbicides would be a
monthly routine in the first year after planting, decreasing to twice yearly
after about four years. Sheep grazing as an alternate weed control system



- 29 -
might be used on some mini-estates.  Pest control is likely to be important in
all plantations near jungle fringes and swamps where wild boar and rats
commonly cause significant losses of young palms. Protection against wild
boar involves field or individual plant fencing at considerable cost.
Diseases in palm plantations are of little importance.
5.6      The first fruit bunches should be ready for harvesting late in the
third year of planting. Production would extend over 25 years when, due to the
difficulty of cutting the bunches and low yields, the stand would be ready for
replanting. Harvesting would be done by the farmers of the groups or under
contract; bunch transport to the factory would also be contracted. The
assumed yield profile for mini-estates and individual replantings is given in
Annex 18. Yields on mini-estates would peak at about 20 tons ffblha within
about 7 years and, after a short stable period, would gradually decline. Mean
annual ffb production over the life of the plantings is estimated at 16
tons/ha, about 25Z below the levels of larger estates. Total production would
amount to 400 tons ffb/ha, equivalent to some 78.3 tons/ha of crude palm oil
(CPO) and 22.4 tons/ha of palm kernels (PK). For individual smallholders,
yields would peak at about 18 tons ffb/ha and mean annual ffb production over
the life of the plantings would be about 13 tons ffb/ha.
5.7      Diversified Crops.  In line with the Government's policy to promote
diversification, RISDA would encourage planting of diversified crops, mainly
non-citrus fruits, such as banana. rambutan, durian and mango, and vegetables,
all with good local demand. Some farmers will also continue to plant cocoa,
although this will not be supported by the Bank. Vegetables, as a cash crop
in the interrows of young rubber, would also be encouraged for small farmers
using agricultural input grants. To be acceptable, new crops must offer
prospects of sustained -4sh returns at least as attractive as those from
traditional crops and without undue risk or significantly higher labor
requirements. This program would remain small in the foreseeable future as
major efforts are required to develop suitable production technology in
respect of varieties (especially for fruits), agronomic practices arnd post-
harvest technology for diversified crops.  Agricu4ltural inputs for diversified
crops would be supplied by RISDA based on recommendations of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Harvesting and marketing cf produce, however, would be the
responsibility of the growers.
Crop Production, Processing and Marketing
5.8      Rubber.   Production from the project would peak at about 180,000
tons around year 2003. This production would be about 10 of Malaysia's
projected rubber production at that time. Rubber latex would be sold in the
liquid form, as cup lump or processed into sheets for air or smoke drying, the
choice depending on the market facilities available to the producer and the
prices of the different forms of the commodity. RISDA encourages the
individual farmers to process their produce into clean sheets at the Group
Processing Centers for sale through their cooperatives but farmers may choose
to sell to dealers indepeudently or as a group on a tender basis. Many
farmers currently prefer to sell cup lump direct to dealers for a
significantly lower price but with much less labor input. Farmers within the
collection range of the Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation (MARDEC) may
sell their latex directly to its factory. Producers in group schemes and
mini-estates would sell fresh latex or produce sheet rubber. Sheet rubber may
be sold to dealers by tender or to RISDA smokehouses if available in the area.



- 30 -
5.9      Palm Oil.  Production from the project would peak at about 900,000
tons of ffb, which would yield some 180,000 tons of CPO (at an average
extraction rate of 20?) and 45,000 tons of PK (at 52 recovery rate) around
year 2002. This production would be about 1.7Z of Malaysia's CPO and PK
projected production at that time. Fresh fruit bunches would be sold
individually or under contract to local processing mills either of the private
or parastatal sector. Bunch prices are based on gazetted oil pricc3 and
agreed oil and kernel extraction rates and transport charges. In some areas,
ffb may be sold on the farm to traders. Mill facilities are generally
adequate throughout the country.
International and Domestic Market Prospects
5.10     Natural rubber's share of the world market in elastomers has
stabilized at about 32Z. World demand for natural rubber is expected to
increase at an average rate of about 2.4? p.a. in the 1988-2000 period.
Malaysian natural rubber production is expected to increase gradually from
about 1.6 million tons in 1988 to about 1.8 million tons in 2000. This would
imply a reduction in Malaysia's share of world production from about 33? in
1988 to about 28? in year 2000 and in its share of world exports from about
42? in 1988 to 36? in 2000. The slow growth in Malaysian rubber production
would be due mainly to labor constraints. World demand for palm oil is
expected to grow at about 5.2? per annum over 1988-2000. Malaysia's share of
world production is expected to increase from 59Z in 1988 to 64Z in year 2000,
and exports from 73Z to 83? during the same period. In absolute terms,
Malaysia's national production and gross exports of palm oil are expected to
reach 10.4 million tons and 9.8 million tons, respectively, in year 2000
compared to the actual 5.0 million tons and 4.8 million tons, respectively, in
1988. The above projections for rubber and palm oil include incremental
production from RISDA's replanting programs.
5.11     Domestic absorption of rubber was only about 100,000 tons in 1988,
even though it has expanded significantly over the last two years due to
rubber glove manufacturing. Though further growth in latex-based products is
likely, growth in other domestic uses of rubber is at present uncertaitn. A
feasibility study is being conducted by the Malaysian Industrial Development
Authority to assess the prospects of making Malaysia a major exporter of tyres
which will help achieve the objective of reaching local consumption of 300,000
tons of rubber by the year 2000. Domestic market prospects for Malaysia's
palm oil are bright due to a quickly expanding local downstream processing and
considerable ongoing research, principally at PORIM, in new uses of palm oil.
The most promising development of the industry is in the area of oleo-
chemicals. Since 1984, Malaysian palm oil processing has moved downstream and
an estimated 150,000 tons of oleochemicals (fatty acids, methylesters and
glycerines) were produced in 1988. The projection for the end-1990s is
600,000 - 700,000 tons a year. In 1980, less than 1Z of world production of
oleochemicals was derived from palm oil. By 1988, this had jumped to 1OZ?
with Malaysia accounting for about 60? of the total. Another potential area
is pharmaceuticals and PORIM set up the first pilot plant in the world to
extract high purity vitamin E from palm fatty acid distillate, a by-product of
physical refining of palm oil. The pilot project was successfully completed
in 1988. Commercial production by the industry may start in the near future.



- 31 -
Commodity Prlices
5.12     As projected by the Bank,  rubber prices would be about 32 lower in
real terms in year 2000 compared to 1988 and palm oil and palm kernel prices
about 62 lower. For economic analysis, the Bank's projected prices, converted
to 1988 constant terms on the basis of the Manufacturing Unit Value (MUV)
index, were used. Rubber, palm oil and kernel are exportables and economic
farmgate prices were, therefore, estimated from f.o.b. pri:_s (Annexes 19.1
and 19.2). Economic prices for diversified crops were not estimated as these
crops together would be only 102 of project replantings; their benefits were
assumed to be equal to those from oil palm ffb.
5.13     Domestic rubber prices follow the HRELB daily quotations with
appropriate deductions for transport, processing charges and duties and
cesses.  The financial farmgate prices for rubber are lower than economic
farmgate prices due to exclusion of export duties and replanting cess from the
latter.  Financial farmgate prices for oil palm ffb also diverge, though to a
much lesser extent, from economic farmgate prices due to export duties on CPO:
with graduated duty exemption on processed palm oil according to the stage of
processing.  Domestic ffb prices are based on PORLA gazetted price, 4/ less
processing, CPO and PK transport cost and other incidental costs.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
6.1      The main project benefits would be:  (a) improved productivity and
farm incomes for rubber smallholders, who are the biggest poverty group in
the country and many of whom are at prasent earning less than the poverty
income of M$ 380 (US$140) per month per family of five; (b) increased
export earnings from rubber and palm oil and increased production of
diversified crops; and (c) increased institutional efficiency of RISDA in
delivery of services to the rubber smallholder sector. Some 104,000 rubber
smallholders are expected tD benefit from the project, including new
replanters and those who replanted prior to the project, but whose farms
would receive early maintenance support from the project. At full
development around the year 2003, net foreign exchange earnings and savings
from project incremental production (using projected world market prices
for the year 2000 in 1988 constant dollars) would be about US$ 230 million
per year. The improvement in RISDA's effectiveness as an institution would
be an important contribution to the government's poverty alleviation
program and would improve the productivity of government expenditures. The
project would also directly benefit women workers in the rubber subsector.
Financial Analysis
6.2      Smallholder Incomes.  Since replantings would be overwhelmingly
for rubber and oil palm, farm income analysis has been done for these two
crops only under the individual replanting system. The farm model assumes
4/ PORLA gazetted price is published monthly based cn the industry-wide
average price of traded CPO in the preceding month.



- 32 -
that about two ha would be replanted and labor during the production phase
would be provided by the family. Net monthly farm incomes from rubber
would peak at M$ 564 in the 14th year after planting and from oil palm at
M$ 416 in the 10th year after planting. These incomes in most years are
mich higher than the income the smallholder would get (M$ 100-120 per
month) from tapping old rubber trees for a few years without replanting.
These incomes would, therefore, provide sufficient incentive to
smallholders to participate in the replanting program. It should be
stressed that household incomes, as distinct from the above farm incomes,
could be higher depending on the availability of additional farm land and
off-fzrm employment opportunities.
Table 6.1: FARM INCOME
(M$)
Average Annual                    Average Monthly
Crop                  Year of Development                Year of Development
10       11-23       24-28         10       11-23       24-28
Rubber            3,116      4,991      3,484        260         416         290
Oil Palm          4,382      4,302      3,340        365         359         278
6.3      Cost Recovery.  As discussed in para. 2.17 and Annex 7, the export duty
and replanting cess on rubber, compared to the replanting grant (and free inputs
for mature rubber for some smallholders), represent a net tax. The costs of
replanting, therefore, are fully recovered over the life of the rubber trees.
The smallholders replanting with oil palm and other crops will not be paying
these duties and cesses (though oil palm growers will be paying export duties on
palm oil), but they will also not be entitled to an, further replanting grants.
The present value of contributions they ride as rubber smallholders already
exceeds the present value of the replanting grant they would receive during the
project period. Supplementary mini-estate development costs are to be fully
recovered from participants after mini-estates reach the production stage.
Economic Analysis
6.4      Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  The ERR for the project is estimated at
about 14Z (Annex 20) or. the basis of the following methodology: (a) only
replantings from 1990 onwards are included. If prior plantings to be
maintained under the project were included, the ERR would increase to about 25Z,
assuming costs before 1990 as sunk costs; (b) since replanting grants for
diversified crops are the same as for oil palm and costs are similar, the
economic costs and benefits of these crops (which would be only about 1OZ of the
project replantings) have been assumed to be the same as those of oil palm;
(c) income foregone from tapping old rubber for 10 years has been deducted from
the benefit stream and sale of rubber wood added to the benefit in the first
year; (d) costs are estimated in 1988 constant Malaysian ringgits and benefits
from rubber and oil palm are calculated on the basis of economic farm-gate
prices (Annexes 19.1 and 19.2) derived from the Bank's price projections of June
1989, adjusted to 1988 constant US dollars using the MUV index, and converted to
ringgits at the official exchange rate; and (e) market wage rates have been used



- 33 -
as no significant distortions in the labor market are evident. The estimated
crop rates of return are about 122 for replanting with rubber and about 212 for
replanting with oil palm. Despite its less favorable rate of return, rubber
would be the crop choice in many areas for a variety of technical and economic
reasons discussed in para. 1.10.
6.5      Sensitivity Analysis.  The results of a sensitivity analysis show that
the project remains viable across a range of assumptions on costs and benefits.
The switching value test shows that costs would have to increase by 28S or
benefits decrease by 222 to lower the project ERR from 14? to 1OZ, the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Malaysia. While the probability of cost
increases is low, a decline in benefits, particularly if prices turn out to be
lower than projected, cannot be ruled out. Hotiever, a price level 22Z lower
than projected for both rubber and palm oil, while possible in some years
(particularly for palm oil, given its high price volatility), appears unlikely
over the entire 32-year period of analysis. The project can also withstand a
three-year delay in the benefit stream without the ERR going below 10X.
Environmental Effects
6.6      The project is not expected to have any significant adverse
environmental impacts. Land development would be confined to areas already in
use for agriculture and would not involve any felling of forests. There would
be no construction of access roads to schemes through primary forest or other
environmentally sensitive areas. Development of tree crops under widely varying
topographical conditions is basically protective of soils in equatorial
climates. Root systems of young trees quickly bind soil aggregates in the
manner of a forest and the tree canopies protect the soil surface from erosion
within a few years.  Further, and particularly in hilly areas, it is standard
practice to plant legume cover crops as soon as land clearing has been completed
and these rapidly cover the soil surface with a thick protective mat of
vegetation. Areas planted to crops other than rubber and especially oil palm,
will almost always be on gentler terrain with a low risk of erosion. The
maintenance of rubber and oil palm particularly in their immature years
routinely involves the use of herbicides. However, Malaysia has strict
registration and effectively implemented regulations on the use of agricultural
chemicals and risks from the use of herbicides in the project are considered
minimal.5/ It is also noted that RISDA encourages farmers receiving chemicals to
attend training sessions on their safe application. The project will not
construct any crop processing facilities; production will be channeled to
existing public and private sector factories all of which are subject to
stringent and well enforced pollution control laws.
Impact on Women
6.7      The project will make a modest beginning towards increased training of
women workers in rubber smallholdings. It is estimated that about 2,500 women
would be trained at RISDA's Training Institutes and about 15,000 in villages
during the project period. Moreov-:, recording of trainees by gender, which
5/ Malaysian law bans the use of harmful chemicals and pesticides, and
none of those currently used by RISDA is included in the Bank's
Checklist of Pesticides not Recommended for Use in Agriculture or
Suitable only for Restricted Use (OPN 11.01).



- 34 -
would be initiated under the project (para. 3.12), would provide valuable
information for the planning of future extension and training services for women
in the rubber subsector.
Risks
6.8      The main project risk relates to the component for RISDA's
reorganization and institutional strengthening. Institutional reform is a
complex process and could turn out to be slower than currently envisaged. To
minimize this risk, a step-by-step approach, based on both already agreed
actions and studies which will lay the basis for subsequent actions, has been
adopted. Special efforts were devoted during project preparation and appraisal
to achieve a consensus on the direction and substance of RISDA's institutional
change, and sufficient lead time has been allowed for institutional actions.
Significant institutional reforms have already been initiated by the Government
since the change in RISDA's top management in May 1989. It is, therefore,
expected that the institutional component would be implemented as envisaged.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1      As a condition of loan effectiveness, GOM would furnish to the Bank
RISDA's audited financial statements for 1987 (para. 4.16).
7.2      During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the following:
(a) RISDA would not intervene administratively to enforce a specific crop
ratio on replanters (para. 3.5);
(b) RISDA would upgrade access road specifications to those for
agricultural roads, create a new accounts code for infrastructure
maintenance and earmark adequate funds for maintenance from its
development budget allocations for infrastructure (para. 3.10);
(c) RISDA would begin to record number of smallholder trainees by gender,
endeavor to increase the number of women trainees at RISDA Training
Institutes and expand facilities for in situ training of women in
villages (para. 3.12);
(d) a computerized MIS would be implemented at RISDA in accordance with
an agreed schedule (para. 3.13);
(e) by September 30 of each year, GOM would consult with the Bank on
RISDA's annual work program and its funding for each following year
of the project (para. 4.2);
(f)  RISDA's reorganizatio.  and strengthening would be implemented as
follows: (i) head offica reorganization would be completed by the end
of 1990; (ii) field level reorganization and decentralization would
be substantially completed by the end of 1992; (iii) measures would
be undertaken to strengthen role of the extension staff; (iv) NARSCO
would assume RISDA's marketing operations by the end of 1990; (v)
RISDA's cooperatives would become self-financing beginning 1992; (vi)



- 35 -
a decision on the future of Schemes 1956 and 1959, which manage
RISDA's nurseries and estates, would be taken by the end of 1990; and
(vii) RISDA's credit activities would be discontinued (except for
the credit component of mini-estate development costs) by the end of
1990 (para.4.12);
(g)  GOM and RISDA would have studies relating to mini-estates,
cooperatives and NARSCO, Schemes 1956 and 1959, technical evaluation
of the Muar computerization project and establishment of a monitoring
and evaluation system, completed by September 30, 1990 by independent
consultants, whose qualifications and terms of reference would be
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.14);
(h) RISDA's audited accounts through 1989 would be available to the Bank
by the end of 1990 (para. 4.16); and
(i)  the Write-Off Committee would continue during the project period
(para. 4.17).
7.3      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loa., of US$71.0 million to Malaysia.  The loan would have a repayment
period of 17 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
RISDA' OrgmnkNorsl Chart
RIBDAs Board
De"G=lI                                 De,j~                         I
kWIC¢ Ede*Mwk_                                  a       PIsoe
-                            F                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
8t o RISDA
omoeL
. .. .... 



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
RlSDA's Fbid Level Orgnb*Ion
mmn EsItso   Transpor                      InformatonTri
AdministratI  Pmlncio
,UPPON     FWdm      AdrWnioMon                     Mni Eea                Rehabltillon
RepIantinB
E|=M
S  z                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~kKA0



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
MAIAYSI
RISDA PROJECT
RISDA's Future Replanting Program
1.       In the growing of rubber, the annual rate of replanting is a
critical factor in ensuring the continuing vigor of the industry. lt
provides for the cyclic rejuvenation of old plantings through the
replacement of trees of low vigor and productivity, generally at the end of
their economic life, with trees of high yielding potential. Through this
mechanism, the industry also has the continuing opportunity to take
advantage of the latest high yielding clones and other advances in planting
technologies.  Rubber is normally considernd to have an economic life of
thirty years from planting.
Replanting Performance To Date
2.       Malaysia's cess financed rubber replanting program which covers
both smallholdings and estates was launched in 1953 and to the end of 1988
some 769,000 ha of smallholdings had been planted/replanted with rubber.
In addition, some 226,000 ha have been replanted with other crops,
principally oil palm (123,000 ha) but these areas are not eligible for
future replanting assistance. About 90% of the rubber planted area
consisted of first round replanting of existing rubber while the balance
includes small areas of land not previously in rubber (new plantings and
extensions to existing rubber plots) and second round replanting of areas
earlier planted to rubber under the cess program. Second round replanting
of rubber planted in earlier years of the cess program occurred for the
first time in 1974 (eligibility for cess assistance is on a minimum 20 year
cycle) and to end 1968 some 104,000 ha had been replanted for the second
time. A further 179,000 ha are estimated to be due for replanting (para
8).
3.       The annual rate of replanting has varied widely over the years
largely in response to the fluctuating commodity price but there have also
been effects of budget constraints, particularly in more recent years.
From a moderate beginning in 1953, annual replanting climbed within a few
years above 20,000 ha and during most of the sixties was in the range of
25,000 to 40,000 ha. Some 400,000 ha had been replanted with rubber by end
1968. Since that time the annual rate of replanting with rubber has
remained below 25,000 ha due among other factors to an increasing
preference for replanting with other crops; in many years including most
recent ones there has only been some 10,000-15,000 ha (40-50% of the total)
of replanting to rubber. These varying annual rates have an important
bearing on the future scope of RISDA's replanting program. Table 1 shows
progress of replanting over the 1953-1988 period.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
Crog Cycles for RISDA Plantings
4.       The normal thirty year crop cycle for rubber assumes that the
trees are of good provenance, were well established in inmatarity and have
been maintained in a vigorous and healthy condition and carefully exploited
during maturity.  This assumption does not hold, however, for lxrge areas
of RISDA plantings, in particular those of the first two decades because of
the type of tree planted and the low average level of smallholder
technology input into the crop. Thus from 1953 to 1971, no less than
165,000 ha or 36% of the total plantings of the period were planted with
seedling trees, much of suspect clonal provenance. Today a large
proportion of these areas are in generally poor condition and, by modern
standards, poor yielding. All areas replanted with seedlings are assumed
to have a twenty year crop cycle and would be accorded eligibility for
second round replanting on a priority basis.
5.       The balance of 295,000 ha of plantings in period up to 1971
consisted of clonal budgrafts. Host of the clones used, however, were of
of an older generation without the production potential of more modern
materials. Furthermore, as for the seedlings, levels of field technology
applied by the smallholders to much of this area were of a low standard and
accordingly, the trees are in poor vigor or in poor tappable condition. It
is RISDA's view that farmers would want to and should replant these stands
earlier than normal. Accordingly, a 25 year crop cycle is assumed for all
clonal areas planted prior to 1972.
6.       From 1972, the use of seedling planting material in RISDA's
program was discontinued and only clonal budgrafts have been used since
that time. Current modern clones have made up an increasing proportion of
the clones used since that time and the standards of field technology have
been improving slowly, but crop potential of plantings of the seventies
remains below that of the latest plantings. Thus it would not be realistic
to assume a thirty year productive life for these areas. Many can be
expected to be in need of replanting after about 25 years. Therefore, for
planning purposes, the replanting needs of the period 1972-1980 are
considered in two phases to take account of the improving levels of field
technology.   It is assumed that 50% of the plantings of 1972 to 1976 would
be ready for replanting after 25 years and 50% after 30 years, while for
the period 1977 to 1980 the percentages would be 25% and 75% respectively.
All plantings from 1981 would be considered as having a thirty year cycle.
7.       Based on these crop cycle assumptions, the estimated area due for
replanting annually from the first due year 1973 up to year 2015 are shown
in Table 2 along with the cumulative totals over these years. A total of
about 716,000 ha should be second-round replanted by 2015. In addition,
from 2004, there will be areas eligible for third round replanting and
approximately 39,000 ha are expected to be eligible up to 2015, based on
the areas replanted to rubber for the second time in the years 1974 to
1985. The total requirement for second and third round replanting up to
2015 is about 755,000 ha. This is some 651,000 ha above the cumulative
performance to 1988 and is indicative of a 24,000 average annual rate.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
RISDA's Second Round Reglantil.e Performance
8.       The progress of second round replanting of rubber areas with all
eligible crops up to 1988 is shown in Table 3. Cumulative achievement is
about 104,000 ha, only about 37% of the projected area of 283,000 ha in
need of replanting (Table 2). It will be noted that only about 39,000 ha
or 38% of this total have been planted with rubber reflecting the very
strong preference for other crops in recent years. The balance of area
estimated to be still in need of second replanting is ebout 179,000 ha.
Second replantings after a slow start attained 10,000 ha/year by 1983 and
have averaged about 12,000 ha/year from 1986 at a time when RISDA'S total
annual replanting performance ranged from 31,000 to 37,000 ha. There is
clearly an increasing demand for second round replanting but performance is
constrained by budget and the priority that must be given to first round
needs.
Future First Round Rellantine
9.       To be eligible for the replanting grant, holdings must not only be
titled and planted to a defined proportion of rubber, but they must also be
registered with RISDA as rubber growing areas. As of the end of 1988, the
total registrations were 1,167,046 ha of which some 865,000 ha had been
replanted. The balance of 302,000 ha, 26% of the total, would appear to
need assistance. However, neither the agricultu;.al condition of these
areas nor their future use is known. Many of the plantings may have been
abandoned and there may also be significrnt areas of disputed title. In
the planning of the future replanting program, these registered but
unimproved areas should be accorded priority for replanting assistance as
the applications come forward.
10.      In addition to the total registered area, RISDA believes that
there may be a further 150,000 ha not yet registered including some FELDA
schemes, semi-abandoned State Fringe schemes, aboriginal lands and
miscellaneous smallholdings. Many of these can be expected to qualify for
cess assistance. However, in the absence of any definitive data on this
category, these areas have not been brought into the planning process at
this time.
11.      Based on the apparent total of 300,000 ha of old rubber yet to be
replanted for the first time, the annual replanting program for the 12
years 1989 to 2000 should endeavor to clear this backlog through a priority
targeting of 25,000 ha of first round replanting annually. The situation
would need to be reviewed regularly and adjusted in light of performance
levels.
Annual Rate of Replanting for 1989-1992
12.      The annual replanting target will be 38,500 ha in years 1989 and
1990 and 40,000 ha in years 1991 and 1992. Assuming continuation of the
current rubber crop ratio of about 60%, these rates of replanting would
provide for some 23,100 ha and 24,000 ha of new rubber/year respectively



- 42 -
ANNE 3
Page 4 of 6
entering the cyclic program for future replanting. These data are
reflected in the last section of Table 1.
Annual Rate of Replanting after 1992
13.      Although it is desirable that the annual rate of smallholders'
replanting over the long term equates with the target crop cycle of 30
years, for RISDA's rubber smallholder program there are two interim
priority factors which will delay attainment of that target.  These have
already been discussed, namely the need to attend to the 300,000 ha of
registered rubber not yet replanted (para 9), and the 179,000 ha of first
replantings which are overdue for second round replanting (para 8). The
base scenario used in estimating a suiitable future replanting performance
after 1992 is a continuing annual replanting rate of 40,000 ha/year up to
the year 2015. The results are shown in Table 3. It will be noted that
the replanting backlog reaches a peak of about 242,000 ha in 1992 but, more
significantly, the backlog remains in excess of 200,000 ha for 11 years
from 1990 to 2000 reflecting the high levels of replanting during most of
the sixties. After year 2000, the 40,000 ha annual program starts to eat
into the accu ulated area due for second and third round replanting and
the entire re,'anting backlog would be eliminated by 2009 (in fact,
virtually by 2108). After that, the size of the replanting program would
be e-ntirely governed by the areas falling due for replanting. Following on
the reduced level of rubber replanting in the eighties, the program in 2009
and 2010 would decline precipitously to less than 20,000 ha/year, recover
briefly to 28,000 to 30,000 ha/year during 2011-2013, and then not exceed
24,000 ha/year thereafter. Thus from 2009, RISDA replanting operations
would have to be significantly reduced.
Scenarios of Accelerated Annual Programs
14.      Since a replanting rate of 40,000 ha/year would require 21 years
to eliminate the replanting backlog, a number of variations on the rate
were considered to possibly reduce this period. Rates examined, starting
from 1993, were 45,000, 50,000, 55,000 and 60,000 ha/year, representing
increases of 12% to 50% over RISDA's current performance. The effects of
increasing the rates to 45,000 and 50,000 ha/year from 1991 were also
considered. The results are as follows:
l)At 40,000 ha/yr, all overdue replanting would be completed by... 2009
2).. 45,000 ha/yr ............. 2006
3).. 50,000 ha/yr ............. 2004
4).. 55,000 ha/yr ............. 2003
5).. 60,000 ha/yr . ............. 2002
6).. 45,000 ha/yr from 1991, all replanting would be completed by 2006
7).. 50,000 ha/yr .............                                     2004
15.      The results show that an acceleration to 45,000 ha/yr would
advance the elimination of the backlog by only three years and even an
acceleration to 60,000 ha/yr would only gain a further four years. There
is no realistic way to eliminate the large replanting backlog before the
early years of the next century.  Further, to achieve accelerated



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
replanting, there would be the need to expand RISDA's staff and other
resources which would have to be drastically reduced as soon as the backlog
had been cleared.
16.      Other considerations could be the short term acceleration of the
replanting program. Increasing replanting to say 50,000 ha/yr from 1993 up
to the year 2000, phasing it back to 45,000 ha/yr over the following five
years and then to 40,000 ha/yr would only remove the backlog one year
earlier, in 2005, compared to the constant 45,000 ha/yr scenario.
Increasing the replanting rate to 45,000/50,000 ha/yr from 1991 onwards to
coincide with the start of the Sixth Plan period would not bring any
meaningful gains.
Conclusions
17.      Although there is all estimated current backlog of second round
replanting of some 179,000 ha, an analysis of various rates of replanting
for the future years shows clearly that these overdue areas cannot be
cleared through feasible programs before about 2006. In contrast,
continuing with the targeted annual replanting rate of 40,000 ha/yr from
1991 would achieve the same result by 2009. The gain from higher
replanting rates would only be marginal and would leave RISDA with
subsequent problems of surplus staff resources. The over-riding
constraints to a better performance are the needs to complete by year 2000
the estimated 300,000 ha of registered rubber land still to come into first
round replanting (and to be targeted for clearance at the rate of 25,000
ha/yr from 1989), the high levels of planting in the sixties now due for
attention and the large area already overdue for second round replanting.
18.      In the light of the above considerations, RISDA's annual rate of
replanting, which is scheduled to increase to 40,000 ha/year by 1991,
should remain at about that level for the foreseeable future including the
early years of the next century. There should not be any increase in staff
for the purpose of clearing the replanting backlog as realistic gains could
only be achieved with unrealistically high rates of replanting.
19.      The replanting rates during the project period will be 38,500 ha
in 1990 and 40,000 ha each in 1991 and 1992. These rates are considered
feasible on the basis of demand for replanting from farmers as well as
RISDA's current implementation capacity. The demand from smallholders will
not present a problem for meeting these targets considering the backlog of
never replanted areas (paras. 9-11) and the excess applications pending
with RISDA from smallholders wishing to enter second-round replanting.
From the point of view of implementation capacity, RISDA had attained
annual replanting rates as high as 45,000 ha in the 1960s. The replanting
rate, though relatively low in the seventies and early eighties, has been
accelerating since 1987, and the 1989 replanting target of 38,500 ha is
expected to be achieved. Project targets are very close to these recent
achievements. The proposed reorganization of RISDA is not expeceed to have
any significant adverse impact on the field program. On the contrary,
productivity might improve significantly since the expected dissolution of
RISDA's Marketi~ng Division by the end of 1989 would release about 150 staff



- 44 -
ANNEX3
Page 6 of 6
for the field programs and the head office divisions, including the
Replenting Division (at appraisal in April 1989, about 40 marketing staff
had already been transferred to the field). It should also be noted that
project replanting targets include replantings undertaken by FELDA and
FELCRA, which have become increasingly important in recent years, and the
replantings to be done directly by RISDA are, therefore, not substantially
larger than in the past.



Annex 3
- 45             ~                          Table 1
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Progress of Replanting (hectares) 1953-1992, and Crop Cycles
Area          Cumulative               Crop Cycle of Replanted Areas
Replanted          Area              20 yrs         25 yrs          30 yrs
Year      with Rubber        Replanted         (seedlingb) (older clones) (modern clones)
1953        11,927            11,927              3,041           8,886             -
1954          9,146           21,073              7,088           2,058             -
1955        10,22t,           31,297              9,866             358             -
1956        18,825            50,122             14,232           4,593             -
1957        20,170            70,292             13,171           6,999
1958        24,137            94,429             14,458           9,679
1959        29,892           124,321             16,949          12,943
1960        30,905           155,226              9,241          21,664
1961        26,935           182,161              9,346          17,589
±962        31.43           213,504              9,748          21,595
196?        37,741           251,245             11,172          26,569
1964        36,969           288,214              8,540          28,429
1965        41,423           329,637              8,450          32,973
1966        21,639           351,276              6,146          15,493
1967        32,.-2           383,538              3,355          28,907             -
1968         15,844          399,382              5,276          10,568             -
1969         15,150          414,532              4,545          10,605             -
1970        21,538           436,070              6,181          15,357             -
1971        23,267           459,337              3,862          19,405             -
1972        23,422           482,759                  -          11,711        11,711
1973        22,402           505,161                  -          11,201        11,201
1974        23,630           528,791                  -          11,815        11,815
1975        21,107           549,898                  -          10,553        10,554
1976        14,307           564,205                  -           7,153         7,154
1977        12,884           577,089                  -           3,221         9,663
1978        13,320           590,409                  -           3,330         9,990
1979        14,230           604,639                  -           3,557        10,673
1980        15,331           619,970                  -           3,833        11,498
1981        22,216           642,186                  -               -        22,216
1982        23,428           665,614                  -               -        23,428
1983        22,746           688,360                  -               -        22,746
1984        17,405           705,765                  -               -        17,405
1985        10,719           716,484                  -               -        10,719
1986        12,910           729,394                  -               -        12,91u
1987        16,816           746,210                  -               -        16,816
1988        22,642           768,852                  -               -        22,642
1989 est    23,100           791,952                  -               -        23,100
1990 est    23,100           851,052                  -               -        23,100
1991 est    24,000           839,052                  -               -        24,000
1992 est    24,000           863,052                  -               -        24,000
et seq                                                            et seq



- 46 -                   ~~~~~Annex 3
Table 2
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Areas for Replanting (ha). 1973-2015
Annual Area            Annual Area              Cumulative
Year           due for 2nd         (Rubber) due for         Annual Areas due
Replanting           3rd Replanting           for Replanting
19`3               3,041                      -                    3,041
1974               7,088                      -                   10,3.29
19,5               9,866                      -                   19,9S5
1976              14,232                      -                   34,227
1977              13,171                      -                   47,398
1978              23,344                      -                   70,742
1979              19,007                      -                   89,749
1980               9,599                      -                   99,348
1981.             13,939                      -                  113,287
1982              16,747                      -                  130,034
1983              23,851                      -                  150,885
1984              21,483                      -                  172,368
1985              30,114                      -                  202,482
1986              23,735                      -                  226,217
1987              24,950                      -                  251,167
1988              31,845                      -                  283,012
1989              32,974                      -                  315,986
1990              39,154                      -                  355,140
1991              19,355                      -                  374,495
1992              28,907                      -                  403,402
1993              10,568                      -                  413.970
1994              10,605                      -                  424.575
1995              15,357                      -                  439,932
1996              19,405                      -                  459,337
1997              11,711                      -                  471,048
1998              11,201                      -                  482,249
1999              11,815                      -                  494,064
2000              10,553                      -                  504,617
2001               7,153                      -                  511,770
2002              14,932                      -                  526,702
2003              14,531                      -                  541,233
2004              15,372                    330                  556,935
2005              14,387                 1,175                   572,497
2006               7,154                 1,318                   580,969
2007               9,663                 2,002                   592,634
2008               9,953                 2,428                   605,052
2009              10,673                 3,183                   618,908
2010              11,498                 3,573                   633,979
2011              22,216                 5,430                   661,625
2012              23,428                 6,100                   691,153
2013              22,746                 6,050                   719,949
2014              17,405                 4,489                   741,843
2015              10,719                 2,877                   755,439
Total          716,484                38,955



- 47                             Annx-
Table 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Progress of 2nd and 3rd Round ReRlanting up to 2015
Cumulative           Area           Cumulative         Due Area
Year         Area due for          2nd/3rd        Area 2nd/3rd         remaining
2nd/3rd Replanting    Replanted          Replanted       Un-replanted
1973              3,041                 -                  -              3,041
1974             10,129               433                433              9,696
1975             19,562             1,819             2,252              17,743
1976             31,975             1,697             3,949              30,278
1977             43,449             2,670             6,619              40,779
1978             64,123             3,603            10,222              60,520
1979             79,527             5,173            15,395              74,354
1980             83,953             5,913            21,308              78,040
1981             91,979             7,617            28,925              84,362
1982            101,109             9,226            38,151              91,883
1983            112,734            10,098            48,249             102,636
1984            124,119            10,081            58,330             114,038
1985            144,152             9,086            67,416            135,066
1986            158,801            12,141            79,557            146,660
1987            171,610            12,345            91,902            159,265
1988            191,110            12,345           104,247            178,765
1989            211,739            13,446           117,693            198,293
1990            237,447            13,446           131,139            224,301
1991            243,356            15,000           146,139            228,356
1992            257,263            15,000           161,139            242,263
1993            252,831            15,000           176,139            237,831
1994            248,436            15,000           191,139            233,436
1995            248,793            15,000           206,139            233,793
1996            253,198            15,000           221,139            238,198
1997            249,909            15,000           236,139            234,909
1998            246,110            15,000           251,139            231,110
1999            242,925            15,000           266,139            227,925
2000            238,478            15,000           281,139            223,478
2001            230,631            40,000           321,139            190,631
2002            205,563            40,000           361,139            165,563
2003            180,094            40,000           401,139            140,094
2004            155,796            40,000           441,139            115,796
2005            131,358            40,000           481,139             91,358
2006             99,830            40,000           521,139             59,830
2007             71,495            40,000           561,139             31,495
2008             43,913            40,000           601,139               3,913
2009             17,769            17,769           618,908                   -
2010             15,071            15,071           633,979                   _
2011             27,646            27,646           661,625                   _
2012             29,528            29,528           691,153                   -
2013             28,796            28,796           719,949                   _
2014             21,894            21,894           741,843                   _
2015             13,596            13,596           755,439                   _



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 5
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
RISDA'S FINANCIAL CONDITION
1.          RISDA's accounts have not been audited and finalized for fiscal
years (FY) ending December 31, 1987 through 1988. The following analysis is,
therefore preliminary but nevertheless indicative of RISDA's financial
condition.
2.          As of December 31, 1987, RISDA's total assets amounted to M$757.4
million, which represented a growth rate of approximately 72 p.a. over the
asset base of M$571.4 million as of December 31, 1983 (Table 1). Of the total
assets of M$757.4 million, fixed assets SM$55 million) and investments in
plantations (M1191 million) accounted for about 72 and 252 respectively;
smallholder and other acLaunts (M$401 million) for 53Z; and bank accounts
(M$lll million) for 14.62. The unaudited accounts indicate that RISDA
continues to remain a reasonably liquid organization.
3.          Of the M$401 million in smallholder and other accounts category,
approximately MS62 million was due from the Government on the cess account,
M$206 million was granted in loans to smallholders (of which approximatel
M$126 million was lent to smallholders under the mini-estate program and M$80
million under SEPENTAS), while the balance represents other accounts.
4.          RISDA's assets have been Largely financed through subventions from
the cess fund, which is recorded under two subheadings, namely, the
smallholder cess account and the estate cess account. These two accounts
represented some 422 (M$320 million) and 202 (M$151 million) respectively of
the total resources as of end 1987. The smallholder credit scheme and the
staff housing loan revolving fund totalled MS84 million or 112 of total
resources. Funds received and earmarked for a specific purpose included (a)
M$115.4 million in loans for mini estates and SEPENTAS; (b) MS5.9 million in
loans to establish a staff car loan revolving fund; (c) an initial revolving
fund of M$65.l million for purchase of smallholder produce (reduced to M$39
million by December 31, 1988, the difference representing accumulated losses);
and (d) a marketing loan of M$13.2 million, which was used to purchase plant
and equipment, mostly smokehouses, to market smallholder produce.
5.          As of December 31, 1988, Government had committed a total of M$188
million in loans to be made available under the various loan schemes outlined
above. As of the same date, RISDA had drawn down M$144 million in loans. The
terms and conditions of the loans are as followss



- 49 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
Amount         Interest   Repayment   Grace
(M$ million)     Rate       Period    Period   Annual      Repayment
Purpose    Committed Drawn  (2)         (Years)   (Years) Installment  Period
Marketing   11.3    11.3    7.5         15          3      12          1987-1998
1.9     1.9    8.0        15          3       12         1990-2001
1.1     -
Subtotal    14.3    13.2
Mini Estates 6.6      6.6     0.0       25         10      15          1994-2008
3.1     3.0     0.0       25         10       15         not fixed*
4.1     3.8     4.0       25         10       15         not fixed*
3.9     3.9     4.0       25         10       15         1997-2011
11.6     9.8     4.0       25         10       15         not fixed*
20.8     4.7     4.0       25         10       15         not fixed*
30.0    16.5     4.0       25         10       15         not fixed*
Subtotal    81.9    49.0
Sepentas    43.4    43.4      0.0      25          10      15          1994-2008
33.1    33.1     0.0       25         10       15         1995-2009
12.8     5.4     0.0       25         10       15         not fixed*
2.7      -      0.0       25         10       15         not fixed*
Subtotal    92.0    81.9
Total       188.1   144.1
* The Government follows a procedure of fixing loan repayment annuities only
when the funds have been fully drawn down.



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
6.          The total annuity payments on the amounts drawn down so far do not
exceed M$7 million in any year between 1987 and 2011, indicating that the debt
servicing of these loans is not expected to prove difficult for RISDA, which
earned some M$36 million in FY1987 on its plantation investments alone. The
issue is legal rather than financial, that is, whether RISDA can use these
profits, which are technically meant to replenish the smallholder cess fund,
to repay the loans to the Government.
7.          The annual allocations for the development expenditure, inclusive
of cess, have averaged M$214 million over 1987-89 (Table 2). The sources of
funds have been the cess, Government grants for replanting, agricultural input
subsidy and other smallholder schemes, and Government loans. The operating
costs of RISDA are borne by the Government which allocated M$88 and M$82
million in 1987 and 1988, respectively, to cover these expenses (Table 3).
The average actual annual expenditure was approximately M$78 million in these
years. For 1989, RISDA has been allocated a total of MS70 million,
approximately 102 below 1988 exper tures and 22Z below the requested amount
of M$90 million. Although some cost cutting measures have been introduced to
cope with the reduced allocations, RISDA is planning to make a request for a
supplementary allocation to make up for the shortfall.
Issues
8.          The various financial and accounting issues are:
(a) delays in accounting and auditing;
(b) under/overstated assets;
(c) improper matching of liabilities and assets;
(d) repayment of Government loans; and
(e) weak operating controls.
9.          (a) Delays in Accounts and Audit:   As of November 1989, the 1986
accounts had been finalized and audited. RISDA had also completed the 1987
and 1988 accounts which had been submitted to the auditors. Accounting
problems arose because of uncleared backlog of accounts. The auditors also
found it difficult to complete the audits because of lack of reconciliation
between control and subsidiary ledgers and lack of supporting documents.
10.         In 1986, following the audit of RISDA's 1979 accounts, the
Government established two committees: (a) the Jawatankuasa Harta Tetap
(Assets Committee) and (b) the Jawatankuasa Hapuskira Wang RISDA (the Write-
Off Committee). These Committees were to help reflect the proper value of
RISDA's assets in the book and to reconcile the accounts and write off the
difference in assets that could not be reconciled. Substantial work has been
done and a more reasonable picture of RISDA's balance sheets is expected to be
reflected in future accounts.



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of :
11.         The number of qualifications in the auditors'reports has also been
reduced. It is expected that the backlog of audits through 1989 will be
cleared by December 1990.
12.         (b) Under/Overstated Assets.  The discrepancies have arisen
because of (i) changes in accounting procedures; (ii) lack of reconciliation
between control and subsidiary ledger accounts; and (iii) inadequate
provisions for losses either for loans granted to smallholders or accounts
receivable.
13.         With respect to (i) above, prior to 1984, RISDA, in compliance
with Government regulations, followed the practice of charging all capital
assets regardless of size as an expense in the year of purchase. The only
exceptions to this accounting procedure were land and factories purchased for
marketing or the properties managed by ESPEK. These procedures were modified
in 1984.   Under new accounting practices, RISDA is to expense all purchases
below MS5000 while capitalizing all the assets above this amount. The Assets
Committee (para. 10), comprising the Accountant General, the Auditor General,
an Audit Company and the Inspectorate Division of RISDA was established to
look into the recording of all assets. The Committee concluded its
investigation in 1988 and recommended that some M1136 million in assets should
be written back into RISDA's books. The future audited accounts will reflect
this asset write-up.
14.         With respect to para. 12 (ii), some M$51 million in assorted
assets were not reconciled between control and subsidiary accounts resulting
in the qualification of opinion in auditors' statements. The Write-Off
Committee (para. 10) was established to examine these accounts and recommend
either adjustments to the stated values or write off the assets as deemed
necessary. The Committee has concluded its deliberations and adjustments to
the various accounts are expected to be reflected in the future audited
accounts.
15.         With respect to para. 12 (iii), little, if anything, has been done
to reflect losses on loans granted to smallholders under SEPENTAS scheme, on
loans granted to subsidiaries, or on goods sold on credit which may now be
non-recoverable. In order to facilitate adjustment of RISDA's accounts so
that its balance sheet reflects its true financial condition, it is important
that the Write-Off Committee continue to operate.   Proposed terms of
reference for the Committee are at Appendix 1.
16.         (c) Improper Matching of Liabilities with Assets.  In the past,
RISDA had occasionally drawn down funds earmarked for specific purposes for
different uses. In particular, the Estate cess accounts stood at M$151
million as of December 31, 1987, but corresponding assets in cash were only
M$1lO million. Similarly smallholder cess funds were used to provide housing
loans to staff. In future, RISDA should attempt to match its assets with
liabilities to avoid a potentially problematic situation of having to settle
claims in excess of the assets.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
17.         (d) Repayment of Loans to the Government.  RISDA has considerable
non-performing assets on its books. These include some M$80 million in
SEPENTAS loans and other smaller loans to subsidiaries or in accounts
receivable that may now be non-recoverable. In particular, the SEPENTAS loans
have been financed by loans from the Government. It is not clear how RISDA
will repay these loans. As mentioned earlier, theoretically RISDA could
easily repay the loans out of earnings from estates but in practice this may
prove difficult as the funds belong to the smallholders. In all probability,
the Government will have to write off some of the non-performing assets.
18.         (e)  Weak Operating Controls.  There are a number of areas where
RISDA's operating controls could be improved.   In particular, budgetary
control and stock control procedures need to be streamlined. However, prior
to considering any of these aspects seriously, it would be necessary to bring
the accounts up to date, reorganize RISDA and develop a suitable management
information system. The introduction of the latter, in particular, would be
necessary prior to developing a meaningful control system.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Proposed Terms of Reference of the Write-Off Committee
In 1986, after thr. audit of the 1979 accounts, the above Committee
was established to reconcile the sundry creditors and debtors accounts between
the control accounts and the subsidiary ledgers. While considerable progress
has been made to achieve this objective, additional work still needs to be
done to reflect RISDA's correct financial condition. The Committee should
continue to examine the 1986 and all subsequent auditors'reports and recommend
appropriate action to address the accounting issues. Areas that deserve
particular attention are:
(a)     Apportionment of correct land and building values between
RISDA and Scheme 1959 for land purchased in Batu Pahat
and the building on Frazer Hill.
(b)     Reflection of the true capitalised values of RISDA's
assets in accordance with the revised accounting policies
introduced in 1984.
(C)     Write-down of the investments in subsidiaries to reflect
the book value (after losses) of RISDA's investments in
subsidiaries.
(d)     Adequate provisions for losses on loans granted to
subsidiaries which are now considered non-recoverable.
(e)     Assessment of the prospects of recovering loans given to
smallholders, particularly SEPENTAS and loans for
education of smallholder children. The Committee should,
firstly, examine what, if any, measures can be taken to
collect these loans and, secondly, recommend appropriate
actions for writing down the book value to reflect the
correct asset value in the balance sheet.
(f)     Adjustment in the marketing fund to reflect (a) provision
for bad debts in accounts receivable; and (b) correct
value of stocks, which should be stated at market rather
than book value. These accounts should be brought in
line with generally accepted accounting principles.
(g)     Re-examination of Estate and tactory Division accounts to
(a) assess if the stated values of assets reflect their
true value; and (b) initiate %yrite-off of non-recoverable
debts.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
RISDA Statement of Financial Condition
December 31. 1983-87
(us 000)
-----------Audite --------    ----Provisional----
1983       1984       1996       1986        1987
Rubber Industry Funds:
Smallholders Coss Account             256,288     266,872    272,080    266,383    319,879
Estate Coss Account                   141,725     146,283    144,981    149,688    160,624
Unexpended Development Fund           42,258      48,967      13,446    20,902      18,993
Unexpended Operating Fund                 --          --      9,391     12,336       8,819
Smaliholders Credit Schme                 -            -      16,000    15,000      15,000
Housing Loan Revolving Fund                --          --     67,500    67,600      69,000
Veh:cIl Loan Revolving Fund             5,880      6,880      6,880      6,880       6,880
Governnent Loans for Mini-
Estatl and Sepentas                 48,135       65,852    74,980    103,940     115,787
Ma^ketinq Cperation:
Rcvol,lng Fund                        66,129      B6,129     65,129    66,129       65,129
Government Loan                            --      6,624     11,301     18,201      18,201
Accumulated Profit (Losses)            12,054      2,827    (8,129)   (14,645)    (23,954)
Total Funds                        S71.417     696.338    676,641    694.292     757.447
Represented by:
Fixed Assets - Net                    24,837      28,832     37,221     46,540      64,600
Plantation Development - Espek        178,66,    187,297    197,727    186,070     191,031
Investment In Subsidiaries            29,650      29,500      7,018      7,026       7,025
Government Bonds                       68,700          -          -          -           -
Current Assets:
SmalIholders and other
accounts                         232,039     273,627    298,794    346,737     401,412
Stocks                              22,497      27,087     40,272     38,889      40,600
Bank fixed deposits                 50,290      67,275    126,000     66,160      76,800
Bank current accounts               16,777      21,241     24,703     53,698      85,300
Current Liabilities                 (89,329)    (88,223)   (53,189)   (49,817)    (47,822)
Total Assets                       671.417    69B.336    676.641    694.292     767.447



MALUYSIA
RLSDA PROJECT
RISDA'S DEV. ALLOCATION
(W 000)
1986 - 1990
1966                                    1967                                      1990
CESS   QOVT.QRANT GOVT.LOAN   TOTAL        CESS   COVT.CRANT GOVT.LOAN   TOTAL       CESS   GOVT.QRANT GOVT LOAN   TOTAL
Replanting prograw
1/2/n.p/KSAluiniestat            156078       11000     12862    178440     9867       65467      11486    170579    120227       832S      14 UO    1606o0
Land Pr_mum Credit                    0           0         0         0         0           0         0         0       100           0         0       100
Income Ounranted Schem             2682          0      20000     22682      1014           0     10200     11214      1062           0         0      1062
Training Progr-m                   8264           0         0      8264       849           0         0       349      1036           0         0      106
Administrative Progrm              4550           0         0      4660        80           0         0        30        5O           0         0         60
RehabiIltation                        0        1755         0      1755         0        2700         0      2700         0        2142         0      2142
SalIholdern Dev. Center                        1604         0      1604         0         600         0       800         0         802         0       *02
Agricultural Subsidy Inputs                   16844         0     18844         0       17995         0     17995         0        8721         0      3721
Inf ratructure                                 816         0       81S8        0         1031         0      1081         0        1021         0      1021
Extenslon Services                  250        1666         0      1916         0        2816        .O      2815         0        2018         0      2018
Menageimnt Fecilitiso                          6647         0      6647         0         786         0       768         0        6719         0      6719
Marketing end Proceesing                                 1900      1900         0           0      1100      1100         0           0      1100      1100
Mini Estate Housing                                      8600      8500         0           0         0         0         0           0      1000      1000
166024      46160     87762    249942    90069        91044      22786    208649    122497       46671     16909    169146
1989                                      1990
CESS    GO4T.CRANT GOVTALAAN   TOTAL       CESS   GONT.GRANT GOVT.LOAN   TOTAL
Replanting pro'rm
1/2/n.p/K5A/NMlnliett            104265       72000    27600    204058      98627      86207          0    179084
Land Prmiu Credit                   s6            0         0        68      1950           0         0      1950
Incom  Quaranted Schemee           1000          0         0       1000       416          0          0       416
Training Program                   1188           0         0      1168       61            0         0       661
Ad lniatr tiveProrm                  44           0         0        44        92           0         0        92
Rehabi I ltation                      0        8000         0      000         0        8647         0      6647
Soliholders DOe. Center               0        8200         0      8200         0        4901         0      4901
Agricultural Subsidy Inputs           0       16000         0     16000         0       17000         0     17000
Intr structure                        0        8OOO        0       BOO0         0       10000         0     10000
Extension Services                    0        2600         0      2600         0        8S6          0      860
Management Fecillties                 0        7564         0      7564         0       29598         0     29568
Marheting and Procex lng              0           0       900       900         0           0         0         0
Mini Estate Houing                    0           0      2100      2100         0           0      2500      2600
106486      10264    60600    24B672     97166       164403      2600   254006
... . . . . . . . . .. ... . .. . . . .. ... ... .. __ _ S . - " ~~tix 



- 56 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
RISDA'S 1987-90 OPERATING BUDGET
(MS '000)
1987             1988            1989       1990 a/
Budget  Actual   Budget   Actual    Budget    Budget
Salaries                 50430   45691    49777    46816      36178      60508
Fixed Allowances          4700    3580      4091     3574      2968       4651
Employees Provident
Fund                    7500    6510      7203     6770      5355       9311
Overtime Allowance         700     674       500      654        479      1213
Other Benefits              33      13        33       16         20        34
Travel Allowance          5700    5179     5330      5236      6920       7000
Transportation
Allowance                250     131       150      145       250        200
Utilities and
Communications          3100    2761     2820      3100      3300       3500
Food and Beverages          --      --        30       23         17        30
Repair and Maintenance
Materials               1416    1325      1200     1108      1620       2000
Other Supplies             976     944       800      970       992       1900
Repairs and Maintenance
Costs                   2700    2520     2000      2373      2700       4000
Professional and Other
Services                5211    4440     4475      3704      4776       6000
Rental                    1750    1525      1700     1357      1900       1800
Property Acquisition
and Major Repairs        175      93      250       222       300        636
Contribution              1570    1541        26       15         25        20
Other Expenses            2059    1764      2100     1743      2200       2738
Total               88270   78691    82485    77826       70000    105541
a/ Budget proposed by RISDA.



ANNEX S
- 57 -
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Breakdown of Grant Pahent dy Cro
wnersp o   468 h en    *n
Crop Type                                    Installmnt Per Ha (MS)                          TOTAL
First   Second    Third    Fourth    Fifth    Sixth    Seventh    (MS)
1. Rubber               1,681.48   889.58   617.76   617.76    617.78   617.76    494.21    5,436.31
2. Cloven               1,286.54   617.76    617.76   617.76    617.76        -          -       8,708.58
3. Nutmegs              1,235.54   617.76   617.76   617.76       617.76      -          -       3,706.68
4. Fruit Orchard (NCF)   1,285.64    617.76   617.76   617.76     617.76      -          -       B,708.58
5. Coffee               1,285.64   617.76   617.76   617.76       617.76      -          -       3,708.58
8. Sago                 1,482.64    617.76   617.76   494.21       494.21     -          -       3,70f.68
7. Coconuts             1,482.64    617.78   617.76   494.21      494.21      -          -       3,706.68
8. Pxdi                 1,235.52    988.42    741.32    741.32       -        -          -       3,70S.68
;      9. Oil Palo              1,482.63  1,111.97    741.82    870.66      -         -          -       3,708.68
10. Cocou                1,729.74    741.32    617.76   617.76       -         -          -       8,706 68
11. Citrus               1,729.74    741.32    617.76   617.7e       -         -          -       3,708.68
12. Tea                  1,729.74    741.32   617.76   61i.76        -         -          -       3,708.68
13. Pine"pples           1,729.74   741.32   617.76   617.76         -         -          -       3,706.68
14. Manila Hemp          1,729.74   741.82   617.76   617.76         -         -          -       3,706.58
16. Pepper               1,729.74  1,236.62    370.68   870.66       -         -          -       3,706.68
16. Orchid               1,729.74  1,359.08    617.76     -          -         -          -       3,708.68
17. Ginger               1,729.74  1,236.52    741.32     -          -         -          -       3,70e.68
18. Sugarcane            1,729.74    988.42    988.42     -          -         -          -       3,708.58
19. Fodder Crops         1,729.74  1,235.52    741.32     -          -         -          -       3,708.68



- 58 -
AE 6.1
WUALSYA
RISA PROJECT
FLOW CHART OF PROCESSING STEPS FOR REPLANTINO
Tmn  of Work            Days
Application received
Registration of Applic tion                                                            1-2
Repeat application or
Chock Grant Index, Lot, Nam o                                                         7-10
~~~~~~~~~o  in orde r                                     j~trs71
INotInOrder  Pr   re visit form  21-30
InIti_l Visit                                           and sak  visit
iQuetton of Ind enity        14-30
Examination of S3/S9KW forms,                           carried out sImulta-
partnership papers,                                       eoly with vtist
indemnities it necessary
Evaluate and advise          30-45
Assessment for payment tro                              appiIeant and
Fund 'A  it appropriate                                 operation of It
I _ _ _    l  _                           (Fund 'A')
Change of erop lititation (on                           Carried out simulta-         30-13S
land title) It necesry                                  ncously with
assessment for Fund 'A'
Evaluate visit report                                                                 2-3
lNotify approval of application                                                        1-2
Land preparation by tarmor                                                           90-120
Notification that land Is
ready
Examination (Inspection)
m  [Grant visit                                              of Land after farmer         10-14
advises land is redy
[Evaluate Grant Visit Report   _Postpon- payment                                       2-3
0   Prepare record card, index,                                                            4-6
first grant
Cf Ptyent Vouer. Warrant                                                                   4-5
Not7fty Pay _nt
Order materials, prepare
a,  Order planting materials,                                vouchers and arrange         17-25
)  fortiltzr  , rer* payment                                 sending of m*terials at
.a  voucher                                                  same time as preparing
_-_                                                          payment voucher
I SuceeWding grant processing                            Elapsed time (total) is
_  and paymsnta                                              S-1/2 to 7-1/2 months       233-429
1                                         If no iegal difficulties
PrOcOss COmpleted                      Applitation
Rejected



- 59 -
MALAYSIA                               AMNEX 6.2
RISDA PROJEC?
Flow Chart of Rehabilitation Proces
Cccurrence of Disaster
Farmer reports disaster
and applies for Rehabilitation
Registration of Application
I      RISDA inspector
visits subject area
Inspector issues report & est-
imated cost of rehab. (F.TSl8)
Application approved by                         Application approved by Re-
State Officer for rehab. at                     gional Officer for rehab. at
|2nd/3rd replant. grant stage |4th-7th replant. grant stage
Issue of Provisional Approval to
Farmer (Form TS27)
I 
Farmer accepts rehab asstistance
by return of Form TS28
mlinputs of Rehabilitation
cozmmnce
State Ofrb reports
applications & ap-
provals monthly tor
HQ (Form TS55)     Every trimester
State Office re-
ports on status
of all rehab.
approvals to B
(Form TS92)
Replanting Division regularly
reports on status of rehab.
program to RISDA Board.
Completion of rehabilitation attested|
by Inspector's report 
Farmner continues replant under reg8 grant
program from stage disaster occurred



- 60 -
ANNMEX 6. 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Plow Chart of Implementation of Airicultural Inputs Prosram
RISDA Extension Division      l
allocates budget to States
I 
State Offices allocate
budget to Districts
[   RISDA Offices display
notices about progrsaw
Field staff inform farmers
of input program benefits      |_-_-
Farmers apply for
input program benefits
[  Inspection of holding        j
Inspectors report recomenda-|
|I Z  Z      X          J    tion to District Office   J
Copy of approval to         1                                      X
Supply Officer                     Application approved
(District)                        by District Office
Order voucher issued         1                    I
to State Store                     District Office advises
farmer of approval
Delivery of inputs                       Farmer receives
to Districts                               inputs
I
[  Farmer signs input
I  oucher receiptl
Signed vouchers sent to HQ
for program monitoring



- 61 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Tax/Subsidy Implications of Replanting Cess/Grants
And Export Duties
1.       Two-thirds of the applicants for replanting assistance own less
than 2 ha, although two-thirds of smallholder land is found in holdings of
more than 2 ha. More specifically, 61Z of smallholders are in the 0-2 ha
group, with an average holding size of 1.2 ha. It is perhaps reasonable to
assume that the larger the holding, the greater the ability and likelihood
of undertaking a replanting program in stages, and the smaller is the
problem of the prolonged period (6-7 years) of loss of income which
accompanies replanting. 11 Through 1988, a total of 980,000 ha had been
replanted by smallholders. Of this replanted area, approximately 41Z and
44Z was replanted by smallholders owning less than 2 ha and between 2 to 6
ha respectively, while th^ rest was by holdings of over 6 ha. Because of
the large concentration of smallholdings 4n the smaller size group, it
appears that replanting assistance was indeed provided to the smallest of
smallholdings, despite the fact that farmers in this group are less able to
suffer losses of income over a prolonged period and, therefore, less prone
to replant their plots.  This is perhaps explained by the fact that off-
fart. income accounts for a substantial proportion of household income in
smallholdings.
2.       The welfare issues arising from government assistance schemes need
to be examined in relation to the system of replanting cess collections,
replanting grants and rubber export duties.  The first implication of the
replanting cess is that smallholders who do not replant because of
individual circumstances relating to loss of income or lack of land titles
are perpetually subsidizing those who undertake replanting and avail
themselves of the government replanting grant. A more important
question that arises is whether the net effect of the replanting cess and
"grant  scheme finally represents a tax or subsidy to producers.  For the
producer who has not paid any cess and is newly planting to rubber, the
init2al planting grant can be thought of as a loan, for which the future
1/ Note that this is a loss of income from land, but not necessarily from
labor, if alternative employment opportunities are available during the
crop development period.



- 62 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
payments of the cess can be regarded as ex post amortization. In this case
of an initial planting, the scheme may well imply a subsidy, especially if
the productivity of the rubber is low. For the more typical smallholder
producers who did not start with a planting grant, 2/ the scheme has the
character of an (enforced) savings scheme into which payments are made in
the form of the cess, and interest accrues until the final withdrawals are
made.
3.       The calculation of whether the farmer has been taxed or subsidized
by the scheme is relatively easy in this case. It merely requires the
comparison of the implicit yield or interest rate of the scheme with the
farmer's own time preference rate, or with the interest rates to which he
is exposed in rural financial markets. Calculations of this sort (see
Table 1) reveal that even for interest rates substantially lower than those
typically occuring in rural areas, and even for those producers with
relatively low rubber yields (who have thus made far less than average cess
payments), the scheme has nevertheless represented a tax. Using an
interest rate of 10Z, the breakeven average yield below which a farmer is
subsidized and above which he is taxed, is only 500 kg/ha, and this assumes
that trees have a productive life of 26 years prior to replanting; for
yields of above 500 kg/ha, which applies to all but the most inefficient
smallholders, a net tax is implied. If the trees have been in production
longer, so that the cess has been paid for more than 26 years prior to
replanting, certainly the case in most smallholder areas, the breakeven
yield is even lower. Since the replanting grant is the same on a per
hectare basis, regardless of the size and duration of cess payments, the
more productive farmers, and those who delay replanting, are particularly
heavily taxed by the scheme. An additional issue that arises in the
welfare context is that the estates receive annually the full refund of
paid out replanting cess (although without any accrued interest payments),
instead of receiving the grant spread out as yearly installments, with a
stipulated per hectare maximum, as 'n the case of smallholders.  However,
in an analysis of equity considerations of rubber smallholder assistance,
it is necessary to give due recognition to the many RISDA schemes which
operated in the past or are continuing, such as the interest free income
maintenance loans, the K5A programs which paralleled the above schemes for
smallholders who did not have title to the land. aud the mini-estate
program. All these were at least partly funded from the replanting cess
fund, and in some measure contributed to alleviating poverty amongst rubber
smallholders on a selective, individual basis. But many of these programs
were costly and the number of smallholders benefitting was very small
relative to the rubber replanting program. Only the mini-estate program is
still continuing.
2/ From 1953 through 1988, only 51,900 ha or 52 of the total
replanted area of 980,000 ha were newplanted. About 823,000 ha or 84Z
of the total replanted area were first round replantings and 104,200 ha
or 112 were second round replantings.



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
4.       Table 1 takes into account only replanting cess collections
(M$99.20/ton) compared to the replanting grant. When export duty
collections are taken into account, in addition to replanting cess,
subsidies even for producers with low rubber yields and at low interest
rates disappear. Given the present export duty structure (see Table 2) and
world prices of rubber, rubber producers pay export duties amounting to
M$140-160/ton (4 to 5Z of f.o.b. prices). Though export duties can be zero
or negligible with low world rubber prices such as in 1985-87, rubber
export duty collections were as high as H$l.l billion in 1979 and even in
relatively unfavorable years 1982-84 averaged M$180 million annually
compared to average annual replanting cess collections of M$140 million
since 1981. Adding export duties to replanting cess collections in Table
1, therefore, would result in a net tax on rubber producers, even those
with low yields and at low interest rates. In the case of smallholders,
this net tax is lowered through some current RISDA programs such as free
inputs for mature rubber, infrastructure construction, construction of
central and group processing centers, etc., financed from Government
budget.
5.       A question arises whether rubber producers are overtaxed, in
particular, whether export duties on rubber should be removed. Available
estimates show that, in absolute terms, rubber export duties in Malaysia
are not excessive. The optimal export tax that would maximize short-term
revenues from rubber exports (based on short-run import demand
elasticities) could be as high as 35Z of the export price, whereas the
optimal export tax based on long-run import demand elasticities has been
estimated at about 8? of the export price. 3/ Thus the current export duty
of 4-52 of f.o.b. prices does not exceed the estimated optimal level based
on long-run elasticities. However, relative to its main competitor at the
farm level, oil palm, tubber is taxed heavily since export duties on
processed palm oil were suspended in August 1986 due to extremely low world
prices of palm oil. The Government is reportedly considering restoration
of the export duties on processed palm oil, and this is one alternative to
correct the relative taxation of rubber and palm oil.
3/    MudassarjImran and Ron Duncan, 'Optimal Export Taxes for Exporters of
Perennial Crops", International Economics Department, The World Bank,
WPS 10, June 1988.



- 64 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER - REPLANTING CESS AND GRANT al
Present
value of              Present value of cess payments
Interest   replanting          at alternative rubber yields (kg/ha) dl
(Z) bl      grant cl    500   600    700    800    900  1,000  1,100  1,200
3        2,050         721   865  1,009  1,154  1,298  1.442  1,586  1,730
5        1,087         507   608    709    811    912  1,013J 1,115  1,216
8          429         313   375    438    501    56        6     688    751
10          234         233 r 280    327    373    420    466    513    560
15           54         121   145    170    194    218    242    266    291
20           13          69    82      96    110    124    137    151    165
al  Combinations to the right of the heavy line represent net taxation of
smallholders; to the left net subsidization.
b/ As future payments of both the cess and grant are stated in 1988 ringgit
(constant value), this interest rate should be considered to be a "real'
rate. In 1988, real deposit rates in financial institutions were 1.5-2Z.
Lending rates ranged from 7 to 102 (for commercial bank lending). Real
lending rates in the informal credit sector (mainly shopkeepers and
traders) were estimated to range between 10Z and 30Z p.a.
cl  Replanting Grant: M$5,436.42/ha (M$2,200/acre) for holdings of 4.05 ha or
less; M$3,706.50 for smallholdings of more than 4.05 ha.
d/  Replanting Cess: M$99.20/ton (4.5 sen/lb).  For the purpose of calcula-
tions in this table, it was assumed that while the economic life of a
rubber tree is 33 years, the replanting cess is only paid during the years
of maturity (26 years). Yields are average yields for the 26-year pro-
duction cycle.



-65-                        ANNEX 7
Table 2
RUBBER EXPORT DUTY STRUCTURE
Gazetted Price              Rate of Export Duty
On the first H$2.10/kg            Ad valorem nil
Plus on the next MS0.40/kg        Ad valorem 102
Plus on the next M$O.50/kg        Ad valorem 202
Plus on the balance               Ad valorem 30t
NOTE: All duty is to be calculated in Malaysian cent (sen) per kg to the
nearest 118 of a sen according to the formulae shown below (where
BP" represents the gazetted price):
Gazetted Price                    Export Duty Formulae
(sen/kg)
210 and below                             _ o -
210 1/8 - 250                        0.10 P minus 21.00
250 1/8 - 300                        0.20 P minus 46.00
300 1/8 and above                    0.30 P minus 76.00
The various grades of rubber are classified into one dutiable category.  A
'Gazetted Price'. which is used for the calculation of duty, is gazetted
and published in the press. This 'Gazetted Price' is derived by averaging
the prices of the RSS 3 and SMR 20 grades for the period between the 16th
day of the month preceding the previous month, and the 15th day of the
previous month.  The effectiveness of the 'Gazetted Price" commences on the
first day of the month for a period of one calendar month.



- 66 -                                  ANNEX 8
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Total Area Replanted (1st & 2nd Round)
and New lanted to Various Crops (1953-1988)
Crop
Rubber        Oilpalm         Cocoa         Other         Total
Year
1953-1975      538,007.53       34,032.90         11.13       58,134.29    630,185.85
1976         14,250.12        2,811.46          5.06        2,668.80      19,735.44
1977         12,788.69        3,434.67         38.75        1,945.43      18,207.54
1978         13,255.09        3,847.35        132.03        1,963.55      19,198.02
1979         14,186.07        5,699.50        256.17        2,249.04      22,390.78
1980         15,299.37        5,508.39        460.33        1,715.87      22,983.96
1981         22,118.94        4,604.62        355.62        1,893.83      28,973.01
1982         23,409.48        5,444.75        308.57        2,020.20      31,183.00
1983         22,730.62        6,109.65        363.21        2,491.85      31,695.33
1984         17,397.06        7,615.89        672.69        2,666.07      28,352.71
1985         10,714.88        9,255.48      1,126.44        2,134.22      23,231.02
(46.12Z)       (39.84?)       (4.85X)         (9.19?)
1986         12,904.43       11,634.53      3,590.98        3,402.30      31,532.24
(40.93Z)       (36.901)      (11.382)        (10.79Z)
1987         16,809.49       10,671.48      4,239.91        3,506.75      35,227.63
(47.72Z)       (30.29?)      (12.04?)         (9.95Z)
19c8         22,642.13        8,170.88      2,691.26        3,230.33      36,734.6C
(61.64Z)       (22.24?)       (7.32Z)         (8.80z)
Total        756,518.90      118,841.55    14,252.15        90,018.75    979,631.35



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Sumery of RISDA Components in Bank-financed Prolects
Loan Amounts (USM Million)
Loan                     ---RISDA Components----               Physical RISDA Compon nts Asriculture
Project                     Loan    Comple-     Prlc              A riculture    Other       Replanting        Imature    satore Rehabilitation
Name            Loan No.  Signing  tion   Original Rewi Osed riginal Revised  Original Original Achieved  Maintenance   Original  Achieved
(ha)     (ha)        (ha)         (ha)      (ha)
Kelantan Land    1899-MA   12/80   01/88      26.0    11.1        1.8     6.4          -    2,300    8,800            -      16U900   21,800
Scheme Rehab.
Malacca Agri-    2147-MA   07/82   12/69      25.4   17.75       13.0   11.46       0.8    8,960    7,684*        6,260           -         -
culture Dev.
Keday Valleys    2220-MA   02/88   12/86       56.9    34.6      18.1    14.6        2.7   16,100   16,740 *    13,170            -         -
Agri. D0v.
Second Western   2740-MA   07/86   12/94      66.0        -       7.4       -          -   14,600    4,800 ** e                   _         _
Johor Agri-
culture Dev.
*    sat nd 197
c as at August 1968



- 68 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Computerization of RISDA's Management Information System (MIS)
1.       Establishment of a computerized MIS at RISDA would be given
special emphasis under the project. RISDA's computerized MIS was initiated
in 1979, when a mainframe was installed. The major work was on general
accounting besides processing of the Smallholders Survey of 1977. The
payroll system was also implemented. In 1981 RISDA purchased an additional
mini computer. By the end of 1986, it was found that the mainten.ance cost
of the mainframe was high and the system had become obsolete. RISDA
decided to write off the hardware and then bought a direct data entry
machine in August 1986. Since then there has been no upgrading of the
computer system. In 1988, RISDA decided to upgrade its mainframe computer
at its headquarters and introduce mini-computers for the State offices.
For this purpose, a Steering Committee was established and the requirements
of the operational units were considered. A proposal was submitted to the
Government for computerizing information on finance and accounts, stock
control and store management, mini-estates operations and smallholders.
The proposal also called for computerization at the State level over about
four years. The proposal was approved in principle by the Malaysian
Administration Modernization Planning Unit (MAMPU) in early 1989. The
approved proposal envisages a step-by-step implementation beginning in late
1989 with a one-year pilot project involving a new mainframe computer at
RISDA headquarters and a terminal in Malacca State. The results of the
pilot project would be evaluated in late 1990/early 1991, before
countrywide implementation of RISDA's computerized MIS.
2.       It is clear that an upgrading of RISDA's information management is
required. The present equipment is obsolete and in urgent need of
replacement. It appears that the initiative to improve information
management in RISDA was taken primarily to develop an integrated
computerized accounting system. It is, therefore, understandable that, of
the four modules, considerable emphasis has been placed on the Financial
and Accounting Module, which consequently is better prepared than the
others. However, the accounting system should not be equated with
management information; there is also a need to improve the efficiency of
operational information relating to the field activities of RISDA. The
computerization program should give due consideration to the vital
processes of planning, programming and budgeting. A top-down approach
whereby the subordinate levels supply the data necessary for headquarter
analysis may not be in the best interest of RISDA in the longer term. The
role of the computer at the State and Responsibility Center (the new
District offices emerging after field level reorganization) level should be
clarified in terms of the operational relevance to the managers at these
levels. The information requirements at the field level should also be re-
examined.



- 69 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
3.       The project cost estimates include provision for the main frame at
the head office, mini-computers at the State level and 70 personal
computers for the Responsibility Centers, headoffice and Training
Institutes. However, before procurement of the equipment, RISDA should:
i)    review thoroughly the information requirements of the
operational units in RISDA and the incorporation of their
requirements other than accounting into the design;
ii)    assess the information requirement of the States and
Responsibility Centers, in keeping with their operational
roles;
iii)   evaluate the work being done in the Muar Regional Office in
computerizing the smallholder grant release and
administration procedures (see terms of reference at
Annex 12.4);
iv)    in the light of the evaluation findings for the Muar
project, incorporate as an integral element of the
computerized MIS, appropriate computerization at the level
of the Responsibility Centers to improve the administration
of smallholder replanting activities; and
v)    estimate year-by-year costs of implementing the program
including hardware and software/progrpm development costs.
4.       To facilitate speedy implementation of the computerized MIS under
the project, the following timetable is proposed:
i)    recruitment by May 1990 or earlier of a consultant or
consultants to undertake a technical evaluation of the
computerized smallholder replanting information system at
Muar;
ii)    receipt of the consultant's final report by the end of
September 1990 or earlier;
iii)    incorporation of the consultant's relevant findings into
the overall design of RISDA MIS no later than the end of
December 1990 and submission of the revised proposal to
MAMPU;
iv)    clearance by MAMPU of the revised sections of the RISDA MIS
proposal relating to computerization at the Responsibility
Center level by March 1991;
v)    commencement of procurement procedures for equipment at the
Responsibility Center level immediately after MAMPU
clearance in principle; and
vi)    training of staff and implementation at the Responsibility
Center level immediately following the above events and to
be completed by the end of 1992.



- 70 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 7
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Human Resource Development and Training Comoonent
Main Objective of the Component
1.       The component to be implemented over a 36 month project period would:
strengthen management skills; improve the planning and implementation of
training and staff development activities; support a program for staff
upgrading to meet the needs of a proposed reorganized field service; provide
for communications skills enhancement for field extension workers; and provide
funds for the purchase of teaching aids and equipment and for limited but
necessary infrastructure improvement at RISDA's training facilities.
Sub Objectives of the Component
2.       In view of the ongoing nature of RISDA's replanting program, the
project-supported training activities would, as a priority, concentrate on:
upgrading of staff in the proposed reorganized field service to meet the
responsibility demands created by the new structure; training of trainers at
the Training Institutes; and training of field extension workers who organize
short on-site training activities for smallholders with emphasis on
communications skills. Procurement of teaching/instructing equipment and aids
to support the activities of the upgraded trainees would also receive high
priority. These two priority objectives which would require intensive and
well pl%nned training programs involving the RISDA Training Division and
outside assistance are aimed at immediate support for the ongoing replanting
program.
3.       Strengthening of management skills and improving the planning and
implementation of training and staff development activities to ensure the
sustainability of the management and training function would also be funded by
the project.
4.       The proposed field service reorganization would require that staff in
Grades D, C and B be regraded upwards to equip them for their new
responsibilities. The Training Division with outside assistance would need to
offer considerable training to enable these staff to prepare for their
promotional examinations and to be aware of their new responsibilities.
5.       Effective training requires access to equipment, supporting
materials, models, demonstration sets, practical tools and machinery. When
trainees participate in practical training activities they should have access
to a set of hand tools or other equipwent to immediately practice new skills
and gain confidence. The project would support the purchase of standard sets
of equipment and supporting materials including library books, journals and
resource materials. It would also support the purchase of one set of video
playback equipment for each Training Institute to enable the instructors to
effectively teach communications techniques to the field extension workers



ANNEX 11
- 71 -                          N        
Page 2 of 7
(AROs). This is now standard teaching equipment for communications and
related topics including management training. Funding for a computer (PC) and
printer for each Institute would be included to improve teaching materials
preparation and Institute record keeping. Mobile training equipment would
also be provided to the extension staff at the State level to improve insitu
training of farmers in villages.
6.       The project would provide funding for training activities to address
the special needs of other RISDA Divisions and units ir.cluding Audit and
Inspection, Administration, Computing and Monitoring and Evaluation. Special
attention would be given to upgrading the skills of female extension workers
to enable them to meet the needs of women workers in the rubber smallholder
subsector more effectively.
RISDA Clientele Requiring Training
7.       RISDA has four well defined trainee target groups:
(a) A force of some 1,300 field extensioi workers (AROs) who participate
in formal preservice and inservice training courses of varying
duration at RISDA's three regional Training Institutes and one rented
facility (Wisma RISDA) in Kuala Lumpur;
(b) Some 840 key farmers or Smallholder Community Development Leaders
(SCDLs), who also participate in courses offered at the three RISDA
Training Institutes, and up to 400,000 individual smallholders who
are offered on site short training courses by the field extension
workers;
(c) Management, administrative and support staff numbering about 3,800
who are offered organized training activities related to their
fields; and
(d) Training staff vho are located in the RISDA Training and Smallholder
Community Development Division and staff at the three Training
Institutes.
Management of Training in RISDA
8.       Overall responsibility for the management of training is placed in
the Training and Smallholder Community Development Division under the Deputy
Director General (DDG), Administration (Appendix 1). The Division is headed
by a Director who controls four unit heads. The units are: Agricultural
Development, Education and Administration, Management and Entrepreneur
Development and Smallholder Community Development. The three existing RISDA
Training Institutes and the rented Wisma RISDA training facility are also
directed and supervised by the Training and Smallholder Community DevAlopment
Division.



- 72 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 7
Training Facilities and Resource Personnel
9.       The three existing Training Institutes are:  Ayer Pa'abas in the
State of Melaka (it has an area of 193 acres); Padang Rengas in the State of
Perak (32 acres); and Bukit Sireh in the State of Kelantan (112 acres). A
fourth Institute at Kg. Awah in the State of Pahang is expected to be
operational in 1990 while a RISDA staff training institute near Kuala Lumpur
is still a possibility in the sixth plan. RISDA also offers staff courses in
a rented structure, Wisma RISDA, in Kuala Lumpur. The Wisma has one classroom
to accommodate 30 trainees and has no resident staff. Training at the
Institutes is carried out by Institute based instructors and assistance is
provided by about 18 outside agencies depending on need. Headquarters staff
also contribute to teaching.
10.      Training needs of field staff are determined annually by State level
RISDA officers. Smallholder leader and individual smallholder needs used to
be determined in the same way but, to accelerate data transmission to the
Training D-rision, smallholder needs are now being determined by the field
extension woL-srs and sent directly to the Training Division. Training
requirements for other staff are determined by their division managers. The
Training Division consolidates the identified needs into an annual program
which is issued in September/October of the preceding year and which contains
course description, dates, duration and venue. Budget requests for training
are based on the program which emerges from the analysis of reported needs.
The Extension Division prepares an annual program of smallholder or-site
training based on seven development objectives. Training is planned for
groups of fifteen smallholders and each course repeated until the target group
is fully trained. Training carried out by extension workers is funded from
the Extension Division's development budget.
Issues in RISDA Training
11.      Some issues related to training activities of RISDA are as follows:
(a) Management of Training. RISDA has basically sound ideas about what
is necessary to run a good human resources development program but
lacks the management skills required to effectively implement the
program. There is an urgent need to improve RISDA's capacity to
manage human resources more effectively.
(b) Training Quality. Training Institute staff are short or. teaching
skills which has serious implications for the quality of the
Institute-based training program. Upgrading of skills for Institute
staff is of immediate importance as is the need to grade teaching
staff appropriately. Presently, a number of C grade staff are
instructing AROs of the same grade, a practice which puts the
instructor at a distinct disadvantage in terms of credibility and,
therefore, of effectiveness. Institute staff also need to have a
career ladder in the training area. Government promotion systems
tend to put all people of a certain grade into a promotional pool
which means that an effective instructor in a Training Institute can
be transferred to any other unit which requires a person with that
grade. The potential loss to training is enormous as a replacement



- 73 -                         ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 7
may lack experience and skill. Field extension workers are operating
without adequate communications training. The effectiveness of
training by extension workers and of ~tension itself suffers from
this basic weakness. Management level RISDA personnel do not
systematically undergo training which addresses program planning,
management of personnel and program evaluation. More attention to
management skill improvement is required.
(c) Training Facilities. Training equipment, training materials, library
books and basic practical tools are now outdated or in short supply.
New technology such as video playback equipment to train extension
staff in communications techniques and computer/printer sets to
enable staff to update teaching materials and keep Institute records
should be introduced. Some Institutes require basic site improvement
and limited aclitional multipurpose facilities. Presently, due to
shortage of space, classrooms are separated by thin partitions making
it difficult for teachers and trainees to concentrate when all
classrooms are being utilized. Access roads and farms roads need
improvement. On campus, staff housing is inadequate. Many of the
instructors and essential staff such as drivers and guards live off
campus. As the Institutes are residential, ideally all instructors
and essential staff should be on hand to assist and supervise
trainees and to deal with emergencies.
(d) High Level Staff Training. This training is not systematically
planned and staff response to such training is variable. An
organization as large and complex as RISDA requires a well managed
and systematic program of training for senior staff. Not only does
participation in these training activities improve managerial
effectiveness but it also sends a signal of support for training to
staff at lower levels in the organization.
(e) Training of Female AROs. RISDA has 120 female extension workers, 110
of whom are involved in field activities. The 110 represent about 9Z
of RISDA's field extension staff. Female extension workers are
currently expected to form smallholders women's groups (PWPK) which
pursue income generating projects and participate in extension
activities which include rubber technology, other crops, family
development and home economics. The groups are also introduced to
the concepts and rules of smallholder cooperatives. So far 471
groups with 9,567 members, or 2Z of the potential women's smallholder
population, have been formed. While RISDA should seek active
involvement of other Government agencies for non-rubber activities, a
greater emphasis on training of female AROs is required to improve
effectiveness in the transft.: of rubber production technology to
women smallholders.
Project-Supnorted Training and Training-Related Activities
12.      While the ongoing annual training program of the RISDA Training
Division will continue, the project will provide for training to support field
reorganization; improved communication skills for extension workers;
strengthening of the management of training~ overseas training for RISDA



ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 7
staff; training in computers and monitoring and evaluation, infrastructure and
equipmeut for Training Institutes; and mobile training equipment at the State
level.
13.      Training to Support Field Reorganization.  Under the proposed
reorganization plan, 23 Regional and 83 District offices would become 61 RISDA
offices or centers of responsibility. Each of the 61 RISDA offices, will have
between 28 and 30 staff and will be managed by an office head. Itn creating
the 61 RISDA offices, new tasks and responsibilities will be assigned to
managers, fir acial staff and clerical personnel. A job regrading exercise
will be initiated to fit individuals to the demands of the new situation. The
regrading program will move selected staff from Grades D to C. C to B, and B
to A.
14.      A two part training program will be required to assist candidates in
passing their promotional examinations and to prepare them for their new
positions in the RISDA offices. The first part of the program will offer
canoidates a one week training course to prepare them for the general
promotional exercise. Training will be conducted by the RISDA Training
Division. The second part of the program of training for reorganization will
provide training activities for accountancy, clerical and management staff and
organize training for 27 subject matter specialists (SMS) who will be posted
to the 11 RISDA State offices. For accountancy staff, a basic course of 5
days will be offered in project year 1 (PY1) followed by two 5-day adv;nced
courses in PY2 and a 5-day refresher course in PY3. All training will be
conducted at the RISDA Training Institutes and managed by the RISDA Training
Division. Clerical staff will attend a 3-day basic course in PY1. This will
be followed by a 3-day subject specific course in PY2 and a motivational
course of 3-days' duration in PY3. The clerical training program will be
managed by the RISDA Training Division and offered at the RISDA Training
Institutes.
15.      Management training will be offered to 61 RISDA off3ce heads and
acting heads and will cover general management, management of people and
financial awareness. Appreximately 200 staff posted to RISDA offices and
stations with supervisory responsibilities will also be trained in management
techniques tailored t. their needs. The general management course for RISDA
office heads and acting heads in PY1 would last six days and cover planning
and organizing (3 days) and implementation and evaluation (3 days). The
management of people section would be covered in 5 days during project year 2
and include leadership, decision-making, problem solving, labor r lations,
supervision and discipline.  The eiphasis would be on the management of people
as it applies to RISDA offices. Another 5 day refresher course would be
offered in PY3. Financial training for managers would equip them to know what
financial issues were critical to their offices, how to examite finarcial
records and how to interpret financial data. A 3-day training session would
be offered in PY1 followed by a refresher session of 2 days sometime in PY2 or
PY3. Training of other supervisory staff would address subjects such as labor
relations, discipline, and work performance evaluation. In PY1 a 3-day
training session would be organized for these supervisory staff, followed by
similar events in PY2 and PY3. The RISDA Training Division would have
responsibility for the organization and implementation of these programs.



- 75 -                        ANNEX 11
Pape 6 of 7
16.      The estimated daily cost (excluding transport) of RISDA-based
training is Ringgit 50 (US$20); if outs'de venues are used, it increases to
Ringgit 100 (US$40) per day. Cost estimates are calculated on an 80X RISDA
and 202 external basis. Total subcomponent cost is about M$478,000
(US$177,000) (Table 1).
17.      Communication Skills for Extension Workers.  The effectiveness of the
1,300 AROs in communicating with smallholders in the course of routine
extension visits or during the on-site short courses is critical to the
success of the replanting program. Lack of preparation for effective
communication has been clearly identified as a weakness in the AROs. The
project would support the employment of an outside consultant or team of
consultants for 36 months to identify key communications skills, and design
and implement a training program. The consultant team would work closely with
the staff of the Training Division and the Training Institutes at each stage
of the assignment with a view to the activity being routinely implemented post
project. Provision would also be made to enable Training Institute staff to
be trained as trainers of communications skills techniques. It is envisioned
that the consultants would need two months to complete the needs analysis and
about four months to prepare all materials and train the Training Institute
staff Leaving 30 (25 effective) months for training of the 1,300 extension
workers, all of whom can not be trained in communications techniques during
the project implementation period. The Training Institutes can not devote all
of their programs to the special ARO training activities. Therefore, a target
group of 360 would be traincd. The remaining 940 would be trained post
project. Special emphasis would be given to the training of female extension
workers. The 360 trainees would be trained in 18 groups of 20 AROs each cr
six groups per Training Institute. If, for example, the training activities
were contained in two modules, each Institute would be expected to offer 12 (6
x 2) courses of, say, one week over the 25 month implenentation period. This
represents less than 0.5 courses per month and could easily be accommodated by
the Institutes. After each module, the ARO would return to the field to put
into practice the neT'ly acquired skills. The consultants and Training
Division staff would check the effectiveness of the AROs by undertaking a
series of field visits on a sample basis. Any necessary adjustments to the
content or materials would then be made to ensure that the training program
met practical demands. Terms of reference for technical assistance for
communications training are at Appendix 2. Cost details for the subcomponent
are in Table 2.
18.      Strengthening the Management of Training.  RISDA has an ongoing
training program which meets the most pressing needs of trainee groups
annually. Training staff are enthusiastic and keen to serve the client groups
as effectively as possible. However, few of the training staff have been
trained as trainers and none has haa training in the management of human
resources. An organization as large and geographically as widely scattered as
RISDA requires skillful management of its human resources. Such management
would address not only skills training but also take responsibility for
assisting with RISDA career development training, in-house manpower planning,
budgeting for human resource development and initiating systematic management
training. The project would fund the services of a specialist consultant in
the area of Training Management for a period of 18 months (terms of reference
are at Appendix 3) to define RISDA's training needs at all levels and design a



-76 -                              ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 7
training management system to meet those needs. In addition, the specialist
would be exrected to select and recommend members of the Training Division for
human resource management training overseas and to design a program of teacher
training to upgrade the skills of RISDA Training Institute teaching staff.
Cost estimates are in Table 3.
19.      Overseas Training.  A program of overseas training covering a wide
range of financial, technical, managerial and computer skills will be included
in the project human resources and management training program. The estimated
cost of the program is US$257,000 and is shown in Table 4.
20.      Training in Computers and Monitoring and Evaluation.  Detailed
training programs for the implementation of a computerized management
information system and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system at RISDA would
be drawn up after studies on the Muar computerization project and a M&E system
are completed. Incremental costs of local training are expected to be
negligible; overseas trairing has been included in Table 4.
21.      Infrastructure .;td Equipment for Training Institutes.  RISDA's
Institutes vary in structural quality and adequacy of facilities. In all
cases there is insufficient housing to meet the needs of present
establishment. While the question of funding staff housing and additional
multipurpose space for teaching and recreation under a possible Phase II
project would be reviewed during the project period, the project will support
the improvement of farm and access roads. Packages of farm machinery and
teaching equipment will be provided for each of the three Training Institutes
to enable more effective teaching, demonstration and practical activities to
be carried out. Cost estimates are in Table 5.
22.      Mobile Training Equipment.  The project would provide mobile training
equipmer.t to the extension staff in 4 selected States on a trial basis during
the project period. Cost estimates are shown in Table 6. The equipment will
be procured only after subject matter specialists have been appointed at the
State level and experience with the equipment will be carefully reviewed
before end of the project.
Cost of Training Component
23.      The estimated incremental cost of the training component is
US$1,344,700 (Table 7) including 54 months of technical assistance
(US$540,000) and overseas training (US$256,800).



- 77 -
ANNX 11
Table 1
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Trainian in Sugnort of Reorganization
(US$ '000)
No. of Trainees
Course title and           Unit                                 Total
Subject.            duration (days)          cost US$       PYl    PY2    PYS       cost
Promotion Exams    Examination
Preparation (5)          20/day,        200                      20.0
Accountancy         Basic (5)                20/day         100                      10.0
Advanced (5)             20/day                100               10.0
Clerical            Basic (3)                20/day         100    100    100        18.0
Specific (3)             20/day                 75      75        9.0
Motivation (3)           20/day                         75        4.5
Management          General Mgt. (6)         20/day          98                      11.8
Mgt. of People (5)       20/day                 98                9.8
Refresher (5)            20/day                         98        9.8
Financial (3)            20/day          98                       5.9
Refresher (2)            20/day                         98        3.9
Other Supervisory  Basic (3)                 20/day         200                      12.0
Staff               Refresher (3)            20/day                200               12.0
Refresher (3)            20/day                        200       12.0
Subject Matter      Rubber (6)               40/day          11                       2.6
Specialist (SMS)   Oil Palm (6)              40/day          11                       2.6
Other Crops (6)          40/day          11                       2.6
Refresher (3)            40/day                 33                4.0
Training
Methodology (6)        40/day          33                       7.9
Refresher (3)            20/day                 33                2.0
Communications (5)       20/day          33                       3.3
Communications (5)       20/day                         33        3.3
Total                                                                          177.0



-78 -                            ANNEX 11
Table 2
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Communications Skills Training
(US$ '000)
Cost                Total
Unit cost   Number    PYl       PY2     PY3       Cost
Technical Assistance             10.0/mm      36      240.0   120.0      -        360.0
Materials                       lump sum                3.0      2.0     1.0         6.0
Training
Overseas training               2.5/mo       6 /a     7.5     7.5      -         15.0 La
Field Staff Training           2.4/per
1 week course
Course I     18        21.6    21.6     -          43.2
Course II     18                21.6    21.6        43.2
Supervision of training
courses                     0.2/trip     90 /b      3.6     7.2      7.2       18.0 /b
Field observation             0.3/trip      50        3.0     6.0      6.0       15.0
Total Cost                                       278.7   185.9    35.8       485.4 /c
/a Two staff of the Training and Community Development Division to participate in two
3-month communications skills courses overseas (see overseas training program table).
lb Supervision of communications training course at each of the three training
institutes (18 courses per year) two persons per team at US$200 per trip. 2.5 year
program.
/c Total of S500.4 less 15.0 for overseas training (footnote /a).



ANNEX 11
79                                   Table 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Strengthening the ManaRement of Training
(US$ '000)
Cost
Item                         Unit cost   Number    PYl       PY2      PY3     Total cost
Technical Assistance
Training management
specialist                   10.0/mm    l        120.0    60.0      -        180.0
Overseas Training                 2.5/mm      12       15.0    15.0      -         30.0 /a
Training Courses for       2.0 per 6 day       6        4.0      4.0     4.0       12.0
Institute Trainers        course for 6
trainers each
Materials                       lump sum                0.5      0.5                 i.0
Total                                            139.5    79.5      4.0      193.0 /b
!a Included in Overseas Training Program Table 4.
/b Total of S223.0 less 30.0 for overseas training (footnote /a).



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Overseas Training Program
Unit      Parti-                                          Cost
Item                         Cost US$   cipants    Location    Duration          PYl      PY2     PY3      Total Cost
'oon                                                                     (US$ '000)
Management
Development Managers          0.9          6    Philippines   4 weeks          1.9       1.9     1.9         5.7 La
Top Management Program        4.9          3    Philippines   4 weeks          4.9       4.9     4.9        14.7
Seminar (workshop on
Rubber smallholders)        2.2          6    Indonesia      5 days          4.3       4.3     4.3        12.9
S.E. Asia Regional
Computer Conference         2.0          3    Thailand       5 days          2.0       2.0     2.0         6.0 lb
Financial Management          2.3          3    Singapore      2 weeks         2.3       2.3     2.3         6.9
Planning and Control
of Rural Development
Promotion Schemes
Course I                    2.3          3    W.Germany      5 weeks         2.3       2.3     2.3         6.9 /c
Org. & Mgmt. of Coops
& Self Help Organ.
Course 1                    2.3          3    W.Germany      4 weeks         2.3       2.3     2.3         6.9 Id
International Conven-
tion on Quality Circles    0.8           1    Thailand       5 days          0.8         -       -         0.8 Le
Regional Seminar on
Member Partici-
pation in Agric. Coops.    0.8           3    Japan          3 weeks         0.8       0.8     0.8         2.4 lf
Subtotal                           31                                  21.6      20.8    20.8        63.2
z
OQg1
_I



Unit      Parti-                                         Cost
Item                         Cost US$   cipants    Location    Duration          PYl      PY2     PY3       Total Cost
'000                                                                        (US$ '000)
Technical & Extension
Media Didactics                2.3         3    W.Germany      4 weeks         2.3       2.3     2.3         6.9 la
& Extension
Agr. Extension
Course I                     2.3         3    W.Germany      4 weeks         2.3       2.3     2.3         6.9 Jh
Soil Nutrition                 2.5         3    U.K.           3 months        2.5       2.5     2.5         7.5 Li
Micro Computer Applic.
in Extension                 4.0         2    U.K.           2 months        4.0      4.0                  8.0
Agr. Extension Tech.
in the Tropics               8.0         2    Scotland       10 weeks        8.0      8.0                16.0
Communications Trg.                             To be
for Trainers                 7.5         2    arranged       12 weeks        7.5      7.5                15.0 Li
Training management                             To be
for Trainers                15.0         2    arranged       6 months       15.0     15.0                30.0 Li
Subtotal Technical/
Extension                           17                                  41.6     41.6      7.1       90.3
I'd 
I00 V.



Unit      Parti-                                         Cost
Item                        Cost US$    cipants   Location         Duration      P1      PY2     PY3       Total Cost
000                                                                      (US$ '000)
Planning
Agric. & rural
Project Mgmt.               12.0         2    U.K.           14 weeks                12.0    12.0         24.0
Rural Research &
Rural Policy                12.0         2    U.K. Univ.    14 weeks                  12.0    12.0        24.0
of Sussex
Subtotal                               4                                           24.0    24.0         48.0
Computer
Technical aspects
of microcomputer             2.3         2    Singapore      2 weeks         2.3               2.3         4.6
Telecommunication &
communication networks       9.2         2    USA            8 weeks         9.2       9.2                18.4
Design of data
communication network        4.5         2    Singapore      4 weeks                   4.5     4.5         9.0
Database design &
implementation               7.0         2    UK             6 weeks         7.0               7.0        14.0
Managing computer               9.3        1    UK             8 weeks         9.3                           9.3
Subtotal Computer                       9                                  27.8     13.7    13.8        55.3
operation
Total Overseas Training                61                                  91.0    100.1    65.7       256.8
/a   Fees board and lodging paid by CIDA.
/b   Board and lodging provided by Thai Government.
Ic   Board and lodging provided by W. German Government.
Id   Board and lodging provided by W. German Government.                      
/e   Fare, board and lodging provided by Thai Government.
If   Board and lodging provided by ICA/IDACA/Cu Ac.                                                                   M
/R   Board and lodging paid by W. German Government.a_
h   Board and lodging paid by W. German Government.
/i   Board and lodging provided by British Council.
Li   Technical assistance specialists to select trainees and choose courses and location.



-83 -                                ANNEX 11
Tabl- 5
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Infrastructure and Eaul _ t tor 8 RISDA Training Instituto Is
Unit                                             Tetal
'cot     Total    Sukit      Padand    Ayer    cost
Category/Item                        Us$       units     Stroh     Renges    Pa'abas  US6'000
Infroetructure
Kmw *o    -                              s15    256       100        55       100      8.82
Upgraded road                            6    146          e6         -         s0     1.16
Subtotal                                                                           4.98
Po 1ck   e leulstors                    11    120          40        40        40      1.82
Vtdo ao e _*/P'eye'
recorder                          6,600      4 /b         1         1         1    22.00
TV monitor                            376       4           1         1          1     1.60
Compass                                 12    120          40        40        40      1.44
Theodolit. compase                   1,600      8           1         1          1     4.50
Computer & printer                  2,000       4 L         1         1         1      8.00
PA *y*ts                               560     10           4         4          2     S6.5
PA system (portable)                   &Pa    12            4         4         4      4.82
Binding mechine                        750      a           1         1          1     2.25
Overhead projector
(portable)                          400      6            2         2         2     2.40
Water test kit                         60       8           2         2         2      0.86
6  Slide album                          15     80          10        10         10     0.45
Slide projector                       e6o       6           2         2         2      8.60
Drafting tablo                        5S0       2           1         1         -      1.10
Microscope                             850      6           2         2         2      2.10
Budding knito                            6    120          40        40        40      0.60
Pruning knife                           85    120          40        40        40      4.20
Polysteren  cutter                     100      2           1         1          -     0. 20
Platic seal
Tabl- model                         220       6           2         2         2      1.82
Hand operated model                  SO       6           2         2         2      0.80
Books, Journals                  Lump sum
and resource materials            5,000       4  b        1         1         1    20.00
Subtotal                                                                            87.51
Aarc4tural Equipnt
Power cart                         65600        8           1         1          1    16.50
Power *prayero                         720      8           1         1          1     2.16
Grader olade                         1,000      8           1         1         1      8.00
Knapsack sprayers                       85     60          20        20        20      2.10
ogles                                   10    120          40        40        40      1.20
Chaino.,                              275       9           8         8         8     2.47
Motorized tapping knife                68      60          20        20        20     8.78
Circular groas mower                1,000       8           1         1         1      8.00
Tractor mounted auger                  750      8           1         1         1      2.25
Tractor lmplomnts                 Package
Beckhoo, disc plough              2,000       8           1         1         1     6.00
rotovator
Subtotal Agric. Equip.
and Toole                                                                      42.46
SuDportino Wiulmnt
Eloctri ctypewriter, table
and spores                        1,500       8           1         1         1     4.50
Caera (SLR) and  ccessories           50O       8           1         1         1      1.50
Specimen containers                      7     75          26        25        25      0.58
Subtotal Supporting Equipment                                                      6.58
Total                                                                             141.48
/ The thnr RISDA Training institutes Ore: Bukit Sirob, Podong Rangas and Ayer Pa'abno.
The extra ltm Is being pe-cured for tie RISDA Training, and Comnity Devolopent Division.



- 84 -                                ANNE  Ilt
Table 6
MAIAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Mobile Training Eauivment al
Unit         Number               Cost              Total
Item                   Cost (USS)                     PYl    PY2   PY3        Cost
.Four Wheel Drive              20.000           4            -     80.0    -        80.0
Audio-Visual Kit b/            2,000.           4           -       8.0    -        8.0
Generator                        500            4           -       2.0    -        2.0
Hand Tools for Demonstration    250             4           -       1.0    -        1.0
Total                                              -     91.0    -        91.0
a/ To be supplied to 4 selected States on a trial basis during the project period.
bi  Includes slide projector, screen, sound system, flip charts, posters. etc..



- 85 -                  ANNEX 11
Table 7
MAlAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
!
Training Component Cost
*                                          (USS '000)
Item                          Cost
1.  Training in support of              177.0
reorganization
2.  Communication skills training       485.4
3.  Strengthening the management        193.0
of training
4. Overseas training                    256.8
5. Training in Computers and             a/
Monitoring and Evaluation
6. Infrastructure and equipment         141.5
for Training Institutes
. Mobile Training Equipmer.t           91.0
Total                             1344.7 (including 540.0 for TA)
al Incremental costs of local training would be negligible; overseas
training is already included in Item 4 above.



MALYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
6ixuntv 1 oiii n   w   o
rA_rle. Dav",-la 
A n   pt a.u$i rsl                                                                                                                Sm I_I holder
Educ.  Admin.                                Mano ent and Entre-                        Comunity
Can.  dam.  dminitra- ini  raning       inunc   Shorto                       Proj.          Secra- lAaain. Officcr  Adm in.f 0   ctir   o M nl.    ia
ISon.Aaric; Offisel
Ping.& Evcl.    tion of A_r   of Rubbor   of Othor          and        CarmeI   RISO>A             and         tariat  Opy. &        & Con.        Program  lScra-I |Reurco
Curt. Doc.       Develop-        Oil Palm      CropT       Scholar- r    Oin  T  Tr lnina         Financ          *nd    Entrer t- Ad-ini--        'Eval-  teet    Devlop-
CooArd Caur       ont of DLR    oelp.                _A;n.   nourobra                                                                trati on           ratiwn            mont
I cw.            s~~hip   IAd.in    InatrtitutI.
RISOA Trng.                    i RIO  T   RISDA Trn
Inatitut            t Acr          Ilnstitute  Inatitutz",
Padana        IP  'bxo             Bukit Si rch   iKa. Avsh
r1i.e'dio Perakl g  lkb              Ka I Kcnten   | Phang a
L   Conatruction *xpected to be completed 190.



-87 -                   ANNEX 1
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
_SDA PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Communications Trainina
Terms of Reference
1.      URSDA will require the services of specialists in the area of
communications training for a period of 36 person-months to identify key
communications skil:s required by the RISD& extension workers (AROs):
design a training program to teach those skills; train trainers; supervise
implementation of the training program and complete a program evaluation.
Background
2.       The approximately 1,300 AROs are in frequent contact with RISDA
smallholders and are responsible for the transfer of technolegy and
improved practices in the replanting. maintenance, tapping and primary
processing of rubber. The AROs are also expected to interpret RISDA
policies and programs to smallholders and to act as facilitators by
channeling smallholder enquiries about non-rubber on-farm and off-farm
enterprises to the appropriate source of expertise or assistance.
3.       Communications skills are extremely important if the AR0s are to
be effective in transferring technology and information to smallholders;
Inadequate preparation in communications has been identified as a weakness
in ARO pre-service and in-service training despite the fact that the
extension service continually offers on-site short training sessions to as
many as possible of the 400,000 individual smallholders who form RISDA's
client group.
4.       The RISDA project will support the design and implementation of a
training program to upgrade communications skills among the AROs and to
create the capacity in the RISDA Training and Community Development
Division to continue the program on a regular basis.
5.       The Technical Assistance Specialists would be expected to:
(a) Identify key communications methods used in ARO-smallholder
training/advisory transactions;
(b) Identify skills required by AROs to communicate effectively with
project smallholders;
(c) Design a communications training program with supporting methods;
(d)  Train trainers from the Training and Cormuaity Development
Division;                                                                           i
(e)  Participate in the implementation of the training program for AROs
at RISDA's three regional Training Institutes;



- 88 -                 ANNEXil
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
(f) Make necessary adjustments to the training program based on field
experience; and
(g) Prepare an evaluation report based on training program review and
field observations of AROs at work.
Qualifications and Experience
6.       The specialists should have:
(a) appropriate academic qualifizations from a recognized institution;
(b) at least ten years experience in training of middle level staff
and trainers with emphasis on communicatiors skills training and
program and materials design;
(C) a background in the agriculture sector preferably in extension or
tree crops or a combination of both (in the case of a team of
specialists, one with a communications training background and one
wQth an agriculture sector background could be considered); and
(d) ability to communicate fluently in English.
The specialists would be expected to undertake travel to the field and
spend time at the RISDA Training Institutes during program implementation.
Familiarity with the Malaysian language would be advantageous.
Duration of Assignment
7.       It is envisioned that a team of, say, two specialists during the
first year of the assignment would undertake needs analysis, design the
training program, begin the training of trainers and start implementation
of the ARO training program (24 person months). In the second year, one
specialist could oversee the continuing implementation of the ARO 1rogram
and complete the evaluation report.



ANNEX 11
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 2
HALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Technical Assistance for the Strengthening of Training Management
Terms of Reference
Background Information
1.       RISDA will require the services of a Training Specialist for 18
months to strengthen the Training and Community Development Division's
capacity to manage human resources and more effectively implement its
training programs.
2.       RISDA has four well-defined trainee target groups comprising about
1,300 field extension workers; about 850 key farmers or Smallholder
Community Development Leaders (SCDLS) and up to 400,000 individual
smallholders; management, administrative and support staff numbering about
3,800; and training staff based at headquarters and the Training
Institutes. Training is carried out under the direction of the RISDA
Training and Community Development Division nuich offers most of its
training courses in its three regional Training Institutes. Yield
extension workers conduct short one day on-site training activities for
smallholders on a regular basis.
3.       The Training Specialist will be required to work with the Training
and Community Development Division to:
(a) Define the breadth of the training activities required to meet the
skill and knowledge needs of all levels of staff, SCDLs and
smallholders;
(b) Design a training management system to meet the needs;
(c) Select key individuals from the Training and Community Development
Division for training in human resources management;
(d) Design a program of teacher training to upgrade the skills of
staff in the RISDA Training Institutes;
(e) Guide the Training and Community Development Division through an
annual training program plarning and implementation exercise and
make necessary adjustments to the system;
(f)  Produce a RISDA specific manual on the minagement of human
resources; end
(g) Prepare an end of assignment evaluation report.



ANNEX 11
- 9-                         Appendix 3
Page 2 of 2
Qualifications and Experience
4.       The specialist should have:
(a) earned academic qualifications from a recognized institution;
(b)  at least ten years experience in designing and impl-menting human
resource management activities for organizations of size similar
to RISDA's;
(c) ability to address human resources development at all levels in
the institution with special analysis of management level
training;
(d) experience with teacher training for staff who will train field
extansion workers and farmer leaders; and
(e) ability to communicate fluently in English.
5.       The specialist would be expected to undertake travel to the field
to visit RISDA field offices and Training Institutes and observe extension
worker training activities at the village level. Familiarity with the
Malaysian language would be advantageous.



- 91 -                          ANNEX 12.1
Page 1 *f 2
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
A STUDY OF MINI-ESTATES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.       RISDA's mini-estate program was initiated in 1979 to accelerate
technological development and increase productivity in the rubber
smallholder sector and to put back into production the increasing number of
small rubber farms left idle by their owners for various reasons. Under
the system, owners of contiguous holdings form estate entities under long-
term RISDA management.
2.       RISDA had developed 365 mini-estates (287 rubber and 78 oil palm)
through 1988, of which 100 were in production. By end 1990, the number of
estates in production is expected to grow to 291. This would be a very
heavy production management responsibility -n RISDA. So far RISDA has not
worked out a plan to manage mini-estates coming into production. Although
no systematic evaluation of the mini-estate program has been conducted so
far, available information indicates that some mini-estates are viable
while others have very doubtful viabilitv. To this apparent lack of
uniform development is added the problem of widely varying levels of
smallholder participation and interests in the mini-estate program.
Study Objectives
3.       The objective of the study is to recommend the most suitable
organisational and management structure for the development and operation
of mini-estates and procedural changes required to increase their
efficiency.
Scope of the Study
4.       The study would:
(i)   review current procedures of developing and managing mini-
estates starting from the initial mobilization of farmers
through to management of the mature production unit; in
particular, review the efficiency of different contractual
arIangements being followed;



- 92 -                           ANNEX 12.1
Page 2 of 2
(ii)   review the viability _f existing mini-estates based on a
sample survey which would determine the technical development
standards, experience and quality of management, yield
profiles, costs and incomes of the surveyed mini-estates;
categorize mini-estates according to their viability; and
assess the reasons for unsatisfactory performance of some
mini-estates;
(iii)   in the light of the viability analysis, analyze the current
and potential problems involved in the developmeit and
production management of mini-estates;
(iv)   in the light of current and pot,.ntial problems, assess whether
RISDA should continue to be responsible for mini-estates or
whether they should be hived off completely or at least their
production management from RISDA; for the latter, consider
various options including creation of a new subsidiary to
handle these tasks or transfer of these tasks to ESPEK or
FELCRA; in considering various options, take into account
budgetary procedures for financing mini-estates, legal
problems, widely varying levels of smallholder participation
and interests in the program, and deployment of RISDA staff
currently involved in the mini-estate program;
(v)   recommend the most efficient long-term organizational
arrangement for developing mini-estates and managing their
producLion; and
(vi)   recommend suitable procedures to increase efficiency of mini-
estates.
Staffing
5.       The study team will consist of an economist or organization and
management specialist (4 person-months), a financial analyst (3 person-
months) and a tree crops agronomist (2 person-months).
Timing
6.       The study will be completed by September 30, 1990.



- 93                           ANNEX 12.2
Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
A STUDY OF COOPERATIVES AND NARSCO
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.       With the approval of the Department of Cooperatives (DOC). RISDA
initiated 63 District Cooperatives, which, together with .rISDA, hold shares
in NARSCO, the apex body. The cooperatives were developed to: (a) provide
services (inputs and marketing) to smallholder members; and (b) eventually
take over the Group Processing Centers established by RISDA. In view of
the checkered history of the cooperative movement in Malaysia, RISDA
appointed its own staff, paid by it, to manage the cooperatives. The
cooperatives have strong linkages with RISDA. They receive a commission
from RISDA for input storage (Sen 0.90150 kg bag). In addition, some
cooperatives obtain RISDA contracts for planting material. The
cooperatives have also recently startcd purchasing rubber from their
members with the help of interest-free advances from RISDA, repayable after
six munths.
2.       Since the inception of the cooperatives in 1980, their membership
has expanded considerably and was about 60,000 in 1988. However, the
financial performance of the cooperatives remains spotty. Available data
indicate that 59 of the 63 cooperatives showed a profit in 1986. However,
if adjustments are made for the salaries of the managers who are paid by
RISDA, only 11 would remain finacially viable. To improve the
profitability of the cooperrtves, RISDA has, as a policy, started giving
contracts to the cooperatives (para. 1). But not all cooperatives would
become viable since it appears that some Districts do not provide an
economically viable basis for the operation of District-wide cooperatives.
NARSCO, which is owned by the cooperatives, has very weak operational
linkages with them. Morever, RISDA's management has decided that, starting
1992, the seconded staff should either be absorbed and paid by the
cooperatives or return to RISDA. In preparation for this event-tality, an
additional 63 assistant managers have been recruited on a contract basis to
either work with or replace the RISDA staff.
3.       NARSCO, though technically not a subsidiary of RISDA, is  closely
aligned with it. While NARSCO is engaged in input supply and marketing,
its subsidiaries are engaged in real estate development, insurance and
travel, and rubber glove manufacturing. NARSCO is already performing tne
selling function on behalf of RISDA (for a commision of sen 1/kg); it is
expected to take over the purchasing function soon; the takeover of the
processing function (see para. 4) is expected to follow.
4.       RISDA undertakes the processing of sheet rubber in RISDA-operated
smokehouses (currently two in operation), which were developed with a loan
from the Government. In addition, there are small Group Processing Centers



- 94 -                         ANNEX 12.2
Page 2 of 3
(about 3,000 currently active) and larger Central Processing Centers (7
currently active), which produce unsmoked sheet rubber. These are managed
by smallholders themselves, th--.C. established through grants by
Government/RISDA.
Study Obiectives
5.       The objective of the study is to recommend ways to develop a sound
cooperative structure for the smallholders served by RISDA, including
restructuring and strengthening of NARSCO.
Scope of the Study
6.       The study would:
(i)     review the present organizational and financial situation of
the 63 cooperatives and linkages among cooperatives, RISDA
and NARSCO;
(ii)     analyze the impact on cooperatives of RISDA's decision to
let the cooperatives pay for the managerial staff from 1992
onwtrds;
(iii)     assess alternatives to improve the viability of
cooperatives, including merger of the unviable with the
viable cooperatives (the feasibility of
r,rgers/consolidation to be examined in the light of the
prevailing laws for cooperatives) and the possible role of
cooperatives as shareholders of Schemes 1956 and 1959, if
these Schemes are mer'2ed and become a subsidiary of RISDA,
and shareholders of E.JPEK, which is now only a management
company, but could become a full-fledged subsidiary of RISDA
bfter the current dispute with the National Association of
Smallholders (NASH) over ownership of some estates is
resolved;
(iv)     review the present operations, finances and staffing of
NARSCO and its subsidiaries, in particular the selling
function performed on behalf of RISDA;
(v)     review the arrangements nec.ssary for the effective
undertaking of the rubber purchasing function by NARSCO,
including a possible role by the Malaysian Rubber
Development Corporation (MARDEC) in assisting NARSCO;
(vi)     review the arrangements necessary for the effective transfer
of RISDA's rubber processing function (smokehouses) to
NARSCO; in this connection, also examine the finances and
operations of carrently active Group Processing Centers
(GPCs) and Central Processing Centers (CPCs) and their
linkages with cooperatives and RISDA's smokehouses; and



- 95 -
ANNEX 12.2
Page 3 of 3
(vii)     recommend ways to evolve a sound cooperative structure
(including required respective roles of RISDA and the DOC);
to restructure NARSCO's operations, including its
subsidiaries, and strengthen its linkages with cooperatives;
to improve the efficiency of GPCs and CPCs; and to divest
RISDA of its rubber processing activities (smokehouses).
Staffing
7.       The study team will consist of an economist or organization and
management specialist with a strong background in cooperatives development
(3 person-months), a financial analyst (3 person-months) and a marketing
specialist with experience in rubber (2 person-months).
Timing
8.       The study will be completed by September 30, 1990.



- 96 -
ANNEX 12.3
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSTA
RISDA PROJECT
A STUDY OF SCHEMES 1956 AND 1959
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1.       The Schemes cover: (a) the 569 ha of rubber nurseries at 11
separate locations that were acqt'ired under Scheme 1956; and (b) 2,ZOO ha
of rubber and oil palm plantations in three estates (which also produce
300,000 oil palm seedlings) that were developed under Scheme 1959. Being
better endowed, Scheme 1959 has consistently operated profitably.   In
contrast, Scheme 1956 has faced financial difficulties. Since 1983, Scheme
1956 has shown a profit only in 1987 and 1988 and, as a consequence, it has
been in debt to Scheme 1959.
2.       Operationally the two Schemes are managed as one but maintain
separate accounts to comply with their statutory requirements. The two
Schemes are expected to be merged after completion of legal procedures
currently underway. After merger, these Schemes, could be run along
different lines, including operation as a subsidiary which would make it
possible for them to offer higher salaries, improve employee morale and
attain the necessary flexibility to facilitate greater operating efficiency
over time.
Study Objectives
3.       The objective of the study is to recommend the most appropriate
organisational arrangement for Schemes 1956 and 1959 after their merger.
Scope of the Study
4.       The study would:
(i) review the present operations, finances and staffing of
Schemes 1956 and 1959;
(ii) assess implications of the Scheme 1956 policy of producing
about 70Z of RISDA's requirements for planting materials and
relying on private nurseries for the rest;
(iii) assess the reliability of private nurseries in providing
planting materials for RISDA's replanting program and analyse
issues;



- 97 -
-. 97 -ANNEX 12.3
Page 2 of 2
(iv)   compare the cost of production of planting materials in
Schemes 1956 and 1959 with that in private nurseries and
analyze the reasons for the differences, if any; and
(v)   in the light of the above, analyze whether Schemes 1956 and
1959 should be fully integrated into RISDA (with respect to
both operaticns and finance and accounts) or converted into a
subsidiary run on commercial lines, and make recommendations.
Staffing
5.       The study team will consist of an economist or financial analyst
(3 person-months) and a tree crops agronomist tl person-month).
Timing
6.       The study will be completed by September 30, 1990.



- 98 -                              ANNEX 12.4
-~                                Page 1 of 3
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Consultant Services for A Technical Review of
the Pilot Smallholder Information System at Muar
Terms of Reference
Background
1.       In paral'el with the feasibility study on a computerized Management
Information System (MIS) for RISDA, a pilot experiment has been conducted at
the Muar Regional Office since 1987. Wihile the MIS for RISDA being considered
concentrates mainly on the needs of the Headquarters and to some extent the
State Offices, the Muar pilot project is primarily designed to automate the
procedures governing the release of the replanting grants by RISDA and the use
of the proceeds by the smallholders.
2.       To a very large extent the MIS being considered emphasizes the
accounting and financial control aspects, but it also includes a preliminary
design of a "Smallholder Information Module". In this regard, the Muar system
has gone much further it has practically automated all the forms in use for
the release of the replanting grants. While the MIS would eventually ' ive to
address the service window aspect of RISDA's activities, the Muar system would
not be meaningful unless it is upwardly compatible and connected with the MIS
control system. lt is, therefore, imperative that the experience gained at
the Muar Regional Office for automating the entire procedure of handling
smallholder accounts be technically evaluated, with a view to incorporating
useful elements into the integrated MIS.
3.       Although the micro/mini computer-based smallholder replanting grant
administration system at Muar has been in use in parallel with the existing
manual procedures since 1987, the experience has not been systematically
reviewed to establish the technical appropriateness of the equipment for the
tasks the equipment is expected to handle. Nor has the relevance of the Muar
experiment been systematically examined in the light of the service window
function of RISDA field offices. It is believed that a proper evaluation of
the Muar experience would greatly facilitate the overall design of the MIS for
RISDA. The insight to be gained from this evaluation would result in
considerable cost saving for RISDA in computerizing its service (as distinct
from its purely internal control) functions.
Objective of the Consultancy
4.       The objective of the study is a thorough technical review of the Muar
experience and to assess its relevance to the proposed MIS of RISDA.



ANNEX 12.4
99 -                              Page 2 of 3
Scope of Work
5.       The topics for evaluation would, inter alia, include the following:
(i) the precision test on input-output relationships;
(ii) the compatibility test between the computer output and the
existing output format;
(iii) the completeness test, i.e., whether all the forms in use are
adequately covered;
(iv) the efficiency tcit, i.e. whether the system is operating
efficiently;
(v) the economy test, i.e. the magnitude of manpower savings
achieved and achievable;
(vi) are the programs in need of revision?
(vii)  how much of hi'torical data should be included to give a
complete accoumt of the smallholdez transactions?
(viii) how should the historical data be entered into the system, i.e.
by using in-house resources or a bureau service?
(ix) how flexible is the pilot system in catering for responsibility
centers of different sizes in terms of registered smallholders?
(x)  is the system in use like'y to become obsolete in the near
future?
(xi) is the system upwardly compatible with requiremsents of the State
Offices and the Headquarters system?
(xii) if the system is to be adopted for all respcnsibility centers
(proposed new RISDA Districts), what would be the realistic
implementation time bpan?
(xiii) what is the estimated capital and recurrent cost of implementing
the system throughout RISDA? and
(xiv) what other types of information could also be conveniently
included in the system?
Qualifications
6.       The consultant should have significant experience in computerized
database management on mini- and/or micro-computers in terms of both the
hardware and software aspects, particularly in the SQL operational
environment.



ANNEX 12.4
- 100 -                           Page 3 of 3
Timing
7.       The evaluation as outlined above is estimated to require about three
person-months.  As the computer on which the Muar sy3tem is being run is on
loan from the vendor, it is imperative that the technical evaluation should
begin as soon as possible. Furthermore, in order that the findings could be
incorporated into the overall design of the MIS for RISDA, the evaluation
exercise should be completed no later than September 30, 1990.



ANNEX 12.5
- 101 -                              Page 1 of 2
MIAYSLA
RISDA PROJECT
Consultant Services for Monitoring and Evaluation
Terms of Reference
Background
1.       In RISDA the monitoring of physical and financial progress at
corporate management level is undertaken by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
located in the Planning Division. Similar monitoring of progress is being
conducted by the various operational divisions at the Headquarters level.
While the data required for progress monitoring are submitted by the field
offices, these offices currently do not have a direct, formal monitoring
function. Top management of RISDA is aware of problems of data accuracy and
reliability, as well as timeliness in the availability of some key items of
information. RISDA now wants to address these problems as well as introduce a
system of performance monitoring.
2.       Under the Project, the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in the Planning
Division of RISDA would, in addition to its current functions, develop a
capability to coordinate, advise and asa'st, all relevant operational units
within RISDA at both Headquarters and field levels in their efforts to
implement a system of performance monitoring.
3.       To this end, the monitoring units in the Headquarters Divisions would
be organizationally streamlined. Moreover, under the proposed reorganization
of RISDA, it is envisaged that one staff member in each Responsibility Center
(proposed new RISDA District Offices) and State Office would be designated to
be responsible for performance monitoring activities, and at the State level,
the officer would work closely with the Planning Officer.
4.       Monitoring of RISDA's primary function of replanting would be based
on the following performance indicatorst
(i)  planting survival rate for the first two years;
(ii) girth growth of rubber during immaturity;
(iii) time lapse from planting to first harvesting;
(iv) output of cash crops; and
(v)  rubber yields.
These performance indicators would be analyzed against such factors as type of
RISDA replanting system (individual, group, simultaneous and mini-estates),
husbandry practices, level of input applied, particularly fertilizers and
latex stimulant, participation in RISDA input subsidy programs, and other
factors relevant to management and operational decision making.  To the extent
that they have a direct bearing on the understanding of the results to be



-102-                     ~~~~~AN=3  12. 5
- 102 -                           Page 2 of 2
obtained, background variables such as holding size, tenancy, household labor
aailability, atc. shall also be included. Theme performanne Indicators,
explanatory factors and background variables would be adjuso.ed for replanting
with oil palm.
Objectives of Consultancy
5.       working closely with the staff of the RSDA Planning Division, the
consultants are expected to submit a detailed proposal to RISDA on
implemending the system of performance monitoring, defining the analytical
techniques and the use of the results.
Scope of Work
6.       The consultants shoqld concentrate on developing the performance
monitoring for rubber replanting. Within this scope, they woulds
(i)  review existing data being collected that would suit the data
requirement of performance monitoring; as far as possible,
additional data collection should be avoided;
(ii)  suggest wvys and means by which the quality of the data in tervs
of availability and accuracy could be lmproved;
(iii) propose methods of analyzing the indicators against the factors
and variables;
(iv)  advise on appropriate software for data analysis at Headquarters
and in the Responsibility Centers;
(v)  estimate the costs of implementing the complete system;
(vi)  assess the training needs for key staff members as well as
general training requirements of field level staff;
(vii)  devise a program of activities for tt.  esriod 1990 to 1992,
including lmplementation, training, --kahops and mEnagement
seminars;
(viii) devise an hierarchical reporting format to ensure that results
are considered at the relevant operational levels for management
decision-making; and
(ix)  recommend an appropriate level of staff input for the monitoring
of net income obtained and investments made by owners/operators
of the replanted holdings.
Staffing and Timing
7.       The consultants should have significant experience in the technical
aspects of smallholder rubber production in Malaysia. Past experience in
analyzing field data for management decision-making purposes is eosential.
Familiarization with the _mllholder replanting program is an ae..antage.
About six person-months would be required and the study will be completed by
September 30, 1990.



- 103 -
ANNEX 13.1
MAIAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Project Components by Year
(ME Million?
Foreign
1990     1991    1992   Total   Exchange (Z)
Replanting and Maintenance       121.5    130.6   144.6   396.7        35
Rehabilitation                     3.0       3.0     3.0      9.0      35
Agricultural Inputs Program       15.0      15.0    15.0    45.0       55
Infrastructure                     2.5       2.5     2.5     7.5       35
Supplementary Costs of
Mini-estates                     28.0      21.0    19.0    68.0       15
Extension and Smallholder
Training                      3.0      3.5      4.0    10.5       10
Management Facilities              5.0       4.1     2.5    11.6       80
Staff Training 1/                  1.5       1.0     0.4     2.9       75
Studies                            0.8       -       -       0.8       90
Base Costs                 180.3    180.7   191.0   552.0       35
Physical Contingencies 2;          0.5       0.4     0.3     1.2       80
Price Contingencies 3/             0.4       2.0     2.5     4.9       75
Total Project Costs        181.2    183.1   193.8   558.1       35
1/ Including overseas training and technical assistance for training.
2/ At 1OZ for management facilities.
3/ For agricultural inputs. management facilities and staff training and
technical assistance (calculated on base costs plus physical
contingencies). Local price contingencies calculated at 2.8Z for 1990
and 3.52 for 1991 and 1992; foreign price contingencies at 7.21 for 1990
and 4.4Z for 1991 and 1992.



MALAYSIA
RISCA PROJECT
COSTS OF REPLANTING AND MAINT8NANC 1I
1090                                       1991                                         109
WR OF       Rubber         Oil Palo      Other CTroSm   Rubbr          all Palo       obir Crop      Rubbe           lilm          other C=ro
REPLANTVIO  "A    COST    HA     COST    MA    COT      NA    COST    OA    COST    MA    COS        H                     COST
1984      12,1W0   5,990      -      -     -      -       -       -                    -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -
1985       7,550   4,884      -      -     -      -   7,550  8,7        -
lo6        7,619   4,380      -      - 2,320  1,485   7,819  4,830      -       -      -       -   ,619   3,64       -       -      -       -
1987      10,606   6,S52  7,22  2,680 5,206 8,215  10,60   6,552        -       -  2,170  1,845  10,06  6,552
1093      14,505   5,961  5,704 4,223 4,J70 2,699  14,50   0,961  5,704  2,114  4,370  2,09  14,50   3,961          -          2,492  1,53
1909      17,299  15,89  9,013 10,022 2,324 1,599  17,299 10,637 9,013  6,62  2,824   1,486 17,299 10,17  90,018  8,841  2,824  1,486
190       19,615  81,887  9,402 14,029 2,555  8,091  19,315  17,627 9,462  10,521  2,556   1,754 10,161  12,241  0,462  7,014   2,555   1,r0
1091          -        -      -      -     -      -  20,747 52,311 0,0   14,720  2,711  4,095 20,747 13,45        , 929n  11,040  2,T1  1,061
1092          -        -      -      -     -      -       -       -     -       -      -       - 22,36411  6.,154 10,467 15,540  2.692  4,84
Total     69.72  ?7.M2 81403 80959 16.774 12.607  69.841 65.109 84.107 84.087 14.186  11.827 118.652  s              1  86.641 12.ff4  10a740
B/ Dased on grant peyment Im laent as shoun at Annex 5.
a.



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS PROGRAM
1990                     1991                       1992
Cost                     Cost                           Cost
INPUTS                         HA       (M$ '000)       HA    (M$ '000)             HA          (M$'000)
Fermilizer                   60,000        10,300       60,000      10,300          60,000          10,300
Chemicals/Weedicides         23,000         2,300       23,000       2,300          23,000           2,300
Latex Stimulants              8,000           600        8,000         600           8,000             600
Cash Crop                     2,000         1,500        2,000       1,500           2,000           1,500              C
Cover Crop                    1,000           300         1,000        300           1,000             300
Total Base Costs             15,000                   15.000                          15,000
Physical Contingencies                                                                              -
Price Contingencies 1/                     -                    1,414                          2,068
Total Costs                  15,000                   16,414                          17,068
1/ Inflation rates as in Annex 13.1 (footnote 3); foreign exchange component is 55%.



- 106 -
ANNEX 13.4
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Costs of Monasement Facilities
1990                  1991                 1992
Cost                   Cost                Cost
Unit    (A$ '000)      Unit   (M$ '000)      Unit  (M$ '000)
Vehicles                       36       2,018       31      1.736          25     1,386
of which:  Bus                  1          76        1         76           -         -
Lorry 1 112 ton      6        282              -          -                -
Lorry 3 1/2 ton    10         570        13       728          1OF       570
Lorry 5 112 ton      7        518         7       518           6        444
Lorry 7 1/2 ton      2        158         -         -           -          -
Van                  3        120         3       120           3        120
4-Wheel Drive        7        294         7       294           6       252
Computer Equipment 1/           -       2,500        -      2,000           -     1,000
Training Equipment 2/           -         369        -        246           -         -
Other Office Equipment          -         100        -        100           -       100
Total Base Cost             4,987               4.082                 2,486
Physical Contingencies (10Z)          499                 408                   249
Price Contingencies 31                347                 484                   423
Total Costs                5833                4,974                 3,158
1/    Includes a mainframe at the head office, mini-computers at 11 States and 70 personal
computers for the head office, Training Institutes and the new responsibility
centers emerging from RISDA's field level reorganization.
2/    Includes mobile training equipment to be used by field extension staff and equipment
for Training Institutes. See Annex 11, Tables 5 and 6 for details.
3/    Inflation rates as in Annex 13.1 (footnote 3).  Foreign exchange component is 80X.



- 107 -
ANNEX 13.5
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Costs of Staff Training and Technical Assistance 1/
(Ks '000)
1990            1991           1992
Local Training
Training in Support of Reorganization        230              130            119
Communication Skills Training                 76              151             95
-     Courses for Institute Trainers                11               11             11
Overseas Trainins                                  246              270            178
Technical Assistance for Training
Communication Skills Training 21             648              324              -
Training Management 3/                       324              162
Consultancy for Studies 4                          800                -              -
Total Base Costs                           2.335            1.048            403
Physical Contingencies                       -                -              -
Price Contingencies 5/                      97              109             53
Total Costs                                2.432            1.157            456
1/    See Annex 11 for details.  These costs are incremental, that is, over and above the
costs of current programs of RISDA's Training Institutes.
2t    36 person-months.
3/    18 person-months.
4/    29 person-monchs.
5/    For local training (1002 local cost) and oversets training and T.A. for training
(100Z foreipn cost) at rates given in Annex 13.1 (footnote 3).



- 108 -
Annex 14
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Schedule of Loan Disbursements
----------------------------------------------------------__---------------
Disbursements At the         Disbursement
Bank             Period          End of the Period            Profile Malaysian
Fiscal           Ending             Amount                    Agricultural
Year                              (US$ Million)    Z          Projects
------------------------------------------------------------------__-------
90          June 30, 1990             C.3             -                0
91          Dec. 31, 1990             4.0             6                2
June 30, 1991           12.0            17                 6
92          Dec. 31, 1991           21.0            30                12
June 30, 1992           33.0            46               19
93          Dec. 31, 1992           48.0            68                26
June 30, 1993           63.0            89               33
94          Dec. 31, 1993           71.0           100                40
Loan Closing Date: December 31, 1993
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-----



- 109 -
ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 2
MAIAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Proposed Field-Level Reorganization of RISDA
1.          The five-tier field structure (State, Region, District, Station
and the Field Extension Staff) has led to duplication of effort and in some
instances fine-tuning of responsibilities that has complicated the work and at
times violated the basic principle of accountability. For instance, both the
Station and the District Offices have no approval responsibilities but only
act as conduits for replanting and input subsidy schemes and in some ways
duplicate each other's work. Similarly, the accounts are maintained by the
Regional Offices, which forward them to the headquarters, while the State
Offices, which also maintain accounts, have little control over actual
expenditures, thus duplicating the record keeping function without exercising
control. Vehicles, to mention another example, are kept at the Regions, but
their maintenance contracts are given by the State Offices. Thus Regional
Managers are supposed to maintain their vehicles in working order but have
little say' in where they are maintained. There are also duplications in the
approval of replanting grants leaving no clear segregation of responsibilities
among the various field offices. Normal replanting applications are approved
by the Regions, premature replanting by States, while mini-estates are
approved by the Head Office. In fact, approval and administrative procedures
for mini-estates are separated to a point that no particular individual can be
held accountable for any problems or failures during planning or
implementation. The mini-estate schemes are prepared by the District/Regional
Offices and approved by the Head Office. The contractors for
operating/developing the mini-estates are approved by the State Offices, the
accounts are maintained by the Regional Offices and the mini-estates are
supervised by field staff who report to the District Officers.
2.    In recognition of some of the problems highlighted above and also to
decentralize the services with a view to bringing them closer to the
smallholders, RISDA's management has proposed the elimination of Regional
Offices and reduction in the number of District Offices. There are obvious
advantages to the above proposal. Firstly, the present duplication would be
avoided.  Secondly, there would be closer supervision.  Thirdly, accounting
and finarcial functions would be brought closer to the smallholders saving
them travel time. Finally, there would be better coordination between
approval, input distribution and stores management as well as greater
accountability of performance
3.          It is proposed to replace the present 23 Regional and 83 District
Offices with 61 District Offices (Table 1), which will be aresponsibility
centers'. In addition, two State offices, Perlis and Pinang, which have no
Districts, will also act as responsibility centers. In order to achieve



- 110 -
ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 2
greater operational efficiency, RISDA has adopted some criteria for defining
its new Districts and State offices shown in Tables 2 and 3 respectively. The
staff allocation of each grade of office is being worked out by RISDA. Based
on preliminary analysis at appraisal, there is an overall shortage of staff in
the field. This shortage will be met through transfer of staff from the head
office and from the Marketing Division, which will no longer be needed as
RISDA's marketing function is to be transferred to NARSCO.
4.          As the number of responsibility centers would increase from 23 to
63, upgrading of posts would be necessary. There would be a nominal surplus
of C and B category staff and a nominal shortage of A category staff and,
therefore, based on preliminary analysis at appraisal, some extension officers
and clerical staff would need to be upgraded from C to B and from B to A. In
addition, B level positions may be required to handle computerization. When
computers are introduced at the proposed Districts, additional clerical
positions would need to be upgraded from C to B category. Additionally, when
the performance monitoring function is introduced at the proposed District
level, some C level staff would need to be upgraded to B category to handle
the job. These staff would be supervised by the existing Planning Officers at
the State level who, in the interim, would undertake the performance
monitoring function at both the State and District office levels.



- 111 -
ANNEX 15
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
PROPOSED DECENTRALIZATION OF RISDA OFFICES
STATE             REGIONS               EXISTING RISSDA       PROPOSED RISDA        PROPOSED
(Category)          (To be aboltshed)   DISTRICTS              DISTRICTS             CATEGORY
1. JOHOR (1)         Jo. l   Utarn         Musr                  Juar                     1
Johor Utars Tengph  S.gag t                S gast                   2
Johor Tengah         Batu Pahbt            B*tu Pahat               I
Keluang               Kelueng                  2
Mersing               Mersing                  4
Johor Barat          Ponttnn               Ponttan                  2
Johor Selatan        Johor Bshru           Johor Bahru              2
Kota Tinggi           Kota Tinggt              4
2. MELAKA (3)             -                Alor CaGjh            Alor Gajah               8
lJain                 Jadsn                    a
Mslaka Tengah        MJlaks Tengah             4
Masjid Tanah             4
3. NECERI SEMBILAN (3)    -                J.lebu                J-lobu                   4
Kuala Plsh            Kuala Plabh              8
Tampin                Tampin                   4
Re bau                Rembau                   4
Seremban              Seremban                 4
Port Dickson          Port Dickson             4
Jempul               Jaopul                    4
4. PERAK (1)         Perak Barat           ManJung              MUnjung                   4
Kampung Osjah        Perk Tengah/Pertk         3
Hills
Parnt
Perak Selatan        Batang Ped9ng         Batang Pedang            8
Perak Tengah         Kuala Kengear         Kuala Kangear            8
Sung-t Siput          Kinta                    4
Lorut Matang         Larut Matang/         Larut Matang/S.laa       3
Selausa
Kerian                Kerlon                   4
Porak Hulu           Grik                  Perak Hulu               3
Kroh
L.nggong
S. PULAU PINANG (4)      -
S. KEDAH (2)         Kedah Tengnh          Baling                Baling                   8
SIk                  Sik                       4
Yan                   Yen/Kuala Muda           4
Kuala Muds
Kedsh Selatan        Kulim                 Kulim                    8
Bandar Baru           Bonder Baru              4
Kedah Utara          Kote Setar            Kote Setar               4
Pendang               Pendang                  4
Padang Terop          Padang ToraD             4
Longkswl              Langkoeu/Kubang Pasu    4
Kubang Panu



-112 -
ANNEX 15
Table l
Page 2 of 2
STATE             REGIONS              EXISTING RISDA       PROPOSED RISDA       PROPOSED
(Category)          (To be abolIshod)   DISTRICTS             DISTRICTS            CATEGORY
7. PERLIS (4)
8. PAHANG (1)        Pahang T.ngah       Jorantut              lorsntut                 8
Tmm_rloh             Tsmorloh                 2
Pohang Timur        Kuantan               Kuantan                 4
UMran                Haren                   4
Poknn                Pokan/Rompin             4
Rompin
Pahang Barst        Kuala Lipl           Kuala Liple             8
Raub                 Raub                     B
Bentong              Bontong                  8
9. TERENGGANU        Torengganu Selatan  Dungun                Dungun                  4
(2)                                   K_maman               Komaman                 4
T*rnngganu Tengah   Marang                Marang                  4
Kuala T.rengganu     Kuala Terengganu         4
Hulu Tsrongganu      Hulu T.rongganu          8
Tfrengganu Utara    Bosut                 Besut                   4
Setiu                Setiu                    4
10. KELANTAN (2)      Kelantan Barst       Hacong               Macang                   8
Psitr Has            Pasu  Has                a
Tanah HUrth          Tnahb Morah/Jell         a
Jell
Kelantan Utara      Kota Bhsru            Kota Bharu/Bacok/
Bacok                           Tumpat        a
Tumpat
Pasir Puteb          Pasir Putoh              4
Kelantan Selatan    Kuala Krai            Kuala Krai              8
Cuo Uusang           Gua Husung              a
11. SELANGOR (8)              -           "ulu Selangor   )    Goo bk/H. Selangor/
Ooubak/Potallng)    Potaling/
W. Porsokutuan          a
-           Kuala Selangor       Kuala Selangor/
Kelang                     Kelang            4
-           Kuala Langat         Sepang/Kual. Langut/
Soprng                      Ulu Langat        a
Ulu Langat
Totsl l1



- 113 -
ANNEX 15
Table 2
NALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Category of Proposed RISDA Districts (Responsibility Centers)
Proposed
RISDA Districts                                                  Norms
Category 1         Registered Rubber Smallholders  : >  40000 smallholders
Rubber Registered Area          s >  30000 ha
Area Replanted & New Planted    : >  22500 ha
Yearly Budget                   : > M110 million
Category 2         Registered Rubber Smallholders  : >  15000 smallholders
Rubber Registered Area          : >  15000 ha
Area Replanted & New Planted    : >  11250 ha
Yearly Budget                   : > MS7.5 million
Category 3         Registered Rubber Smallholders  :    10000 - 15000
smallholders
Rubber Registered Area                10000 - 15000 ha
Area Replanted & New Planted    :      7500 - 11250 ha
Yearly Budget                   s     M5.0 million -
MS7.5 million
Category 4         Registered Rubber Smallholders  : <  10000 smallholders
Rubber Registered Area          t <  10000 ha
Area Replanted & New Planted    s <   7500 ha
Yearly Budget                   : < M15.0 million



- 114 -
ANNEX 15
TABLE 3
MALAYSiA
RISDA PROJECT
PROPOSED CATEGORIES OF RISDA STATE OFFICES
RISDA STATE OFFICE                           NORMS
Category 1                          Must have at least 1 Proposed
(Johor, Perak & Pahang)             District Category 1 or 3 Proposed
Districts Category 2.
Category 2                          Must have at least 1 Proposed
(Kelantan, Terengganu               District Category 2.
& Kedah)
Category 3                          Must have at least 2 Proposed
(Melaka, N. Sembilan &              Districts Category 3
Selangor).
Category 4                           Perlis & Pulau Pinang
(Perlis & Pulau Pinang)             (District Offices not available)



Annex 16
-115-                        Page 1 of 6
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Rationalization of RISDA's Activities
1.       RISDA's activities relating to mini-estates, marketing end
processing, cooperatives, Schemes 1956 and 1959 and some social services
should be considered prime candidates for divestiture to subsidiaries or other
agencies. The rationale for this is given below.
2.       Mini-Estates.  The mini-estate program was initiated in 1979 to
accelerate technological development in the rubber smallholder sector and to
put back into production the increasing number of small rubber farms left idle
by their owners for various reasons. The program promotes development through
group farming in which owners of contiguous holdings form estate entities
under long-term RISDA management. These mini-estates are expected to promote
the introduction or Rppropriate modern production technology (primarily for
rubber and, to some extent, .or oil palm) to the smallholder sector and
enhance the prospects of profitability through production and operational
economies of scale.
3.       As the development costs of the mini-estates often exceeded the
replanting grant entitlement. RISDA extended credit (M$ 127 million through
1987) to the smallholders to cover the incremental costs. Credits under this
scheme are repayable after the schemes are in production and are secured by
land title.
4.       Although no systematic evaluation of the mini-estate program has been
conducted so far, available information indicates that some mini-estates axe
viable while some others have very doubtful viability.  To this apparent lack
of uniform development is added the problem of widely varying levels of
smallholder participation and interests in the mini-estate program.
5.       Since the inception of the program in 1979 through 1988, RISDA had
developed 365 estates (287 rubber and 78 oil palm), of which 100 were in
production. By end 1990, the number of estates in production is expected to
grow to 291. This would be a very heavy production management responsibility
on RISDA. As RISDA has not prepared the smallholders to manage their assets,
it has de facto become a trustee. But so far RISDA has not worked out a plan
to manage mini-estates coming into production. The artangement for handling
mini-estates varies considerably. In some cases it is managed directly by the
staff and, in others, by contractors. Sometimes two contracts are issued, one
for production and the other for maintenance. In this case, the production
contractor may be inclined to harvest prematurely to maximize present earnings
rather than taking t'ie longer-term view of ensuring optimal production through
proper harvesting. Zdsides lack of planning in handling production, RISDA,
having transferred its own estate production to ESPEK, is institutionally not



Annex 16
- 116 -                     Page 2 of 6
geared to handling the commercial aspects of estate production. Moreover,
participation by smallholder owners in mini-estates (as laborers) varies
considerably and in cases where participation is significant, conflicts
between RUSDA supervisors, contractors and participant smallholders cannot be
ruled out.
6.       While the development phase of mini-estates since 1979 posed
relatively simple and manageable problems, the production phase, which is now
starting, will create increasingly complex problems (paras. 4 and 5) for
RISDA. RISDA, whose primary role has been and should be assistance to
smallholders for replanting and extension, will be increasingly distracted by
production management problems on mini-estates. It is difficult to see how
RISDA will manage to perform thiq complex dual role. It is, therefore,
proposed that these alternatives be considered:
(a) RISDA could create a new subsidiary to manage the entire mini-estate
program, that is, initiating the dialogue with the smallholders,
developing the mini-estates and managing the production. By
Implication, the subsidiary wrould have to receive grants to cover the
operating expenditures for development, as other smallholders receive
similar benefits. However, it raises the broad issue of whether a
subsidiary should: (i) duplicate RISDA's functions; and (ii) receive
operating subsidies.
(b)  RISDA could continue the develolment of mini-estates but transfer the
production functions to ESPEK. In this case, ESPEK would inherit the
economic, social and legal problems of mini-estates.  The management
of mini-estates would require modification in ESPEK's operating
procedures to deal with estate production, as at present, and in
addition, deal with smallholders. This will be a huge and difficult
responsibility for ESPEK considering that as many as 291 mini-estates
may be involved by 1990.  Besides, ESPEK, being commercially-
oriented, should not be saddled witb mini-estates which may not be
viable.
(c) All existing mini-estates and responsibility for future mini-estates
could be transferred to FELCRA, which specializes in the development
and management of similar schemes (group farms). FELCRA would also
inherit all the problems outlined in paras. 4 and 5, but has much
experience and expertise to handle it. This alternative would ensure
that the Federal Government's land consolidation and rehabilitation
strategy is implemented by a single Federal agency, FELCRA, which is
specialized in the task, and would aliow RISDA to concentrate on
assis*ing smallholders in individual, group and simultaneous
xeplantiag and providing extension.
7.       It is necessary to undertake an indepth study to analyze the pros and
cons of these alternatives.



Annex 16
- 117                            Page 3 of 6
8.       Marketing and ProcessinjL  This function was undertaken with the
objec Lve of providing price support to the smallholders with RISDA acting as
buyer of last resort. As MARDEC, a parastatal, was already involved in latex
purchase and processing, RISDA undertook the processing and marketJng of sheet
rubber which was processed in RISDA-operated smokehouses, developed with a
loan of M$ 13.2 million from the Government. Whenever purchasing exceeded
smokehouse capacity, RISDA leased additional smckehouses or subcontracted
production, at times in uneconomical units or at substantiallj high costs.
Furthermore, operating directly in competition with MARDEC, RISDA also
procured and processed iatex.
9.       The staffing was excessive.  To ensure proper buying, RISDA placed
special staff, even when the purchased quantities were inadequate, to inspect
the merchandise prior to purchase. As of end 1988, excluding the 13 traders
already transferred to NARSCO, 173 staff were involved in marketing.  The
operating funds required to cover emoluments, travel expenses, and other
related expenses increased from M$ 1.0 million in 1986 to M$ 3.0 million in
1987 while the total purchases increased by only 542 over the same period.
10.      Annual purchases increased from 2,000 tons in 1977 to a peak of
79,000 tons in 1987. Although there have been some fluctuations in the annual
volume purchased, total purchases by RISDA accounted for no more than 2 to 5Z
cf the total smallholder rubber production in peninsular Malaysia (except for
1987 when it was higher), implying that the purchase program had extremely
limited coverage.
11.      Though overhead expenses were not charged to marketing, the annual
operating losses were high, averdging about M$ 9.0 million over 1984-87. As a
result, the original revolving fund of M$ 65 million given to RISDA by the
Government for marketing operations had declined to about H$ 41 million by the
end of 1987 (and further to M$39 million by the end of 1988).  The operating
losses in marketing were mainly due to the following reasons:
(a) Selling was not hedged. RISDA purchased rubber at the prevailing
market prices and, after processing, sold at open market prices, and
no forward selling was involved. With this trading practice, there
were high profits in an up market and significant losses in a
declining market. There we.e wide swings in net income from RISDA's
marketing operations between 1982 mnd 1987.
(b) RISDA had a policy of passive purchasing. It purchased whatever was
offered at its purchase price without ensuring that its smokehouses
operated at full capacity.
(c) Since the smokehouses operated at below capacity, RISDA could never
offer a competitive price and, according to the privatization study
conducted by RISDA, its price was often about Sen 5 to 6/kg lower
than the prevailing market price. By reversing its buying policy and
ensuring 1002 capacity utilization of its smokehouses, RISDA could
have lowered the processing cost and the saving would have been
adequate to make the purchase price competitive and ensure full
capacity utilization.



Annex 16
- 118 -                        Page 4 of 6
(d) RISDA followed the expensive practice of appointing its own staff to
purchase rubber in contrast to MAURDEC, which purchases through buying
agents.
(e) Most of the marketing staff were recruited from otber Divisions and
had little experience in marketing.
12.      Concerned about the mounting losses and in accordance with the
privatization program of the Economic Planning Unit (EPU), RISDA took a series
of measures to streamline marketing functions with a view to eventually
privatizing them. As a first step, the Marketing Division was reorganized.
The second step was to close all the inefficient plants (ao of April 1989 all
but two were closed), scale down the purchasing to 25,000 m in 1988 and
gradually transfer the processing and purchasing function to NARSCO. The
latter agreed to perform the selling function on behalf of RISDA (for a
commissian of Sen 1/kg) but not processing or purchasing, an the grounds that
the price support function was financially beyond its capabilities. It
should, however, be emphasized that RISDA did not perform a price support
function. Like all other trading houses, it offered a price which fluctuated
with market conditions.
13.      Beginning 1989, rubber purchasing is being done by cooperatives with,
interest-free advances from RISDA. RISDA is operating two smokehouses at Sri
Gading and ( ling Galoh.  By the end of 1989, RISDA's Marketing Division would
be dissolved and NARSCO is expected to take over the rubber purchasing and,
possibly, the processing function. Projections made during project
preparation and appraisal indicate that by addressing the problems outlined in
para. 11 and by appointing the cooperatives and/or individuals as buying
agents, NARSCO can profitably operate the marketing and ,rocessing function.
However, for this NARSCO would need additional resources. Moreover, it would
need managerial itaff which could possibly be provided on secondment by
MARDEC. These financial and organizational arrangements need to be studied.
14.      Cooperatives.  With the approval of the Department of Cooperatives
(DOC), RISDA initiated 63 District Cooperatives, which, together with RISDA,
held shares in NARSCO, the apex body. The cooperatives were developed to:
(a) provide services (inputs and marketing) to smallholder members; and
(b) eventually take over the Group Processing Centers established by RISDA.
In view of the checkered history of the cooperative movement in Malaysia,
RISDA appointed its own staff, paid by it, to manage the cooperatives. The
activities of the field staff were coordinated by specially assigned District,
Regional, and State level cooperative staff who received policy guidance from
the Cooperative Unit of the Extension Division at tba Head Office. While
RISDA was primarily involved in developing the cooperitives, regulatory
authority remained with the DOC.
15.      The cooperatives have strong linkages with RISDA.  They receive a
commission from RISDA for input storage (Sen 0.90/50 kg bag).  In addition,
some cooperatives obtain RISDA contracts for planting material.  Recently,
cooperatives have also started purchasing rubber (para. 13).



Annex 16
- 119 -                         Page 5 of 6
16.      Since the inception of the cooperatives in 1980, their membership has
expanded considerably and was about 60,000 in 1988. However, the financial
performance of the cooperatives remains spotty. The 63 cooperatives together
showed a profit of M$ 0.4 million in 1982, losses in 1983 and 1984, a nominal
profit in 1985 and another small profit of M$ 0.4 million in 1986. Available
data indicate that 59 of the 63 cooperatives showed a profit in 1986.
However, if adjustments are made for the salaries of the managers who are paid
by RISDA, only 11 would remain financially viable. If the management capacity
of the Board is taken into account, it is doubtful if even one would have
survived without RISDA support. To improve the profitability of the
cooperatives, RISDA has, as a policy, started giving contracts to the
cooperatives (para. 15), which explains the resurgence of profits in 1986.
Since only some of the cooperatives have taken contracts from RISDA so far,
continuation of these policies would ensure that a considerable number of
cooperatives will show profits in the future. But not all cooperatives would
become viable since it appears that some Districts do not provide an
economicaliy viable basis for the operation of District-wide cooperatives.
For the unviable cooperatives, merger with the profitable ones may be the only
alternative to complete dissolution, even though mergers/consolidation are
difficult and time-consuming under the prevailing laws for cooperatives.
17.      RISDA's management has decided that, by the end of 1991, the seconded
staff should either be absorbed and paid by the cooperatives or return to
RISDA. In preparation for this eventuality, an additional 63 assistant
managers have been recruited on a contract basis to either work with or
replace the RISDA staff. Vhile this step would resolve the issue of payment
of staff salaries, RISDA intends to retain the responsibility for overseeing
cooperatives.
18.      The decision by RISDA's management to let the cooperatives pay their
managers from 1992 onwards is sound. However, in the transition phase, there
is a need to draw up plans to either close the non-viable cooperatives or
merge them with viable units to ensure the development of a sound cooperative
structure. Moreover, NARSCO, which is owned by the cooperatives but has
virtually no operational linkages with them, should begin to develop these
linkages as it takes over RISDA's marketing and, possibly, processing
functions. NARSCO should recruit some staff from RISDA to help it develop
these linkages. RISDA or the DOC should continue to oversee the cooperatives
to ensure their financial discipline. The above issues need to be studied in
depth.
19.      Schemes 1956 and 1959.  Excluding the Director, the Schemes operate
with a total staff of 81, who control and operate: (a) the 569 ha of rubber
nurseries at 11 separate locations that were acquired under Scheme 1956; and
(b) 2,300 ha of rubber and oil palm plantations in three estates (which also
produce 300,000 oil palm seedlings) that were developed under Scheme 1959.
20.      Being better endowed, Scheme 1959 has consistently operated
profitably. Between 1983 and 1987 its annual profits have varied between
MS 3.5 million and MS 3.9 million. It has accumulated substantial
undistributed profits.  In contrast, Scheme 1956 has faced financial
difficulties as development objectives were given priority over financial
stability. Since 1983, Scheme 1956 has shown a profit only in 1987 and 1988



Annex 16
- 120 -                      Page 6 of 6
and, as a consequence, it has been in debt to Scheme 1959. The principal
reasons for this financial performance have been the followings (a) stock
losses were encountered as production targets of planting materials were set
to meeting RISDA's re- .anting targets, which sometimes did not materialize.
As a result, Scheme &v56 continued to produce rubber seedlings while farmers'
priorities shifted to oil palm and cocoa to benefit from better prices for
those products; and (b) planting materials were sometimes priced below
production costs. The Scheme is now following the policy of producing about
70X of RISDA's requirements for planting materials and relying on private
nurseries for the rest. The pricing policy for planting materials takes into
account production costs. These steps are in the right direction.
21.      Besides the fact that the two Schemes were established under
different Acts, there is no particular reason for operating them separately.
In fact, operationally the two Schemes are managed as one but maintain
separat6 accounts to comply with their statutory requirements. The two
Schemes should be merged after completion of legal procedures currently
underway. Moreover, these Schemes, being profit centers, could operate as a
subsidiary which would make it possible for them to offer higher salaries,
improve employee morale and attain the necessary flexibility. These factors
would facilitate greater operating efficiency over time. This aspect needs to
be studied in detail.
22.      Projections made during project preparation to assess the viability
of the Schemes, if they were to be converted into a commercial subsidiary,
indicate that Scheme 1956 could be made profitable. Scheme 1959, despite a
heavy replanting program during the next five years, is expected to continue
operating profitably. Though approximately M$ 1.2 million of its profits come
from interest earnings on the M$ 25.0 million held in cash, the two Schemes
can operate profitably even excluding these non-operational profits.
23.      Social Programs.  RISDA has now suspended a number of social programs
undertaken in the past. However, RISDA still operates the Socio-Economic
Fund, which was established to grant loans to the smallholders for socio-
economic activities or for providing scholarships. The Fund has a total
contribution of M$ 0.9 million of which MS 0.7 million is undisbursed.  All
loans above M$ 1,000 are secured and, following commercial banking principles,
up to 60X of the value of the project and no more than 1002 of the value of
the collateral is financed from the Fund.
24.      RISDA's assumption is that, despite the unsatisfactory experience
with various credit schemes in the past, the Socio-Economic Fund will perform
better because most of the loans are secured. In this respect, however, RISDA
appears to be competing with the commercial banks rather than providing loans
against soft collateral as the name of the Fund would suggest. The argument
has been made that RISDA's loan processing is speedier and more convenient for
the smallholders. However, this is debatable. This activity should be
discontinued since firstly, it compromis-s the role of the field extension
staff (who forward credit applications under the Fund) and, secondly, for an
insignificant amount, it diverts management's efforts from RISDA's more
important activities.



-121-
AINX 17
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Supervision Plan: Bank Suservlson Mission Schedule
Approximate
Project            dleasin                                                   Expected                    Staff Inputs
Yenr              cat"               Areas of Cone ntration               Skill Requlreents             (stff-weekx)
1 (199i)      Jon/Feb          Loan effectivenexs; recruitment and       Ecoomics/Financlul Analyais           5.0
tO             appointement of consultant, for           Training
studles and local training; revlw        Agriculture
of arrangements for 1990                  Organization and Management
agricultural program; review of
arranqgemnts for local staff and
emal holder training; progress in
bhadoff ice and flld-lovol
reorganization and rationalization
Of RISGA'. activities; accounting
and auditing; disbursement
procedures.
1 (1990)      May/June        Review of projoct studieos; progress       EconemIce                             3.0
1990          In computerized mnagemnt                   Agriculture
Information system (MIS); revie  of       MIS
work program and budget for 1991;
procuremnt arrangements;
monitoring and evaluation (MAE)
arrangements.
1 (1990)      Nove_mr/        Progres  In RISDA's reorganization         Economics/Financial Analysis          4.0
Deceber         and rationalization of activitie;         Orgenizttlon and Management
1o0            accounting and auditing;                  Rural Engineering
construction and maintenance of           Training
aricultural access rcad*;
procureent progress; progress In
staff and aalholder training.
2 (1991)      April/May        Retrospective review of 1990              Economics                             3.0
1991          agricultural program; work program        Agriculture
and budget for 1992; progress in          MIS
uomputsrizod MIS and MAE;
lmprovemnts In extension services.
2 (1991)      Sptemer/         Progre  in RISDA's reorganlzation         Economics/Financial Analysis          2.6
October         and rationalization of activitieo;        Training
1991          accounting and auditing; progres
In staff and ama Iholdar training.
3 (1992)      AprilI/My       Retrospective review of 1991               Econoics                              2.5
1992          agricultural program; progress In         Agriculture
ecouterized MIS and MAE.                  MIS
3 (1992)      September/       Progroes In RISDA's reorgenization        Eenomie                               3.0
October         and rationalization of activitle;        Agriculture
1992          accounting and auditing; progres          Training
of 1992 agricultura I progr;  aff
and maIlholder train9ng.
(1998)      May/June        Project Completion Report                  Economics/Financial Analysis          4.0
1993  .                                                 Agriculture
MIS



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
CROP YIELD PROFILES
Rubber (Kg dry rusbbr/ha)
___________________________________-_____Oil Pale                              Extraction
With Project                         (Ton ffb/ha)                     rate (X)
YEARS             WITHOt              ------------
PROJECT       INDIVIWAL          GROUP    MINI-ESTATE     INDIVIDUAL    MINI-ESTATE          OIL         KERNEL
1. (Up to planting)    S0              -               -
2.                     SOO             -               -            -          -               -                 _
S.                     450             -               -            -          -               -                 -
4.                     450             -               -                       -               - _
S.                     400             -               -            -          2               S                12            4
6.                     400             -               -            -          6               8                14            4
7.                     350             -               -          250         10              12               10             4
8.                     350             -*            SOO          600         12              1S                18          4.5
9.                     300           SOO             900          9S0         14              17                19          4. 6      
10.                    300           600            1000         1100         16              19               20             5
11.                    -            1000            1100         1200         18              20               20             S
12.                    -            1100            1200         1250         18              20               20             S
13.                    -            1800            1400         1450         18              20               20             5
14.                    -            1400            1650         1700         17              20               20             5
15.                    -            1500            16S0         1700         17              19               20             S
16.                    -            1400            1600         1860         16              19               20             5
17.                    -            1200            16oo         lf650        1               19               20             6
18.                    -            1600            1700         1750         1S              18               20             5
19.                    -            1300           lo0          1660         15              16               20             6
20.                    -            1100            1600         1600         14              17               20             5
21.                    -            1000            1400         1500         14              17               20             5
22.                    -             900            1300         1400         12              16               20             6
23.                    -             800            1800         1600         12              16               20             5
24.                    -            1000            1200         1400         11              15               20             5
25.                    -             900            1100         1300         11              15               20             5
26.                    -             800            1000         1200         10              15               20             5
27.                    -             700             900         1100         10              14               20             5
28.                    -             700             900         1000         10              14               20             5
29.                    -             600             600          900         10              13               20             5
30.                    -            1000            1100         1200          -               -                -             -
31.                    -             800             900          900          -               -                -
82.                    -             60              700          700          -               -
Total Yield (tons)                  23.9            30.0         32.6        324             401                -             -
Y"r. of Production                    24              25           28         26              26
Mean Annual Yield/ha             1000 kg         1200 kg      1300 kg    13 ton           16 ton
* Possibly a small amount of production                                                                                                  c



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
RUBBER ECONOIIIC FARMOATE PRICES
1990     1991     1992     1998     1994     1995     1996     1997     1999     1999     2000
RSSI Spot NY US1/ton  1/                    1046     1097     1151     1207     1267     1826     1810      1294     1279     1263     1249
Loss: Freight and Insurance                 150      150      150      15O      15O      150      15O      150      150       1SO      15O
FOB Malaysian Port USt/ton                   896      947     1001     1067     1117     1176     1160     1144      1129     1118     1099
Exohang Rat.                               2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7
FOB Malaysian Port MS/ton                   2419    2557      2708     2854     8016     3176     8132     8089       0U      3005     2967
Loso  Reserch Ces                            40       40       40       40       40       40       40       40       40        40
Marketing, proessing,
etc.                                  120      120      120      120      120      120      120      120      120      120       120
Fam-gate Price for RSSI                     2269    2397      2643     2694    2856      8015     2972     2929      2888     2845     2807
Weighted Form-gate Price  2/                1920    2087      2162     2290     2428     2508     2626     2490     2456    2418       2866
1/ I=  June 1989 price projections adjusted to constant 1988 dollars using IIN Indexes.
2/ Weighted price estimted at 85X o RSSI price.
I1
'0



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
OIL PALM ECONOMIC FARMOATE PRICES
1990     1991     1992     1993     1994     1996      1996     1997     1999     1999     2000
Palm Oil in US1/ton 1/
CIF NW Europe Price                      886     398       410      422      434      447      439       432      426      417      411
Ocen Freight and Insurance               45       45        46       46       45       46       46        46       46       46       46
FOS price, Port Klang                   341      363       865      877      a89      402      894       887      880      372      8a6
Palm Oil in MS/ton
Exchange Rate                           2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7
Port chrges and tranport                 40       40        40       40       40       40       40        40       40       40       40
Ex-mill price                           881      913       948      978     1010     104S      1024     1006      980      904      948
Palm Kernels In US2/ton 1/
CIF NW Europe Price                     278      278       280      281      283      28S      277       270      288      266      249
Ocean Freight and Insuronco              46       46        45       46       46       45       45        45       46       45       46
FOB pri:o, Port Klnng                   231      23U       238      238      238      240      232       295      218      210      204
Palm Kornels in MS/ton
Exchange Rate                           2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7
Port charge and transport                36       35        35       35       as       35       36        35       85       a5       a5
Ex-mill price                           589      694       60       602      6S08     613      591       573     564       582      161
FF8 In MS/ton
20X oil + 5X Kernels                    206      213       219      226      282      240      238       230      226      220      216
Processing cost                          3o       30        80       80       30       80       80        80       80       30       so
Mill Purchbse price                     176      183       189      196      202      210      20S       200      19S      19e      186
Transport to mill                        1S        15       15       15       15       15        15       15       15       1'       15
FF8 fargate price                       160      168       174      181      187      19S      190       18S      180      175      171
1/  IBRD June 1989 price projectlons adjusted to constant 1988 dolloar using UUV indexes.



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS (MS MILLION)
1990    1991     1992     1993    1994    1995       1990     1997     19       1999    2000    2001    2002
ewnefIts /1
Rubber                            -        -        -        -        -        -         0.9    18.7    57.8   103.9   140.1   160.2   101.7
Oil Palm /2                       -        -        -        -         6.1    26.9      61.9    74.1    91.9    104.0    113.6    121.1   124.4
Subtotal                        -        -        -        -         6.1    26.9    62.6    92.S   149.2   207.9   263.6   261.8    800.1
Coot /1
On-Form Co sa of Rubber /3          40.1    62.8      7.2    87.0    30.7    28.6         28.8    22.4    80.0    46.6    e6.2    65.6    69.4
On-Frm Costs of Oil Palm /2 /a      27.9    86.6      44.?     21.7    22.1    z4.2       26.9    81.2    38.9    65.7        86.7    86.8    86.4
Infrastructure                       2.6      2.6      2.6      0.5      0.5      0.6      0.6      0.5      0.6      0.5      0.6      0.5      0.6
Vehicles                             2.2      1.9      1.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
Subtotal                        79.8   103.a   125.9    59.7    53.8    68.7    61.2    54.6    70.9    65.6   102.9   103.6   106.6
Income Foregone from Old
Rubber /4                      (20.4)   (8.0)     15.9    S8.5    67.6    60.6    50.1    46.2    86.9    80.6    17.7              9.2    -
Net Benf It                       (58.9)  (100.8)  (141.6)  (116.2)  (108.8)   (88.8)   (48.6)   (8.0)      42.4    91.6   188.0   168.5   199.8
Economie Rats of Return = 14X
/1 Only replantings from 1990 onwards are included.
/2  Includes 17 other crops, whos beneita and costs were too *ml a and were, therefore, as umed to be
equivalent to those of oil polo.
/a includes supplementary costa of mini-estates.
/4 Adjusted for sale of rubber wood In the first year and production costs In all yeru that would
have been Incurred.
00
w



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS (MI MILUCN)
2003    m4    200C    2006    2007    2006    2009    2010    2011    2012    2018    20U4    201
B.fits /1
Rubber                        206.6   220.0   23as6   234.2   236.1   258.4   230.0   211.6   196.1   13.7   176.5   169.9   160.1
Oil Palm /2                   123.5   121.5   116.3   116.1   118.0   110.9   106.5   104.4    99.1    96.0    00.?    6.5   s6.a
Subtotal                    330.1   350.5   356.8   350.3   U3.1   344.3   336.5   316.2   204.2   279.7   267.2   261.4   246.4
Costs /1
On-Form Costa of Rubber /3       66.1    61.5    56.4    54.6    60.3    66.2    71.5    69.3    66.3    62.2   56.9    50.3    49.5
On-Form Costa of 01I P lm /2 /S    35.6    3.2    34.2   a3.7    82.3    32.4    31.4    30.6    29.6    29.0    26.2    23.9    13.o
Infrastructure                    0.5     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5
Vehicles                          0.5     0.6      0.5     0.5     0.6      0.5     0.6     0.5      0.5     0.6     0.5      0.5     0.6
Subtotal                    102.9    97.7    90.0    69.2    94.1    96.6   106.9   101.1        W.1    92.2    64.1    75.2    69.1
Tncoe Foregone from Old
Rubber /4                    _        _       _       _        _       _       _        _       _        _       _       _        _
Not Beeit                       227.2   252.6   266.2   261.1   254.0   245.7   232.6   215.1   195.1   137.5   163.1   16.2   176.3
/1 Only replntinga from 1990 onwards are Included.
/2 Includel  17 other crops, whos bnetits and cos  were too mal  and were, therefore, assumd to be
quivalent to those of oil palo.
/3  Include supplementary costs of mini-estates.
/4 AdJuse for solo of rubber wood In the first yer and production cost In *Il yers tht would
have been Incurred.
100
O o



MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS (MI MILLION)
2016    2017    2016    2019    2020    2021
Sntlea /1
Rubber                        144.9   184.2   128.6   188.9   1$5.0   138.4
Ol1 Pa1l /2                    83.3    81.0    76.6    58.5    26.7    -
Subtotal                    228.2   216.2   202.2   187.4   161.7   158.4
Coso /I
On-Faor Coa  of Rubber /8        47.7    46.7    44.9    44.1    48.1    42.6
On-Frm Coat of Oil Palm /2 /3    15.3    31.7    11.2      7.4     8.6    -
Intrastructure                    0.5     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5
Vehicles                          0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5      0.5
Subtotal                     64.0    69.4    57.1    52.5    47.7    48.5
Income Foreone from Old
Rubber /4                    -        -       -       -        -       -
Neb BSn.tit                     164.2   156.8   145.1   184.9   114.0    69.9
WIo 
w



- 128 -
ANNEX 21
MALAYSIA
RISDA PROJECT
Supporting Documents Available in Proiect File
1.       Project Proposal from RISDA (August 1987) submitted to the Bank
(January 15, 1988).
2.       Proposed RISDA I Project, 1989 - 1991 (Additional Data for World
Bank PreparatLon Mission), RISDA, April 1988.
- Vol. 2: Staffing (RISDA's Establishment as at February 29,
1988).
3.       Request for Additional PDE Equipment within the Framework of
RISDA's Computerization Program, RISDA, May 25, 1988.
4.       Briefing Notes for World Bank Preparation Mission, Inspectorate
and Internal Audit Division, RISDA, June 13, 1988.
5.       DLvision of Training and Community Development - In Brief, RISDA,
June 20, 1)88.
6.       Jane 1988 Preparation Mission Papers:
- Working Paper No. 1: Review of RISDA's Organization and
Management
- Working Paper No. 2; Management Information and Accounting
Systems
- Working Paper No. 3: Financial Evaluation of RISDA Subsidiaries
7.       R:view of RISDA's Organization and Management (Draft Report of the
June 1988 ?reparation Mission sent to the Government on September 20,
1988).
8.       Proposed RISDA I Project, 1989 - 1991 (Extension and Training
Proposals), RISDA, March 17, 1989.
9.       Appraisal Mission Papers:
- Working Paper No. 1: Proposed Reorganization of RISDA
- Working Paper No. 2: Mini-Estates
10.      Project Cost, Farm Budget and Financial and Economic Analysis
Tables.



MAP SECTION



_IRD 21617R
EP' \' THPENSOULAS MAALAYSIA
'~    TC GENTNGi                          RISDA  PRCOJECT-
© RGOA Staft OM"ce 6
A                                                                0 JKDA Trek" 0n pAtte
!&                                 A                                  A  S\,o  VW ND^ ursor
BUKIT                                                           A I     1GADING  16 Nwaa8hI
PERAK                         GALOH                 \chw                   6 I4 Estte
Goor l g     r                 n               e_ReoG    \ A              ESPEK -M.d
BUKIT SIREH       ErRiGg                    - awE
frP.~,A2                                            GERDONG                1   o  1M
PERA K          IELANATAA            0 
X    ° [~ENGAS     f                        ;X'i'X('''V/ 
GUNUNG                                                       Sa  onal
X      TUNGGAL                                                    WrAw Owula 
,o      piah                                    ,T/TENA 
I     BK KOTA                         ' E8ING      TE       \
4       5                 ~~~~~~~ATINGGI           2
40LLUSI
1a\     §GKA       ULU CHEKA                                               405
CHANGKAT                                           *40)*°
AIMAN{& A                                      @&          S    u U  /7
o____________                 SERIGLA         aP A H    IVA ' G    Kuanwta
C h in a
d  20  4o  So  8s t1O    \SELANGOR
KLO&UT                   KUALA                                                   e
\SLUM  m          L.A KADIR   KG AWAH
WISMA     .                     KG WA
RISD              0 i       O BERA
&84M  h   | BK KE.AMAK EA
IE C, E       0       ULU KERATO
:=P=~~~ww ses r                              9AMBAT >
AY E ~ LISG            A
PA A'I          cHALESO  KG SEKIJANG   ULU nEDILI
tg1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~'YABlN' j HALES ..                                         U b' -'DILI7
VIE
{t,~~               P1'  /Pt)  o                        \ o    \
'-NI>A  L ASa 8 1 A   .tu P \                            aI  SERI GAD!NG
I>M\L A Y 6  A
Johor Ballu 
INDONESIA
.O1 N 0 "0   9 6 I A                    O         |matl a     0OVEBE 1 99
NOVE4" 1999



