Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9331
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1308-YAR)
JANUARY 28, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$ 1 - YRs
1983        4.58
1984        5.35
1985        7.36
1986        9.64
1987       10.34
1988        9.77
1989        9.76
1990       11.75
Abbreviations and Aggonvms Used
ACB         - Agricultural Credit Bank
CACB        - Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
ERR         - Economic Rate of Return,
FRR         - Financial Rate of Return
NCDB        - National Cooperative and Development Bank
IDA         - International Development Association
PCR         - Project Completion Report
ROY         - Republic of Yemen         .
RVP         - Regional Vice President
SSHARDA     - Sana'a Saadah Hajjah Agricultural and Rural
Development Authority
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
1 millimeter (mm)       -     0.039 inches
1 meter (m)             -     3.28 feet
1 square meter (e2)     -     10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)        -     0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)          -     10,000 square meters (2.47 acres)
1 metric ton (ton)      -     2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)             -     0.264 gallon



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wash,gaion, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olk. eW OoinctqvGwal#u
January 28, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTS Project Completion Report - Republic of Yemen
Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 1308-YAR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Republic of Yemen - Agricultural Credit
Project (Credit 1308-YAR)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizati



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1308-YAR)
Table of Contents
Paae Noc.
PREFACE       .................. .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
EVALUAAIONSUMMARY   ..................... .                       .
PART I.     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
B. Background . . . .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
C. Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . 2
D. Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . 2
E. Project Implementation . * . . . . . . . . . . . 3
- Loan Effectivenese and Implementation Schedule . 3
- Institution Building/Technical Assistance  . . . 3
- On-lending Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
- Project Costs and Disbursements  . . . . . . . . 4
- Procurement  .....     . . . .5
- Compliance with Covenants  .  . . . . . .  . .  . 5
F. Project Results  .    ... .........     ..  5
G. Project Sustainability . .  ..  .       ..             8
H. Consulting Services  . . . . . .           .  .  . . . .  9
I. Project Documentation and Data ....          .      10
J. IDA Performance        .       . ....... . 11
K. Borrower Performance . . . . . .      0 . . . . . . 11
L. IDA-Borrower Relationship  . . . . . . . . . .   . 11
M. Lessons Learned   .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  . 11
PART  II.   BORROWER'S COMPLETION REPORT  . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
PART III.   SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA  .                       . . . 15
TABLES
Table No.                      Title
l       Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . . . . . 15
2   Project Timetable   .                  .16
3       Key Performance Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
4(a) Project Costs   8..
4(b)  Project Financing   ..18
5       Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
6       Compliance with Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
7       Loans Issued and Outstanding, 1982-1988 . .21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclom,d without World Bank authorization.



Table.of Contents (Continued)
8       CACB Loans issued by term and purpose, 1982-87  .  . 22
9      Recovery of Due Loans by Term, Purpose and Year . . . 23
10(a)    Target Achievements . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 24
10(b)    Studies Completed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a . . 25
11(a)    Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
11(b)   Missions  . . . . . . .      a .  .  .  .  .   a .  .  .  .  .  .    27
12      CACB:  Balance Sheets, 1984-1988  . . . . . . . . . . 28
MAP IBRT) 22775



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RETUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1308-YAR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Credit Project in ROY, for which Credit 1308 - YAR in the amount of SDR 7.5
million (US$ 8.0 million at appraisal) was approved on December 12, 1982. The
Credit was closed on December 31, 1989, two and one half years behind schedule.
SDR 6,552,697.42 was disbursed, and the last disbursement was made on May 9,
1990. The balance, totaling SDR 947,302.58, was cancelled effective April 30,
1990.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) has been
prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division (EM3AG) of the Europe, Hiddle
East, and North Africa Region. The Borrower was requested to prepare a PCR (Part
II), but this has not been done.
Preparation of this PCR started during IDA's final supervision
mission of the project in October 1989, and is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement between the Borrower and the implementing agency (Cooperative
and Agricultural Credit Bank), supervision reports, progress reports provided
by CACB, correspondence between IDA and CACB, and internal IDA memoranda.



- iii-
PROJECT COMPLETION FEPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1308-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the project were:
(a) Institution building through: (i) training CACB staff, mainly
in credit, comp-:.er operations, and financial controls;(ii) strengthening CACB's
organizational structure and operational procedures through technical assistance
and the establishment of a management information system; and (iii) construction
of a branch office in Saadah and six extension centers in Saadah and Hajjah
governorates; (b) carrying out of an agricultural credit survey to formulate a
lending strategy and establish priorities; and (c) on-lending to farmers, mainly
for on-farm investments.
IMPLEMENTATIQN EXPERIENCE
The project suffered from a very slow start.  The   four year
implementation period was ultimately extended :hree times for a total of two and
a half years. The project was closed with parts of some components uncompleted
(construction of Saadah branch, installation of computer equipment in branches,
and under utilization of technical assistance).
The main implementation problems were the lack of strong commitment
to the goal of institution building through technical assistance, the lack of
adequate autonomy for the main financial institution, and failure to comply with
some legal covenants, particularly review of interest rates leading to adjustment
(lending rates were reviewed but Government was opposed to adjustment), and
divestment of trading activities. The project objective of improving CACB's
institutional performance was achieved to a very limited extent only, and the
project did not have any significant impact on the financial performance of CACB.
Funds allocated for on-lending operations were fully utilized; the
main activities financed were irrigation equipment and tractors, and to a limited
extent working capital. CACB had very high loan administration costs (about 13%),
low and unsustainable loan repayment rates of about 40% (less than 5% in the
Eastern Region where lending was motivated by social and political considerations
in a tribal area undergoing transformation from tribal society to federal
government), and failed to insulate it's lending activities from outside
influences. CACB succeeded in generating limited deposits only.
Some initiatives were taken by CACB to improve lending procedures,
establish links with extension, strengthen internal audit procedures, evaluate
branch performance, and formulate loan collection plans and targets. However,
these efforts had limited success. The main achievement of the project is the



- iv -
installation of the management information system which is largely in place and
operational at headquarters and the Sana'a branch; while completion of
installation at branches is expected in 1990. The agricultural credit survey
was finally carried out just before the closing date; although th. findings and
recommondations could not be made use of in the project, it is hoped that these
would be used by CACB to formulate a future strategy for lending and deposit
creution.
Some components, namely, the management information system, limited
acquired training skills, the extension centers and branch office would be useful
beyond the project life. Also, benefits from on-lending operations would accrue
over the economic life of the projects financed. However, the current rates of
ground-water abstraction of the main aquifers, particularly in the Central
Highlands, are not sustainable.
The project had a limited impact on the financial position of C&CB
due to very high loan administration costs, very low and falling loan repayment
rates, and low lending rates; if left unchecked, these factors would endanger
the viability of CACB as a financial institution. Also, the long term iipact of
technical assistance and the very limited institutional reform that has taken
place, are not assured.
LESSQNS LEARNED
The key lessons of the project were the following:
(a) IDA should more clearly distinguish between the need for
institutional reform, and the financial institution's commitment to such reform.
Where commitment is lacking,  the project should not be undertaken or be
discontinued at an early stage.
(b) Where the rural financial sector is still rudimentary and new
institutions are being set up, the credit project should be preceded by a
technical assistance program, possibly grant financed by a donor agency.
(c) Another lesson is the difficulty of tackling sectoral or national
policy issues, such as negative real interest rates, at the project level; these
issues should be incorporated in sector or macroeconomic dialogue, and should
be reflected in IDA's overall lending strategy.   Therefore,  future credit
operations should not be viewed in isolation, but rather within the wider context
of the financial sector and macroeconomic setting.
(d) The four-year project implementation period was short in view
of the institution-building nature of the project and the stage of development
of the implementing financial institution. Similar future projects should e*l-ow
for realistic implementation periods.



(e) Project design of financial intermediation loans in the
agricultural sector should assess the downstream impact of on-lending activities
on ground water use and aquifer depletion where water is a scarce resource, and
regulatory mechanisms do not exist. If conditions warrant, well drilling and
equipment should be excluded from on-lending activities.



PROJECT COMPLETIgN REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL CRV.T PROJECT
(CREDIT 1308-YAR)
PART I: PRQJECT REVIEW F3sO BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:           Agricultural Credit Project
Credit Number:           1308-YAR
RVP Unit:                EMENA Region
Country:                 Republic of Yemen
Sector:                 Agriculture
Subsect-r:              Agricultural Credit
B.    Background
1.          Due to limited water resources, a labor shortage resulting from
migration to neighboring countries, and the shortage of foreign exchange to
enable the import of fertilizer and other inputs, substantial food imports have
recently become necessary because domestic food production has been insufficient
to meet the demands of a growing and more affluent population. The gap was
covered by food imports, which increased from US$ 80 million in 1974 to US$ 370
million in 1987. The ov-'rall objective if ROY's development plans, including
the current Third Five-Year Plan (1987-91), has been to promote self-sufficiency
in food production.
2.          IDA's strategy for the agricultural sector has been to help raise
agricultural productivity and improve farmers' incomes through projects which
develop agricultural services (extension, research, irrigation, credit) and
infrastructure in those areas of the country with the highest production
potential.   More recently,  emphasis has shifted to the consolidation of
institutions at the national level (extension, research, and planning) and
natural resource management. IDA projects account for a large segment of total
public sector investment, and IDA involvement has attracted substantial
cofinancing resources.
3.          In 1982,  the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) and the National
Cooperative and Development Bank (NCDB) were merged into the Cooperative and
Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB). The Agricultural Credit Project was initiated
at that time to support the institutional development of the new agricultural
credit institution and assist in increasing agricultural production and farm
income. Because most area development projects included an agricultural credit
component, it was only logical that the only channel of agricultural credit in
the country (CACB) be strengthened. This was the main reason IDA initiated the
project.



-2-
C.   PtroectObj.ectJves and Desirintion
4.          The principal purpose of the project was to strengthen CACB as an
institution and help develkp its capabilities over a period of four years. The
components of the project were as follows:
(a)   InatiLation-Buildine.  This included provisicns for (i) training of
CACB staff, (ii) stringthening of CACB's organizational structure
and operational procedures, and (iii) establishing a Management
Information S'stem by employing consultants to design, implement and
start  up  a computer  network.    Six  internationally  qualified
consultants were to be recruited for periods of two to three years
each (a total of 15 man-years) to ensure the proper iuplementation
of these studies. Provisions for establishing a CACB branch office
in Saadah and six agricultural extension centers of the Ministry of
Agriculture in Saadah and Hajjah Governorates were included in the
project.
(b)   Agricultural Credit Survey.   Thls survey was to enable CACB to
formulate a lending strategy and establish priorities for its branch
expansion based on an assessment of the agricultural credit needs
of different areas.
(c)   gredit.  Funds were to be provided to assist CACB in financing its
lending program.
5.          Funds for on-lending were the largest cost item (US$ 6.0 million)
amounting to almost half of ;otal project cost (US$ 12.7 million); and
institution building of CACB constituted the second largest cost item amountlng
to US$ 4.1 million, or over one-third of total project cost.
D.    Project Desian and Organization
6.          Institutional strengthening was the key objective of the project,
to solve problems croated by the merger of two financial institutions which
formed CACB and to meet the rapidly growing demand for agricultural credit.
CACB was responsible for the implementation of the project, with the exceptlon
of the agricultural extension centers under the Ministry of Agrieulture.
Unfortunately, the project suffered from some important weaknesses. One of the
main objectives  of the project,  namely,  making CACB's  credit operations
financially viable, was not fully supported by Government in practlce. Also CACB
was reluctant to emplcy foreign consultants.  This reflected bad experlences
with previous consultants, and a general feeling that no major changes were
necessary in the w-y CACB operated. CACB staff, after the merger of the two
institutions, had not integrated well and feared job losses and loss of influence
if organizational changes were implemented. Another weakness in the organizatlon
of the technical assistance component of the project was that no one among 0-t
individual consultants was responsible for coordination of group actlvities



-3-
7           CACB's past financial performance revealed that losses on credit
ope4ations were  .vmpensated by profits  on  CACB's  credit-related  trading
operations. These trading operations were an integral part of CACB's operations,
and involved importation of fertilizers, tractors, irrigation pumps, etc. The
importance of trading activities to CACB's financial position and the reluctance
to divest trading activities, in light of a high wage bill and inadequate
Interest rate spreads, was underestimated in project design.
8.          The shortage of qualified personnel at all levels in ACB was
recognized as a major constraint, and this constraint became more acute after
the establishment of CACB.  Project design attempted to address this issue
through the appointment of advisers and staff training. The organization study
was aimed at assessing the need for organizational changes following the merger
of the two institutions.   While there was a need to improve operational
procedures, the case for reorganization particularly adding an additional layer
of management at the regional level where CACB had redundant staff, was weak.
9.          Project preparation and appraisal were largely conducted before the
merger of the institutions, when top officials of the former Agricultural Credit
Bank were still in charge of the institution. In retrospect, it would have been
more prudent to initiate a technical assistance program, possibly with bilateral
grant financing, to precede the credit project, particularly when it became
apparent that the institution was to merge with the National Cooperative
Development Bank which lacked sound banking experience.
10.         The project implementation period of four vears and six months
envisaged by the SAR was short, in view of the fact that ;he main objective of
the project was institutior building, and taking into consideration likel, delays
in effectiveness based on past experience in ROY.
11.         Considering  the  growing  investments  of  farmers  in  irrigation             K
facilities and declining water tables in ROY, project design should have foreseen
the impact of on-lending for irrigation development and ground water use, which,
in the absence of regulations in ROY, led to high rates oi abstraction and the
depletion of aquifers, particularly in the Central Highlands.
E.    rro2ect Implementatiogn
12.         Loan effectiveness and implementation schedule.  The Credit was
signed in March 1983 and became effective in January 1984 (Table 2). Conditions
of effectiveness required the: (i) signing of a subsidiary financing agreement
between the Government and CACB; and (ii) ratification of the Credit by ROY
authorities.  The project suffered from a very slow start due to delays in
ratification, recruitment and procurement. Ultimately the project closing date
.as extended three times and implementation covered a period of nearly 3iX years;
it was closed on December 31, 1989 with some components remaiaivg somewhat
uncompleted (CACB's Saadah branch, installation of some computer equipment, and
underutilization of technical assistaxice). The key implementation problem of the
project was the lack of strong commitment needed for the effective utilization
of technical assistance to address institutional problems.



- 4 -
13.         Institution Building/Technical Assistance.  The project as designed
provided for technical assistance as a major input to the institutional
strengthening of CACB. Three independent studies were planned to be carried out
through short-term consultanctes, namely an organization and procedures study,
a mechanized accounting system, and a training program.  Six internationally
recruited consultants were to be employed by CACB for periods of two to three
years each to ensure proper implementation of the recommendations of these
studies: credit adviser; financial controlle.; management adviser; planning and
research adviser; training adviser; and a livestock/poultry specialist. However,
some consultants were not recruited and others served for shorter periods:
available technical assistance resources were not utilized In an effective and
efficient way,  due  to considerable  delays  in recruitment.    Furthermore,
consultants were used more for day-to-day activities than to train local
counterparts.
(a)   Of 180 man/months of consultancy, only 78.5 man/months, or 44X were
actually used.   A Management Adviser  (24 man/months)  and the
Livestock/Poultry Specialist (24 man/months) were not recruited at
all.
(b)   During the first three years of the project, only one resident
consultant  (Planning  and Research  Adviser)  was  engaged.    An
agricultural credit survey was supposed to be conducted in 1984 at
the inception of the project during this consultant's tenure but
was not carried out at that time. Another consultant was hired to
carry out the credit survey which was completed within the last six
months of the project.
(c)   The report with recommendations concerning GACB's organization by
a team of management consultants was submitted in May 1984, but CACB
waited until 1988 to reach a decision as to whether or not to
implement its recommendations which would require a restructuring
of the organization. By that time, the recommendations were already
outdated.   CACB did not implement the report's recommendations,
taking the position that the existing organizational structure was
satisfactory and met the objectives of CACB.   IDA's supervision
missions also observed that the problems of over-staffing and the
need to raise collection rates, reduce loan administration costs,
and improve internal controls were more urgent than organizational
chtxnge.
(d)   Installation of the computer system Ln the branches was near
completion at the credit closing date, while available technical
assistance to start up computer operations was not fully utilized
by CACB.   Furthermore, the position of Financial Controller (36
man/months) was split into tvo positions: Financial Adviser and
Computer Expert. The Financial Adviser worked only for two weeks
while the Computer Expert worked for three months over an 18-month
period.
14.         On-lending component.  CACB succeeded in fully utilizing the project



funds allocated to support its credit operations. The total disbursed from the
credit proceeds reached US$ 4.1 million. Loan funds provided by the project were
designed to meet about 51 of CACB's projected loan disbursements for medium and
short term loans and working capital (farm inputs); these funds, however, were
not linked to financing specific projects and, hence, indistinguishable from
CACB's regular disbursements. On the whole, annual loans issued by CACB nominally
expanded during the initial two years after credit effectiveness by 101 annually,
but contracted thereafter. Loans funds became available at a time when CACB
lacked adequate foreign exchange to meet its disbursement targets, and had a
favorable impact;
15.         Project costs and disbursements.  Total project costs were estimated
at US$ 12.7 million, of which IDA was to contribute lJS$ 8.0 million (SDR 7.5
million) or 631, and the ROY Government US$ 4.7 million, or 371. Actual costs
incurred were estimated to be about US$ 13.3 million. Disbursements against IDA
credit proceeds amounted to SDR 6.55 million (US$7.86 million) or 87.41 of credit
amount. The amount of SDR 0.947 million was cancelled. (Tables 4 (a & b] & 5).
16.         Procurement.  Procurement procedures for goods and services were
generally followed, although government processes were lengthy.
17.         Compliance with Covenants.  CACB did not comply with some legal
covenants (see Table 6). The covenant to separate commercial operations of CACB
from eredit functions was not seriously considered since it was a profit center
for CACB. In spite of discussions during supervision, the trading operations
of CACB expanded, but had to be scaled down due to the lack of foreign exchange,
and increased again towards the end of the project period as foreign sources of
financing became available to purchase tractors on a deferred payment basis.
The covenant to carry out periodic reviews of interest rates applicable to CACB's
lending operations at intervals not exceeding two years was initiated but soon
became irrelevant. The Government was not inclined to discuss interest rate
policies under the project. During macroeconomic dialogue, the Government did
not agree to adjust the interest rate structure, despite a considerable worsening
of inflation during the period under review (15-20X annually).   Government
justified the use of  low interest rates (101 in most areas, and 71 in the
Eastern Region) as a vehicle for the introduction of modern technology,
particularly irrigation equipment, farm machinery, and inputs.   This policy
decision was, however, detrimental to CACB's financial position.
F.    Project Results
18.         Physical targets envisaged at appraisal, namely, the establishment
of an additional branch of the CACB, six MAF extension centers, installation of
computer facilities at headquarters and main branches, and disbursement of US$4.1
million for on-lending were largely attained. However, financial performance
and operational reforms to strengthen CACB as a financial institution were not
encouraging. It should be mentioned, however, that some initiatives were taken
by CACB to improve the procedures for loan processing, establish linkages with
extension, strengthen internal audit, and evaluate the performance of branches.
Unfortunately, and for personal reasons, the tenure of the Credit Adviser who



- 6 -
spearheaded most of these activities covered only 27 montns out of the 36 months
appropriated. As a result, many recommendations were not properly followed-
up.  With regard to CACB staff training, only about 30X of 20 course weeks
provided for in the project for various courses was achiev.- *he training design
and operational plan were only partially completed and the training specialist
was not able to function adequately.
19.         A computerized accounting system was designed, hardware was purchased
and the system was made partially operational.   The systems for payroll and
personnel, financial accounting and fixed assets were tested and are in use at
head office. The computerized banking system was working in one branch. The
loan system has been programmed but still remains to be converted into Arabic.
Computer hardware for other branches was bought but not installed.   Despite
uncompleted work, computerization appears to be the most tangible accomplishment
of the project.
20.         The agricultural credit survey was initiated and completed during
the last 6 months of the project.   Despite the late completion, the survey
provided useful insights into the rural financial system. Findings could be used
for planning CACB's lending strategy, and for any future IDA lending operation
if conditions warrant.
21.         Construction of the six agricultural extension centers was completed,
and savings accruing from construction of housing for extension agents were
later diverted to SSHARDA for use in financing equipment, mobile audio visual
units, and nursery requirements. The construction of the Saadah branch of CACB
was nearly completed at closing date.
22.         New  loans  issued  initially  increased from 1982  to 1985,  but
continuously declined thereafter (Table 7). By category, short term lending in
nominal terms increased by 75X between 1982 and 1987, and its share in total
lending remained relatively stable at 30-35X. Lending was heavily concentrated
on medium term loans, which rose by nearly 501 during the same period, and
represented about 63-70X of total lending; irrigation equipment and farm
machinery (tractors) accounted for over 50Z of total lending during the 1982-
87 period. By far the largest beneficiary was irrigation equipment, which
quadrupled in value between 1982 and 1985, when it represented about 451 of
lending; even after falling in 1987, it still accounted for 45X. The lending
trend also exhibited   a decline in exceptionally large loans for poultry
production, which were partly responsible for the deterioration of CACB's
financial position. The agricultural credit survey (1989) conducted under the
project concluded that the major contribution of CACB was in financing irrigation
investment and farm machinery.   The survey confirmed that credit demand for
working capital was strong, and the increase in short term lending was in
response to this demand. It may therefore be concluded that the project had a
significant impact on augmenting CACB's resources, particularly foreign exchange,
for lending operations.
23.         The agricultural  credit survey also showed that CACB made a
significant contribution to financing farm activities. It supplied an estimated
461 of the total loans obtained by borrowers from all sources, which Is high by



-7-
any standard. Two out of ten survey farmers were borrowers during 1989, and 42X
of these borrowers got their loans from CACB; informal sources of rural credit
supplied the rest, while commercial banks played virtually no role in
agricultural credit. However, this performance should be put in perspective:
CACB is the only source of agricultural credit in ROY, and the former Agriculture
Credit Bank had succeeded in developing agricultural credit operations based on
the imnortation of and sale to farmers of equipment in the main agricultural
areas in the country. On thfe other hand, the survey found borrowers' transaction
costs high due to lengthy and time consuming procedures. A high potential for
mobilizing rural savings was underscored by the study, but potential savers are
inadequately served by deposit facilities. Neither commercial banks nor CACB
aggressively  pursued deposit  taking in rural  areas.    For  its  long-term
development strategy, the credit study recommended that CACB's role in rural
savings mobilization should ba emphasized; its role as a financial institution
should be reviewed for possible expansion to cover the full range of financial
intermediation, along with serious upgrading of institutional capacity.
24.          CACB's financial position can be summarized as follows.  CACB's
nominal capital remained at YR 198.8 million during the 1982-88 period. The
capital/asset ratio is adequate and exceeded 24X in that period. This ratio,
however, fell from a high of 451 in 1984, mainly due to a fixed capital base and
increasing loan volume. The long term debt to eguitv ratio increased from a very
low 1.0 in 1985 to 1.5 in 1988.   The ratio of total liabilities to equity
increased from 1.7 to 2.7 in the same period.  This ratio, however, remains
satisfactory and reflects a strong equity position. CACB should nevertheless
guard against rising indebtedness and writing off non-performing debts,
especially in the Eastern Region, which could dilute this ratio. The level of
provisions for doubtful debts was raised significantly from 11% of the total loan
portfolio in 1986 to 131 in 1988.  Under normal conditions, this reflects a
prudent policy. However, the collection rate plummeted during the project period
(para 26). Also, there were some guarantees and receivables (YR 154 million in
1987) for which no provisions were made.   Thus, although provisions appear
adequate in the short run, they have to be raised significantly in the future
if non-performing debts continue t-> increase at a rapid pace. It should be noted
that CACB is insulated against exchange risks of foreign loans which are assumed
by Government. CACB's revenues exceeded expenses in 4 out of the last 5 years.
Net income reached a peak of YR 10 million in 1985 when trading volume and
revenue were high.   In 1988, CACB reported a loss of YR 5.2 million mainly
because of rising administrative and other expenses and falling loan volume and
revenue.   Discounting an abnormally high revenue of YR 24 million in 1987
resulting mainly from foreign exchange valuations, CACB would have incurred a
high loss in that year also. Income as a percentage of average assets was low
and varied between 0.5Z and 2.0X during the period before turning negative in
1988.
25.         High lending costs and inadequate spread on loans, along with low
recovery rates, persisted throughout the project life and undermined CACB's
financial structure.  Detailed analysis performed during project supervision
showed a very high cost of loan administration of about 13Z of outstanding loans
during 1989.  This high cost was due largely to the high ratio of wages and
salaries to total cost, particularly at headquarters, and reduced lending volume.



-8-
While a high wage bill was the direct result of merging two credit institutions,
reduced loan volume was caused by foreign exchange and import restrictions,
which led to shortages and rising costs of imported agricultural production
inputs, machinery and equipment. Recommendations were made by IDA supervision
missions to reduce costs arising from overstaffing but necessary steps were not
taken to resolve the problem.
26.         Loan recovery rates between 1982 and 1988 continuously declined to
unsustainable levels, from around 55X-70X to less than 502 during 1988 and below
401 as at November 1989 (see Table 9). This was largely because of: (i) rapid
expansion of lending in the Eastern Region for social and political
considerations in an area that is undergoing transformation from tribal society
to federal government; and (ii) three large loans which had been in arrears.
More adequate and competent staff support at the field level, better loan
screening process, better collection efforts and procedures could have improved
the collection performance. IDA's proposal to establish a separate fund for the
Eastern Region to insulate CACB's core credit operations from the financial
impact of lending in the Eastern Region did not materialize; but lending was
reduced in the Eastern Region. Analysis of the problem of loan repayment by IDA
supervision missions resulted in the preparation of an action plan to improve
collection. However, effective collection efforts were not pursued.
27.         Improving the quality and adequacy of field staff for efficient
credit delivery and recovery remained an issue by the credit closing date. The
contributions of the planning and training components of the project were also
quite limited.   It appears that the project's objective of improving CACB's
institutional performance was achieved to a very limited extent only.
28.         The project, as designed, does not permit the measurement of benefits
directly, and therefore, no attempt was made to measure the project's economic
rate of return (ERR), or the financial rate of return (FRR). The on-lending
component was primarily intended to augment CACB's foreign exchange resources
in general and finance diverse types of projects. However, indicative FRRs and
ERRs estimated for various farm models ranged between 19-32X.
G.    Prjqee Sustainabilitv
29.         _ecause of limited achievements, the decision was made to close the
project even if some components remained uncompleted. The project was initially
viewed as the first of a series of credit projects to support CACB. However,
it is not possible to consider a second credit project unless the following
issues are resolved: collection rates increase significantly; administrative
cost is reduced; and policy issues such as phasing out negative real interest
rates, insulating CACB from social and political pressures, and the possible
divestiture  of trading act; 'ties, are addressed.   It should be recognized,
however, that some policy is,ues are not sector-specific, or lie outside the
jurisdiction of CACB, such as the level of interest rates, spinning off trading
activities, and the establishment o. the proposed special fund for the Eastern
Region; these should be pursued through macroeconomic and sector dialogue.



- 9 -
30.         Benefits  of  certain  components  of  the  project,  such  as
computerization, improvements in procedures, limited acquired training skills,
and construction of the Saadah branch and extension centers, would accrue long
after the closing date. Also, on-lending activities enabled the introduction of
modern technology in irrigation, farm machinery, and poultry and dairy
activities, and benefits would accrue over the economic lives of these projects.
However, the current rate of abstraction of groundwater in the main aquifers is
not sustainable in the long run. Other components, particularly institutional
reforms of CACB, where very little progress has been achieved, are not
sustainable. More important, very low and falling loan repayment rates endanger
the survival of CACB as a financial institution.
H.    Consulting Services
31.         The  performanc'e  of  consultants   and  advisers  was  mixed.
Unfortunately, their effectiveness in general was modest, and some performed
poorly.   The resident consultants had a very limited impact on key policy
questions, like interest rates, the financial position of CACB, and limiting or
segregating loans in the Eastern Region.
32.         The recommendations of the consulting firm which prepared the
organization study were not adopted. The report appears to have been made as
an independent study rather than a joint undertaking of consultant and client.
Since recommendations of the study did not receive the full concurrence of the
client and the Civil Services Commission which reviewed it, it was easy to reject
its findings, particularly the proposal of adding another administrative layer
at the regional level to an already over staffed organization. Emphasis should
have been placed on determining the staff requirements of individual units of
CACB to attain greater efficiency and reduce costs rather than changing its
organizational structure.
33.         Design of the computer system appears to be adequate. Implementation
was contracted out but the contractor was responsible for repeated delays. The
performance of the consulting firm which carried out the agricultural credit
survey was impressive in terms of speed and content but this was also due to the
cooperation of CACB staff.
34.         Among the resident consultants, some made significant contributions,
notably the credit adviser, whose tenure was shorter than originally planned,
after he was recalled to serve his Government. In general, CACB staff were most
comfortable with technical advisers who directly participated in day to day work,
and who were willing to work side by side with them, sharing their workload.
The effectiveness of the credit adviser, and of a fishery credit adviser financed
under Cr. 1025-YAR during the same period, were impressive at the working level.
The planning and research adviser and the training specialist did not perform
satisfactorily.
I.    Project Documentation and Data



- 10 -
35.         CACB provided 1DA regularly with audit and progress reports, albeit
with delays. CACB also provided data requested by IDA for the preparation of
the PCR, although it did not prepare Part II of the PCR as requested by IDA.
Since the agricultural credit survey was completed at the end of the project
period, results of the study gave some indications of the impact of the project.
J.    IDA Performance
36.         Due to the lack of strong commitment to project objectives, IDA was
unable to resolve issues vital to the financial viability of CACB such as
lowering of administrative cost, improving loan repay'ent rates, raising of
interest rates, and improvement in overall financial performance. IDA helped
in preventing CACB from further exposure to extremely large loans to individual
borrowers, but was unable to protect it from lending to the Eastern Region, or
establishing a special fund for that region. IDA agreed to extensions of the
project closing date because of the vital role of CACB in other IDA projects,
particularly projects which had no credit components of their own, and to enable
completion of the computer program.
37.         To improve the effectiveness of the consultants, a special seminar
was organized to enable staff to express their concerns and fears, and for the
consultants to explain, and if necessary adjust,  their role.   But despite
substantial efforts, IDA was not very effective in allaying CACB's skepticism
about substantive institutional changes.
38.         Supervision missions were fairly regular and adequately staffed.
(Tables 11(a) and 11(b)).  These missions addressed the main issues through
dialogue. CACB's initial reluctance to hire consultants was overcome, lending
in the Eastern Region and very large loans were reduced, and a major loan was
liquidated. However, discussions regarding interest rate adjustment, divestiture
of trading activities, and agreed plans to raise loan repayment rates and improve
CACB's financial position, did not achieve the desired objectives.
39.         The major cause of weakness in implementation was the lack of
commitment to allow CACB to fun.ction as an autonomous financial institution,
and to enhance its institutional and financial performance. Although this issue
was raised repeatedly during implementation; IDA should have made this a
fundamental issue for project continuation or suspension at an early stage.
Also, IDA should have taken a firm stand regarding compliance with covenants.



K.    Borrower Performance
40.         CACB was constrained in part by Government from adopting specific
policies necessary for its financial health.   As a Government-controlled
organization, CACB was unable to convince Government to consider raising interest
rates. Also, CACB served as a vehicle to finance Government-owned and initiated
enterprises, which partially gave rise to its financial problems. Utilizing CACB
as a channel for lending for social or political considerations in the Eastern
Region, which accounted for about one fourth of its loan portfolio, had a
negative impact on the financial position of CACB. Repayment in the Eastern
Region plunged to 1.5X towards the end of the project period.
41.         CACB was unable to complete some project activlties by the closing
date, including full utilization of technical assistance resources made available
by the project. CACB prepared specific plans and programs as agreed with IDA
missions, but performance fell short of agreements. CACB should be given credit
for complying with reporting requirements.   Its staff also provided strong
logistical support and data to IDA staff during supervision missions.
Satisfactory completion of the agricultural credit survey in a short period of
time is an indication that given the proper incentives and guidance, the staff
of CACB can respond to challenges.
42.         In general, Government did not review the interest rate issue to
permit CACB to operate with adequate margins, nor did it allow CACB to develop
as an independent financial institution and separate trading from banking
activities.  Furthermore, lending at Government behest to the Eastern Region
adversely affected CACB's financial condition.
L.    IDA-Borrower RelationshiR
43.         On the whole, the relationship between IDA and the Borrower was
satisfactory and cordial, although in the beginning IDA's supervision activities
were viewed with some suspicion. However, relations improved considerably as
project implementation proceeded, and sensitive issues were raised and discussed
in a frank atmosphere.
M.    Lessons Learned
44.         The key lessons of the project were the following:
(a) IDA should more clearly distinguish between the need for institutional
reform, and the financial institution's commitment to such reform. Where
commitment is lacking, the project should not be undertaken or be discontinued
at an early stage.
(b) Where the rural financial sector is still rudimentary, and new
institutions are being set up, the credit project should be preceded by a
technical assistance program, possibly grant financed by a donor agency.



- 12 -
(c) Another lesson is the difficulty of tackling sectoral or national
policy issues, such as negative real interest rates, at the project level; tuomse
issues should be incorporated in sector or macroeconomic dialogue, and shoild
be reflected in IDA's overall lending strategy.   Therefore,  future credit
operations should not be viewed in isolation, but rather within the wider context
of the financial sector and macroeconomic setting.
(d) The four-year project implementation period was short in view of the
institution-building nature of the project and the stage of development of the
implementing financial institution. Similar future projects should allow for
realistic implementation periods.
(e) Project design of financial intermediation loans should assess the
downstream impact of on-lending activities on ground water use and aquifer
depletion where water is a scarce resource, and regulatory mechanisms do not
exist. If conditions warrant, well drilling and equipment should be excluded
from on-lending activities.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OP YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1308-YAR)
PART IIt BORROhER'S CO?M4LETION REPORT
No PCR has been received from the Borrower. The implementing agency,
especially after the departure of the consultants hired under the project, is not
in a position to prepare a meaningful completion report.
Given the lapse of time since project completion, it was decided to
proceed without the Borrower's PCR. CACB staff, however, were very cooperative
in providing the data requested by IDA in a timely manner.



- 15 -
PROJEcT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1308-YAR)
PART IIIt SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1
Related Bank Loans ard/or Credits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..................... ............................................. .....................
Lo n/Credit       Title                                         IDA Cr./Ln. Amt.  Approval Year     Status
(USS in million)
1.  CR 1067       $ROP It                                             17              1984          Closed
2.  CR 14S3       Central Highland Agriculture Development             8              1984          On-going
3.  CR 1584       Wadi Al Jauf Agriculture Development                10              1984          On-going
4.  CR 1667       Tiham  V                                            10              1986          On-going
5.  CRl 1m        SRADP                                               12              1987          On-going
6.  CR 186        Agriculture Development (Northern Region)           18              1988          On-going
7.  CR 1983       Agriculture Development (Eastern Region)            Is              19&9          On-going 1/
..................................................... ..............  ......................................................................... .............. ...
SURDP: Southern Uplauid Rural Development Project.
SRADP: Southern Rural Agriculture Development Project.
1/ Not Yet Effective (as of 7/15/90).



- 16 -
Table a
PROJECT TIETA3LE
*  a..            a~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~..                   a..... ..aa.
..................... ............................... .......... ol ....................................
Iti                                Dato Plawd                     cate teised                         Date Actul
.............. ..  .....................                                       ........................................................... a...................
Identiffcatfon                                                                                           februa, 1961
Polltow
CIExsativ  Project SUNrvY)              Jue, 1981                                                        Ju.W, 1981
- PrepWatin                                June, 1981                                                        Jure 10-17, 1961
e Preappisal                               Early Sap. 1961                                                   Sept 07-2, 16
- Appraisal Nision                         JanFeb. 1982                     Jamry 20, 19#                    Jan 27-Feb 22  1982  t/
- Credit Naotiatiae                        October, 1962                    Octoboe  26, 1962                Wovmber 01, 19
- Board Approval                           Oec. 21, 1982                    Dec. 14, 1962                    Dacmber 14, 1982
- Credit Sigwutue                          March, 1983                                                       March 31, 19
- Credit Effectfvwns                       June 30. 198                     March 02, 198                    Jawary 27. 1984
- ProJect Cowtotfon                        Decwber, 1986,                   DOceebr, 1989                    Decadtr, 1989
* Credit Closing                           Jurn  30. 197                    ODeeber  31. 1989                Decenr, 1989
, .. .... .............................................................................................................................................. 
1/  Appraisal Nieson Nebeu                  Taat M. ladder * IOA (Tea  Leader)
Marto Bleetero*s -IDA fconomist
Tamer Tetik - AgricuLturat Credit Consultnt
Maurice V. Sorenon - Agricultural Credit ConuLtant



-  17  -
Table 3
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key Performance indicators
........  ww................................................... ...
Appralsel        Actual (Or PCR
Indicators                  Unit        Estimates           Estimates
............................................................................... ..
Activity
Advisors                     mM 180                            79
Consultants                 m-m              27                 21
Construction
............
CACS                                                      Completion Expected
Saadah Branch               No.               I           June 1990.
MAP's
Extension Centers            No.              6           Completed
Training
CAC8 Staff                  Course                        About 30X attained:  som
(various fields)            Weeks                         in-service training,
Offered         20           mainly computer
operation and short-term
foreign training.
Studies
Credit Survey                              1984           Completed December 1989.
Organization
Recomfen.dtions not
implemented - CACS
considers present
structure adequate; IDA
concurs.
Accounting &                                              Completed; Partially
Information Study                                      implemented.
On-Lending
....*.....
Loan disbursed                   S    4.0 million        4.1 million.
Management Information Center (MIC)
................ .......................................... .. ..
HO Main Branch - Terminal                                Completed; Operational.
Branch - Work Station                                    Partially completed;
Completion expected
June9 1990.
CACBSs Financiul Position
................. .........................
Debt Equity Ratio  9/89                                   Adequate 2.6:1
Lending Cost  9/89                        10X            Very high (22%)
Loan Recovery Rate  11/89                80%             Very Low (381)



- 18 -
'able 4 (a)
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
(USS million)
,,,.. ....................,......... ,"......................................... ...........................................................
Appraisal  Estimates                              Actual Estimates
.... ......*.............................     ............ .................... .
Local   Foreign          Total                  Local    Foreign           Total
A.   Institution Building
1.   CACS                                  1.60        2.50         4.10                     2.00        2.30         4.30
2.   NAF                                   1.50         1.00        2.50                     1.90         0.60        2.50
S.   Credit Survey                         0.10        0.00         0.10                     0.10         0.00        0.10
C.   Agricultural  Credit                  1.60        4.20         6.00                     2.30        4.10         6.40
................                            ..... :;...... .................................... :i..............
TOTAL                                      5.00        7.70        12.70                     6.30        7.00        13.30
Table 4 (b)
B. Project Financing
................... ........................... ........
(USS million)
.... ........... ......................................................
Ptaned
Source                Loan/Credit                 Actual
Agreement              Estimated                      X
......... ...   ............................. .................
- IDA
8.00                     7.90                   98
Goverment                  4.70                      5.40                   115
TOTAL  -                  12.70                    13.30                    105



Tablo 5
DI SWRSENENTS
. .. .. ...
(USS million)
(Original mount: SDR 7.5 million at appraisal]
........ ............... .". ... ........---.............--.. ..   ......
Fiscal   Appraisal                            Actual Disbursments
Year        Estimtes                   ........................ . -
Historical                 Percent                    Actual  X
USS mitllon                      SOR                  USS mitlion                Disbursed                        of
(in miLlion)               Equivalent                     SDR                    Appraistl
......................... ....................................................... ......... ......... ... ..... ............................. .....
1983              0.3
1984              3.7                         0.01                        0.01                       1.00                       0.00
1985              6.5                          1.73                       186                      23.10                       26.60
1986              7.7                         3.65                        4.12                     48.70                       53.50
1967              8.0                          5.00                       5.83                     66.60                       72.90
1988                                          5.60                       6.62                      74.70                       82.80
1969                                          6.07                        7.23                     81.00                       90.40
1990                                          6.55                        7.86                     87.40                       92.00
..........................................................................................
Dato of Final Disbursement:  May 9, 1990                            C512,314.80)
.......................................................................................



- 20-
Table 6
COMPLIANCE WITH COVENATTS
............ 1(.................., 
Description                   DeadlIne                   Status
Covenant                   of Covenant                  or Coaptionce
Doc.: CA                   Credit Survey               1984                        Launched In July 1989
Section: Sched. 2                                                                  after cnsiderale
d ley. CoMpleted in
December 1989.
Doc.: CA                   Review Intere"t Rates       Jun 1964 & there-           Interest rates
Section: 4.03              and recommond adjustments  after at regular             reviewed, but Gvt.
as naybe required.         intervals not               was not willing  to
exceeding two years.        raise interest rates
in ogrIculture In order
not to discourag farmers
from adapting modern
inputs.
Doc.: PA                   Progress Report             At leoast every three       Generatly late compliance.
Section: 2.06(b)                                       months.
Doo.: PA                   Recruit Experts and
Consultants as per
Schedule 2.
1. orgnization &
Procedure Consultant        June  1983              Complied, with delay.
2. Training Consultant         Junm  1983              Co fpied: with delay.
3. Accounting Systom Cons.    Ju, 1983                 CoplI ed  with delay.
4. Credit Advisor              Jur, 198                CoWtiedd  with delay.
(Shorter duration)
S. Finanial Controller         JUno, 1983              Complied, _tt delay?
(Part-time)
6. Ploaming & Res. Advisor     Jue, 1983               Compiled, with delay.
T. Management Advisor          Sep., 198               Complied, with delay.
(Part-tim)
8. Livestock/Poultry Spec.    Dec. 198                 Not CoMplied
Doc.: PA
Section: 3.02(a)           Accounts to be audited by
Indkpendent Auditor                                    Compliad.
3.02(b)           Furnish Audit Report        Not later than six
months after end of         Generally complied
year.                      with late submittal.
Doc.: PA                   Divest activities relating                              Did not comply because
to procurement nd supply                               this was a profit
of faon machinery and                                  center for CACB.
equipment.
CA: Credit Agreement       PA: Project Agreement



- 21 -
Table 7
COOH3ATSV  ND AGICULTURAL CREDIT Si=
Loas Issued and Outacand1ng, 1982-1988
(in Rs million - nouLial)
----- Loan  Issued-----           Loma OutstandLng, End Year
IslE    Amott   groyth (I)AMwi                       Grothl (1)
1982      93.7                               234.6
1963     148.1        56                     213.5          (9 . 0)
1984     164.3        11                     277.$          30.0
1985     194.0        19                     352.1          27.0
1986     186.0       (5)                     392.0          11.0
1907     144.9      (22)                     389.0          (1.0)
19g8     141.0       (3)                     395.0           1.5
6us  CACI



CAC: LOU  IS6WO     TESO AI FI
tIRIs '006)
........................................... .......................................................................................... ,_,........................... _............................ 
1962-t96              1967              196                195                1964                1963               192
........................................ ............................................ .............. ...................... .. _....__. .... _.. ._. ._..
Dacription                                  Aat          o.    Am,t           .     Amt       go.    MRt         le.   Amut         lo.   MAiNS        lb.   Anb t       so.
........... ...................... .......................................................................................................... _............................................................................ ...........__
1. Sbort-tter  Loans                            232.081   25.733   50,501      MS515   46,149    5.279   39,43    5,117   33.9         4,309   33 076    2,931  25,724    2.Sf2
A.  gicutlrurat  Lowns                         199 052   25,5J0   4S.3S9    S.496   43 229    5.261   3S.110    S,106   26,309    4,34    27.4SS    28           21,So9    2,45
1. iqaoved  em 7.7                                         1,45    3.223       866    1,382        113      717      115      3           4      896       III    1.222      157
2. fertilizers                                   129         356         -                                    4        5      248 3U              174 r           1,43       27
3. Pesticides tud Spisyers                        8394      le                            -                       -             2        1         -        -       92      11t
4. Pokins Expi  ~s                             139.067   16,45   31,756    3,757   29,616    5.973   26.243    3.74S   19.952    2.69    1?7U.   2,532   13,7             1741
S. Fruit Plantation Deveicpent                   9s644    1.437    2.441        432    2,542       30    2.40        248 1U S1          191      839       lSS       45       m
6. Cotton Plantation Develogpent                11.633    3.336    1.251        351    2.242       764    3,25S      936    2.295    1.26    2.790           I
7. Repair of Agricultural Equipment              2,196       194      ll        SS     3D4         37      306       30      29         31       210       25      19         16
S. chicks nd Pead Stuff                         21.054       I6    5.n77         38    7,063        71    2.103       27    1.499        14      .S86       1S    2,926        13 
9. Dairy Loom                                       49         a                                                                                   4         S
10. Land Oralep Int                                 196        23                                                               49         a       147       1S        _
11. Cooperative Societies Loans                   4,202         S         -                                                    206         1    2,983         1    1.019         3
b. Copeprative Ln  and Facilities               33,029       174    5.142        17    2.920        18    4.533       11    7.590        45    5.621        34    7.21S        46
1I. Nsdieterm L                                   ,m       1S.426   92.U0    2.051  127,724    2,S53   156,316    3.096  130.3W        2.966  11S,011    2.781   t.934    t.ga1
a. Aicuturat Leans                                 164   15.365   AS,270    2,00  121.23        2,S22  1S,9    3.,5  126,365    2.972  112.322    2.m    62,164    1.97
1.  ricultural machlnery & Equip.nt            171.053    1,428    4.2           23   3S.64       229   3S,35        26    531          294   41.401       3 S2   23.1S6     214
2.  rigation Units       Accoris               322,61      S .0   S9,6        1.1     546       1.23   W,"         2.1       ,376    1.921   35.,0S    1.3    23,926    101
S. lnd lo ep-nt                                 48103    3,001    4.593         579    6162       522    4,922                 2        333   15.579 ,s*          5,          -
4. Orcbaads Establishmont                       2629         153    2.758       III    6.553      116    5     ~    140    7,19         174    2,612       1"     1,964       III
5.  oulttry Projects                               383       340    4 614        24    7 605       5       ,'         "    1.S 0   U           18,133       42    7. _        50
6. shep  d Co  fattening                        10322         78    1.:S6         7    2.303           3  3m          13    1 71         n 276               3
T. t f _rles OEYIIOP nt                          9.254       739    1.299       121    2.511      196    1,05        1t 1nU25          1n  1.10           104      604       6
S. Beekeeping                                      is          5       I                   016S
9. gicAtural Store                                 896       3n       1O          5      139         7      3         1t       1          8         -                 5        2
IS. OriIIiai of Mydroulic Walls                   6.o52       104    2.106        29    3,63        23       324        5         *        .         _                 , -
b. Coprative Len                                22,S69        61    7.17t        21    6.40?        15 3s              1    3.943         8    2,619         0    1.956        a
III.  Long-taneans                               14,0OS         1    1,993             12.01U        1         *                           -         .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .................. ........... .................. ,,,.._
..m.



- 23 -
Tabl 9
Recovery of Due Loans IL, by Term, Purpose *and Year
1962 - 1986
(in Percent)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987 "i 1986
Short Term                    62      67     66      72     80     72        65
Medlum Tars                   59      60     71      67     65     53        43
AgrIculture machinery       63      61     76     74      66     55        42
Irrigation                  60     61      70     71      69     52        43
LAnd development            56      56     65     52      55     54        57
Orchard projects            70      66     78     56      66     52        29
Poultry projects            S0      53     45     61      58     53        38
LIvestock Projects          50      69     45     64      58     56        28
FLsherLes                   59      51     45     43      45     47        40
Others                      25      44     40     31      46     37        74
Total                       60      62     70     66      69     56        47c/
A/ Principal only.
h/ Drought year.
c/ For 1989, recovery rate was down to 38X (as at 11/89).
Source: CACB



-24 -
PtOJECT NESUTS
Table 10 (a)
A. Target Achivwmnts
............................
.......................................................................................................... 
pprofsla                     Est. at Full
Indicators                 Estimete                     ODevoop  nt
................... .........>........................I.................. ........... .......................  
CAU
Additional Branches             I                             I
Subtmos                    USS4.1 million                US54.1 mill1an
Cowputerization             Ho & Dranches                 HO &  rsnches
MAF
Extene1on Conters
Sadah                    3                             3
* HajJah                   3                             3
On-Lendirg:  Credit intended to aument CACdSs foreign exchang
resources in general; therefore, no pecific projects
wre financed wnder the credit.



- 25 -
Tablt 10 (b)
STUDIES COMPLETED
..................
Purpose a: Dofinwd                                            Impact
Studies            at Appro1rat                      Status                    of Study
.............................................................. ....................................................................................................*
Organiation &    To define the rules,                  Completed In 1964.         Not Implewnted.  In 198
Procedure Study  practices and procedure by           The study was               CACS didn t pprov
Mhich CACS staff are to             carried out by              the organizational recoamendations.
operate. The consultant             Cooper and
would exmine the orgni-             Lybrand (CML)
zational structure of               Associates.
CACS. establish controls,                                       Credit Menus
and assist In preparation                                       was c pletcH
of a new procedure nmnuel.
Accounting &      To prepr rond assist in             Coapleted.                  Partially Implmonted.
Infornotion       the implementation of a             The study Was               CoMuter system
Study             new acconting system and            carried out by              installed and is In
computor syston suitable            Publoc                      operation.
for CACD's operation.               Administration
Services (PAO).
Training          To plan & develop suitable          Parti0lly                   Partially Implemented.
Program           curriculum and syllabi              Completed.
and proparation of train-
ing _torerls for courses
required for continued
training of staff.
Credit Survey     Define lending strategy             Completed. Carried          Anolyzed rural fitn nial
for CACB                            out by AgricuLtural         soetor. Will assist CACB in
Cooperativ  Developm  nt    ft-ailuating future
International (ACWI)       strategy.
........        ......       ........................  .............................................



- 26 -
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Table 11 (A)
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks
Stage of                    Planred  Revised  Ffnal
Project Cyclo                   Total       Total    Total             Comments
..............................................................._.................
Through Aoalsal
JanF*b. 1982-                                             _
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Decoer  14, 1962                                        J70.7
Board Approval through
Effectiveness
Janry 27, 1964
Supervision Starting
FY19U4                                                    4.80
FY1985                                         -           5.40
FY1966                                                     9.60
FY1967                                         -           9.50
FY1985                                          9.00      9.20
FY199                               -          14.00      14.40
FMl990                               8.00       7.00       7.00
=.......................... .. ...... ......... ........................................................



Table 11 (b)
Missio
Stog  of               Nonth/          No. of         Days in          Speciali-                      Perforance                       Type of
Project cycle            Year          Persons         Field            zaticn                        Statu  Ratirg                    Problm
... .. ................................................................................................................................. ..................................................................................._
Throuah Anoraisl
Jan./Feb. 1982
1/81 IDA        1              30              FA                         Recarissamnce
2/81 FAD-CP     4              22              FN, Ag., ISp., FA           Identification
3/81            1              13              L0
6/81            1               5              Sr. rA                      Identification Follou up
6/81            t               7              Sr. rA                      Pre-prapartion
*6/81            1               11             Div. Chief
9/81            5              21              Sr FA, Ag., E. ISp., rA    Prnepration
9/81            1               9              L0
*9/81            1               14             Div. Chief
1/82            4              21             E., FA, ISp.. Ag.            Appraisal
2/82            1              10              L0
5/82            1              25              Sr. FA                      Post Appraisal
10/82            1              14              Sr. FA
*11/82            1               9             LO
December 14, 1982
1/83            1               9              L0O
1/83            1              14             Sr. FA
3/83            1              16              L0O
4/83            1              12              Sr. FA
8/83            1              20              Cr. Sp.
8/83            1               14             Ag.
sueervislon             11/84             4              21             Ag.. I Eng.. Cr. Sp., S            1                          Delay in recruitment
12/84            2              21             Ag., Cr. Sp.                       2                           of cosultant and
5/85            1               7              Cr. Sp../FA                       2                           exprts.  Lagging
2/86            2              14               A, As. Ec.                       3                           Disbursements.
12/86            1               9              Sr. FA                            3                           Deley In credit
K4/87            3               S              Ag. Ec., FA. Ag.                  3                           survey nd interest
10/87            1              11             Ag. Ec.                            3                           rate review.  Lou
4/88             2               9              Ag. Ec., Cr. Sp.                  3                           collection rates &
9/88            2                7             Ag. Ec., Cr. Sp.                  3                           high costs of loan
3/89            2               6              Ag. Ec., Cr. Sp.                  3                           adninistration &
10/89            1               S              Cr. Sp.                           3                           divesting trading
actifities.
List of Abbreviations:
A     a Agriculturist                     Ag.       gronomist
E     a Economist                         Ope    a Operations Officer
Eng   * Engineer                          Cr. Sp.* Credit Specielist
FA    * Fin ncial Analyst                 IS.    * Institution Specialist
LO    * Loan Officer                      Sr.    * Senior
S     * Sociologist                       Ag.Ec. a Agriculture Economist
I Eng a Irrigption Engineer              FM      * Farm Mechanization Specialist
Status Rating:  1 - Problem Free or Minor Problem              2 a Moderate Problem          3 = Major Problems
* Nission to evaluate several projects.



- 28 -
Page 1/2
Tab12 12 (a).       CO0PERTIVe  AND ARGR TE CREDIT ha\.
(Balance Sheet as at 31 December 1988 and 1987)
1988              1987
ASSETS                                           YR                 YR
Cash in Hand and at Banks                   244,820,198        255,676,642
Loans and Advances                          323,644,276        325,480,243
Other Debtors                               121,641,308        101,819,379
Inventory                                    66,547,608          3,672,888
Investment                                   24,506,792         24,506,792
Fixed Assets                                 26,153,307         27,796,430
Projects Under Implementation                 3,405,901          1,534,335
Deferred Expenses                           _   689.467          1.378.934
TOTAL -                                811,408,857        741,865,643
LIABIITIES
Current Accounts & Deposits                 183,368,387        144,244,500
Creditors                                    50,681,096         44,623,309
Bills Payable                                18,240,343             --
Personnel Indemnities and Dues                2,409,770          1,450,661
Other Provisions                              5.218.746             --
TOTAL -                                259.918.342        190.318.47Q
NET ASSETS                                  551.490.515        551.Z.
FINANCED BY:
Share Capital
- Government                               168,802,000        168,802,000
- Cooperative Societies                     30,000,000         30,000,000
Reserves                                      9,865,635          9,865,635
Accumulated Net Profits                           -             10,060,342
Government Financial Support                 47,58,,097         20,873,842
Medium & Long Term Loans                    300.393 .,M        308,564,934
556,648,726
Current year Net (Loss) Profit               (5.1582.fl)         3.380.420
551.490.515       551.547.173
CONTRA ACCOUNTS                               8.763.430          5.249.542
YPUWNh/JIO
.ctwAE\#R1WT&2Aw 8. IMI



- 29 -
Pt*a 2/2
Table _12  W(8.             COOPERATIVE AND AGRICULTURE CREDIT BANK
(Balance Shoot an at 31 Decemer)
196                      1065                      1is4
Cash in Hend end at banks                   254,201,959              120,149,828                 54.650,421
Loans and Advances                          348.545,212              318,635,437                259,270,015
Other Debtors                                87,073,251               88,285,785                 71,007,980
Inventory                                     5.162,o04               25,350,407                 13,285,460
Invstment                                    24.506,792               24,523,459                 25,814,164
Fixed Assets                                 25,180,438                9,691,794                  9,890,849
Projects Under IMplemntetion                  2,403,401                2,446,471                    570,077
Preliminary Epenses
not yet written off                                                     353.736                    707.471
747.073.667              598435.9L5                 43P.396.420
CONTRA ACCOUNTS                              25.7A9.GS8                 7.8f29 .  7               2.927.757
Current Accounts & Deposits                 173,891,802              111,987,300                 94,382,883
MHdium & Long Term Loans                    314,123,232              217,485,924                 88,403,710
Creditors                                    34,497.416               41,071,639                 28,917,618
Indemities                                      s38.303                7.044.835                 7.18s..L eos
AV.Aoso 753              377.559.98                 21838907099
CONTRA ACCOUN S                              26.749.684                72 29. 97                   .927.757
IET                                        Ml.b2aOa,                 217                        216.506.404
Goverrnmnt Contribution                     168,802,000              168,802,000                168,802,000
Local Cooperative
Societies Contribution                       30,000,000               30.000,000                 30.000,000
Reserves & Provisions                        25.220.914               22 .oes.17                 17.704.404
224,022.914              g20.867.017                216-506.404
.



- 30 -
Page 1/2
Table 12            GOtZ= AoewRXOunnn   ANU LTUE= MREDIT BANK
(Income and Expenditure Account)
1988              1987
INCOME                                           YR   _             YR
Trading Income                                8,668,684            654,422
Operation Income                             72.320.715         88.830.99Q
80.989.399        82,485.412
Trading Expenses                              6,992,384            268,768
Operation Expenses                           67,031,232         61,192,067
Provisions                                   12.123.994         24.268.555
66L147 i1Q       ,85729.390
Excess of Income over Expenditure            (5,158,211)         3,756,022
Appropriations                                    --75.02
(Deficit) Surplus Transferred to
Balance Sheet                               (5.158.21)          3.380.420



- 31 -
Page 2/2
Table 12 Cb\.       COOPERATIVE AU  AgRICUU    RI NK
(Income and Expenditure Account)
1986              1985               1984
.     YR                TR                 TR
Trading Income             7,530,363         17,540,165          7,906,446
Operation Income          63.046.738         54.755.942         44,832,612
Provisions written
back                        --_722.929                            --
7,0577.101        73.019.06          522.739.058
ITE
Trading Expenses             175,458          2,291,548          1,626,304
Operation Expenses        52,669,113         40,724,033         34,767,851
Provisions                14 7?7.688         19.9Q7.649         13.1Q7.5Z7
L7.622-259        62.923.230         49.411.730
Excess of Income
Over Expenditure         2,954,842         10,095,806          3,327,328
Appropriations           .   295.48           4.Q00.00-
(Deficit) Surplus
Transferred to
Balance Sheet             25  9357           6095.806           3.327.328.



IORD 22775
.5                 -&*                          ,              ;                                    C9QPRRATIV! ND ANACULTURAL CREDIT 9ANK;
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                          1    aNHeRUCHSNCAOD
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                0.-                       EWT CAPIeS
ft A I    A M A WV f                            +.   ' t  ORTtf
.. PORTS
~AUW  ARA,,                                                                                  - M ROAM
',AUDI    ARABIAE MCOND4                                                                                    m ROAO
TUCKS
- OOVRRWI0 AlT IOUNDOdES
T. ih                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HTM~AYK)NAOM ORDAME5
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I, "'nk 3   ,'  ._h *tr 
.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iiA'?' - MA MM                                       T',*
,,A'                        S                                         '-f A Li  tI
,rjlti8.?''Sl)~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oh                                                        00 th pedo eat    tUMpI
it.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n00kottn
43-                                                                       100              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~54* 1
L                                                                                                                          lyyl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AU~I~



