Document of                            FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3409-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$8.0 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
November 18, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981                      December 1981
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni rial (YRI)            YR1
$1  =  YRls 4.50 1/                4.50
YR1 1 =  $0.22                       0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB         Agricultural Credit Bank
ACF         Agricultural Credit Fund
CACB        Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CPO         Central Planning Organization
CYDA        Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Program
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
LDA         Local Development Association
MAF         Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NCDB        National Cooperative Development Bank
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Yemen Arab Republic
Agricultural Credit Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                   Special Drawing Rights 7.5 million (approximately
$8.0 million equivalent)
Terms.                    Standard
Project Description:   The proposed project is primarily designed to
strengthen the institutional capability of the
Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) and
to increase its ability to provide credit finance
needed for viable farm-level agricultural develop-
ment initiatives. It will also assist the Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries in the establishment of
extension centers in the border governorates of
Saadah and Hajjah.  The project comprises:  (a)
infrastructure development (civil works, equipment
and supplies) needed to support credit activities
and extension services; (b) technical assistance and
training in several key areas of CACB operations;
and (c) funds to assist CACB to expand its lending
program. The proposed project's main benefit would
be to strengthen CACB as an institution and thereby
establish a solid foundation for the ongoing provi-
sion of agricultural credit to Yemeni farmers to
enable them in turn to finance the irrigation
schemes, tractors, improved seeds, fertilizers and
other inputs which they need to expand their produc-
tion. Farm budget analysis shows that the economic
rate of return to such investments would be of the
order of 20-30 percent. The major risk relates to
the problem of credit recovery.  This risk is mini-
mized by the strong commitment of the Government and
CACB management to recovering public funds lent to
farmers and the inclusion of technical assistance
and training in the proposed project to support this
effort. The CACB management intends to use both
education and enforcement to ensure that its borrow-
ers repay their loans promptly.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii1
Estimated Cost:                               Local       Foreign         Total
(Project costs are exempted                              $ million      …
from customs duties and taxes)
A.  Technical Assistance Costs
Consultants' and Advisors'
Services 1/                          0.1           1.35          1.45
Agricultural Credit Survey              0.1           -            0.1
Overseas Training                        -           0.05          0.05
Subtotal                            0.2           1.4           1.6
B. Infrastructure Costs
Civil Works                             0.8          0.5           1.3
Furniture and Equipment                 0.1          0.1           0.2
Vehicles                                 -           0.25          0.25
ComDuting Machines                      0.05         0.3           0.35
Subtotal                            0.95          1.15          2.1
C. Credit
Subtotal                            1.8          4.2            6.0
D. Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                                1.0           -            1.0
Other Operating Costs                  0.4           0.3           0.7
Subtotal                            1.4          0.3            1.7
Project Base Cost                            4.4          7.0           11.4
Physical contingencies                       0.2          0.3            0.5
Price contingencies                          0.4          0.4            0.8
Subtotal                            0.6          0.7            1.3
Total Project Cost                           5.0          7.7           12.7
Financing Plan;
Government                                  4.7            -             4.7
IDA Credit                                  0.3           7.7            8.0
Total                                     5.0           7.7           12.7
1/ Including a Project Preparation Facility Advance of $0.1 million.



Estimated IDA Disbursements:  _IDA FY   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
---- - Tmillion -----------
Annual                                    0.3    3.4    2.8    1.2    0.3
Cumulative                                0.3    3.7    6.5    7.7    8.0
Estimated Completion Date:    December 31, 1986.
Rate of Return:                Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 4102-YAR, dated November 18, 1982






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDR) 7.5 million (approximately US$8.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance an Agricultural Credit project. SDR 3.76
million (approximately US$4.0 million equivalent) would be relent to the
Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank for 25 years, including 5 years of
grace, with interest at not more than 2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978; a
Country Economic Memorandum (No. 2856-YAR), dated October 23, 1980; a report
on manpower development (No. 3181a-YAR), dated March 27, 1981; and a report
on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554a-YAR), dated January 6, 1982,
have been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data are attached
in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private
sectors. Under the Three-Year Development Program (1974-76) and the First
Five-Year Plan (1977-81), the foundations of the country's physical and
social infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at
lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval
setting; industrialization was also started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.        Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased, on a net basis, from around $40 million in 1969/70 to a level that
has fluctuated around $1 billion on an annual basis between 1978 and 1980.
They have since dropped to close to $790 million in 1981 (on the basis of
tentative estimates by the Central Bank). Largely as a result of these cash
inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly over this
period, reaching an estimated $430 in 1980.
1/ Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report for the Health
credit approved by the Executive Directors on September 30, 1982.



-2-
Major Development Issues
6.        Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Agricultural land and water are
scarce and few mineral deposits have been discovered so far.
7.        The shortage of skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
YAR's development and limits the capacity of the public administration to
manage and implement a growing and increasingly complex development program.
The most critical shortages are in the skilled and semi-skilled occupations.
8.        A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for the
financing of fast-growing government expenditures. Although government
revenue rose rapidly during the 1970s, the tax base is still very small.
Most budget revenue is derived from import duties, while other sources of
taxation are still largely undeveloped. So far, budget deficits have been
covered through generous foreign aid. But this assistance could diminish in
relative terms over the longer run, a development which calls for measures to
broaden the tax base, strengthen the tax administration, and devise new
schemes to tap the savings of the private sector. A Bank mission, with IMF
participation, addressed these and related issues, and its report was
discussed with the Government in November 1981. The Government has already
implemented some of the mission's recommendations, but the tougher measures
are likely to take more time to implement.
Government Objectives
9.        As of the early seventies, the country has been trying to develop
human resources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and
social infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing
sectors, and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority
to their basic needs. The First Plan's targets which were in line with these
objectives have by and large been met except in the agriculture sector where
output has stagnated and actual growth fell considerably below targeted
levels primarily because of the abandonment of marginal rain-fed areas where
income opportunities could not compete with the opportunities of migration.
The production of qat (a mild stimulant) has been on the increase and has
competed for agricultural land. Its production is only partially reflected
in the national accounts.
10.       A draft Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) was presented to an
International Development Conference in April 1982. The Bank assisted as an
executing agency for a UNDP-financed project by overseeing some inputs used
by the Central Planning Organization for the plan. The plan aims at a
7 percent GDP growth target calling for a total investment of around $6.5
billion (1981 prices) over the plan period. The sectoral distribution of



investment underlies a continued broad-fronted strategy with a relative
emphasis on agriculture and manpower development. The plan's financing
depends heavily on external sources with around 70 percent of investment
expected to be covered by grants and loan disbursements and direct foreign
private investment. The Bank has cautioned the Government against setting
unrealistically ambitious targets and advised it to maintain flexibility in
plan implementation should the level of expected external resources prove
untenable.
Recent Economic Performance
11.       Overall economic performance during the First Plan period (1977-81)
has been satisfactory. Real GDP grew at around 6 percent p.a. Investment
effort was impressive averaging around one-third of GNP. Since 1978,
however, a noticeable deceleration in the growth of most economic aggregates
has set in. This has been mainly due to the stabilization in the inflows of
workers' remittances and private transfers. Since imports and consumption
continued to grow, national savings, the balance of payments and the foreign
exchange position deteriorated. Thus, the overall balance of payments which
showed considerable surpluses before 1978, showed an estimated $330 million
deficit in 1981. Reserves which were equivalent to around 20 months of
imports in 1975 were down to around 7 months by end 1981.
12.       The budgetary position has also deteriorated rapidly as of 1978.
The overall deficit has more than quintupled from 1977/78 to 1978/79 and has
remained around the same level (some $500 million) through 1981. The main
reason is the very steep rise in capital expenditures at a time when revenue
increases were moderate.
13.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy. Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $1748 million in 1981. This upsurge in import demand reflects the
rapidly rising cash incomes, the convertibility of the Yemeni rial, and the
absence of import restrictions.
14.       Although there are no reliable data on income and consumption
distribution in YAR, there are reasons to believe that the benefits from
recent growth have been widely distributed; migration has led to little
apparent unemployment so far, and strong family ties ensure that many people
benefit from the increase in incomes. Public social expenditures, especially
on education and health, increased substantially, and the associated benefits
accrue directly to an increasing segment of the population.
Capital Flows and External Debt
15.       Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,



-4-
including grants, came to around $2 billion by the end of 1981. The princi-
pal donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Iraq, USA
and West Germany as well as IDA and the Arab development funds.
16.       About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, for bud-
get support primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided through
the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A significant
part of official grants has been made available in the form of technical
assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type
of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many years to
come. Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans
and credits. Drawings on these loans have increased in recent years, reach-
ing $417 million in 1980 and $294 million in 1981. Most of the official
loans and credits have been committed for the financing of specific projects,
with the main emphasis on roads, agriculture, including irrigation, and
utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity assistance or as
cash loans.
17.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities
range from 5-50 years, with a median of 20-30 yea;rs.
18.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1981 was
estimated at $1747 million, of which $1094 million was disbursed. IDA
credits accounted for $239 million or about 14 percent of the total debt
reported. Because of their very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt
service payments amounted to $59 million for 1981, equivalent to around
1.3 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remit-
tances and private transfers). Service payments are expected to rise
significantly over the next decade.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS _/
19.       The proposed credit would be the thirty-third to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $302.8 million.2/ The World Bank strategy in YAR
has been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions,
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Health credit approved by the Executive Directors on September 30, 1982.
2/ This includes the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First
Tihama project, No. 376-1 YAR, and excludes the $7.0 million credit for
the Textile Rehabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was
cancelled at the Government's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



-.5-
skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development,
to develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agricul-
ture, and to support the Government in its programs to meet basic needs in
rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA has extended ten
credits, totaling $112.4 million, for agriculture, fisheries and rural infra-
structure; twelve credits, totaling $114.6 million, for infrastructure in-
cluding highways, ports, water supply and sewerage, power distribution, and
urban development; four credits, totaling $41 million, for education and
training; two credits, totaling $14.3 million, for industry; a $2.0 million
credit to promote the exploration of the petroleum and geothermal resources
to private companies; and a $10.5 million credit to strengthen and expand the
capability of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff and manage the country's
health care system. In FY78, an investment of $2.4 million by the Interna-
tional Finance Corporation was approved to help finance a dairy and juice
project.
20.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled and professional, and the newness and weakness of its
institutions. World Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to
strengthen Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increased
training of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as
through direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain
substantial components for technical assistance towards institution build-
ing. Three particularly important examples of the World Bank's support for
institution building have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF). In CPO, the World Bank
(through three grants totaling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a
team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a planning machinery.
The Bank has been the executing agency for a UNDP-financed project to assist
the CPO in the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan, 1982-86 (see para-
graph 10). In MAF, the Bank supplies the services of seven advisers ini-
tially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, and now financed
jointly by IDA, the EEC Special Action Fund (under the Second Tihama project)
and UNDP. The Agricultural Research Service at Taiz, which has the responsi-
bility for carrying out applied agricultural research for the country as a
whole, is also financed as part of this institutional support.
21.       YAR's disbursement performance (disbursements as a percentage of
total commitments) lagged somewhat lately largely due to the delay in the
recruitment of staff for project implementation and the shortage of counter-
part funds arising from budgetary constraints. Following a number of imple-
mentation reviews of the whole portfolio, performance started to improve and
implementation of ongoing IDA-assisted projects is now progressing satisfac-
torily. YAR's performance now compares favorably with the regional average
and is considerably above that of countries at a similar level of develop-
ment. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, Bank grants, and
IFC investments, as well as notes on the execution of the ongoing projects,
as of September 30, 1982.



-6-
22.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development
and education and training, and will seek to spread the benefits of develop-
ment more widely throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's
ability to implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and
technical assistance needed for successful implementation. A fifth education
project has been appraised; a third power project, a fifth highway project
and several agricultural development projects are in the preparation stage.
Future projects are expected to include water supply and sewerage, urban and
housing, and agricultural development, and may also include health and energy.
23.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its develop-
ment expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-
developed countries and requires special assistance through financing of a
large part of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As
in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially
h-gher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to co-
operate closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in
stimulating cofinancing. IDA-supported projects, including this project,
have led to about $325 million equivalent of cofinancing from other aid
donors.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
24.       Until the late 1960s, the agricultural sector of YAR was largely
oriented toward the subsistence needs of a stationary economy and contributed
little to improving the quality of rural life. The meagre endowment in land,
scant rainfall, isolation from opportunities for technological progress and
the lack of alternative economic opportunities combined to create an envi-
ronment of pervasive rural underemployment and poverty. As a result, agri-
culture generated little surplus on which growth and development could be
based. Traditional agriculture, however, was built upon a time-proven
mastery of scarce natural resources by means of terracing and ingenious
systems of water diversion, fixed land rights, and a self-contained social
organization solidly founded on village and tribal ties between the people
and the land. It is estimated that, during the sixties, agriculture employed
about 80-90 percent of the economically active population and contributed as
much as 90 percent of GDP.
Agricultural Sector Performance, Constraints and Policy
25.       Then, less than a decade ago, the sector was subjected to a rela-
tively sudden change in its economic environment. Higher wages in neighbor-
ing oil-exporting countries lured many male agricultural workers away from
the fields. Almost concurrently, the substantial savings by these migrant
workers remitted to their families back home raised domestic disposable in-
come significantly and this, in turn, translated into an upsurge in the local



demand for foodstuffs, including fruits, vegetables and other cash crops,
some of which were new to the Yemeni diet. In addition, the remittances led
to a bidding up of wages in sectors such as construction as investment in
housing increased rapidly. The responses to these changes were logical.
Marginal, rain-fed land cultivated with cereals such as sorghum and millet
was abandoned, and the smaller number of agricultural workers that remained
behind directed a larger share of their efforts to cultivating more re-
warding, and often new types of cash crops (including qat, which is chewed
for its stimulant value). These two shifts were all the more sensible given
*          the large increase in labor costs that resulted from the combined effects of
a larger demand for agricultural labor and a shrinking supply. The lack of
restrictive price regulations for crops, the existence of marketing channels
and greater Government attention to the sector all assisted the farmers in
their ability to respond to the new opportunities.
26.       The net effect of these counter balancing responses, namely, the
reduction in cultivated area and the shift to higher yielding varieties and
h;gher valued crops has been a relatively stagnant performance in the value
of agricultural production (excluding that of qat, for which the production
estimates are unreliable). Real value-added in the sector as a whole hardly
grew over the 1978-80 period but the sector still accounts for about 38 per-
cent of GDP and 70 percent of employment. However, it would be misleading to
interpret this lack of overall growth as poor performance. For although the
area cultivated with cereals and coffee shrunk because of the abandonment of
less competitive marginal land, the yield for all crops increased because of
better techniques and varieties, many new profitable crops were introduced,
and the production of domestically consumed specialty crops was greatly
expanded. Similarly, the dramatic increase in imports of foodstuffs both in
total value and in variety was a response of an open economy to higher
incomes and adapting tastes, and should not be viewed as evidence of poor
performance by the sector.
27.       Nevertheless, despite the economic rationality inherent in the
response of the Yemeni farmer to the change in his economic environment, the
problems that resulted cannot be ignored. The higher income and altered
tastes have made the country more dependent on imported foodstuffs while its
food exports, which were never substantial, dwindled from $14 million in
1973/74 to almost nil in 1978/79. The higher wages and land rental values
have also worked against the competitiveness of domestic production whether
for export or for import substitution. This is a matter of concern in a
country where agriculture has always been the mainstay and is likely to
remain its major source of domestic value added.
28.       Now that workers' remittances seem to have stabilized and are not
likely to increase signficantly in the future, the overall domestic economy
has to become more self-reliant by generating enough income to finance its
growing investment needs as well as by curtailing the growth of imports by
substituting with domestic production. Given the economy's limited potential
for industrial development and the uncertainty that is inevitably associated
with the search for mineral resources, growth in agriculture has to be relied
upon as the main productive activity that could sustain the improvement in



-8-
the standard of living, albeit at a slower pace than was made possible by the
increasing inflows of remittances.  However, due to rising living costs with-
in the country and competing demands on the now-stagnant remittances for
various consumption and other purposes, the funds which individuals have
available for investment in agriculture are gradually shrinking.
29.       Moreover, the stabilization in the level of remittances is in large
part due to the saturation in the demand in neighboring countries for Yemeni
labor. This has already had the effect of depressing wage rates for un-
skilled and agricultural labor in Yemen to more reasonable levels. With
time, such a trend is likely to make domestic production more competitive.
Thus, the stabilization of remittances is likely to have the triple effects
of reducing the relative costs of agricultural production in Yemen, high-
lighting the importance of rejuvenating and expanding agricultural production
and yet reducing the funds available for investrment in agriculture.
30.       The potential for growth in agricultural production is consider-
able, especially through the achievement of higher yields by introducing
fertilizer, pesticides, improved seeds and irrigation. Additional growth is
also possible through a switch from lower to higher value crops and, to a
lesser extent, through an increase in the cultivated area by using tractors.
There has already been some success in achieving higher yields and switching
to higher value new crops thanks to both the initiative and responsiveness of
Yemeni farmers and the services provided by the Government and aid-donors in
the areas of applied research, training, extension and credit, in which IDA
has been a major contributor (paragraphs 35-37).  However, much more needs to
be done before the full potential is realized. The proposed project aims at
achieving some of this potential through the strengthening of the agricul-
tural credit delivery system (including extension services) and the provision
of funds needed for on-lending to farmers. The recently approved agricul-
tural research and development project (Cr. 1259--YAR) is intended to improve
applied agricultural research, as well as to contribute to the strengthening
of extension services in the Central Highlands.
31.       Government objectives in the agricultural sector, as identified in
the First Five-Year Plan (1977-81), and reaffirmed in the Second Five-Year
Plan (1982-86) are directed towards reducing dependence on food imports by
increasing agricultural production, raising the nutritional level of the
population, expanding agricultural research, extension and credit, and
training Yemenis in order to build up the country's agricultural institu-
tions. High priority was, therefore, assigned to irrigated agriculture,
mainly in the coastal Tihama plains and the high rainfall areas of the
Southern Uplands and the Central Highlands, and to institution-building,
including training, at all levels.
32.       Actual growth of agriculture fell considerably short of target over
the period of the First Five-Year Plan mainly because economic incentives
worked against agriculture (paragraph 25) and also because the benefits from
most of the projects which started during the Plan period will not materi-
alize until the mid-1980s. Moreover, since the Plan made minimal provisions
for the effects of a higher rate of inflation than expected, rising costs and



the increasing scarcity of labor of all types, the start of some projects,
particularly those with large construction components, has been delayed and
others have been reduced in scope.
Government Agricultural Services
33.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) has overall respon-
sibility for agricultural development including the provision of technical
services.  At its headquarters in Sanaa, MAF consists of six departments,
among them the Agricultural Services Department which has responsibility for
extension. The Department is understaffed and short of trained personnel.
Also under MAF, but directly responsible to the Minister are the Cooperative
and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) (paragraphs 42-51), the Central
Agricultural Research Station, the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
(SURDU) and the Tihama Development Authority (TDA).
34.       Extension activities tend to be related to specific projects usually
involving foreign aid donors. As a result, these activities are concentrated
in the Tihama coastal plains and Southern Uplands, the sites of most foreign-
funded projects. There is also an extension center in Sanaa. The research
farms at Taiz and Zabid are presently used to train extension agents and this
could lead to closer research/extension links. Technical agricultural secon-
dary schools at Ibb, Surdud and Sanaa (the first two are in operation, and
the third is ready for operation) are expected to provide an increasing
number of candidates for the extension in-service training. Agricultural
training abroad has been extensive; since 1974, around 655 students have gone
abroad for bachelor's degrees in agriculture and 65 in veterinary science.
However, the Government has had difficulty in attracting the returning
graduates and even in attracting enrolees to the Ibb secondary school because
of relatively low salaries and lack of sufficient incentives. It is hoped
that the January 1982 increase in civil service salaries will improve the
situation.
IDA Involvement in YAR's Agriculture Sector
35.       The proposed project would be the eleventh IDA-financed project in
agriculture, including fisheries. IDA strategy in assisting agricultural
development has reflected the Government's emphasis on institution building
and on initiating efforts to modernize agriculture in areas with known poten-
tial. IDA's involvement in this sector started in FY73 with the Tihama I
project for the development of Wadi Zabid (Credit 376-YAR), cofinanced with
the Kuwait Fund. The project, which was completed in December 1979, faced
cost overruns and supplementary financing was provided by both cofinanciers
(Credit 376-1). However, the benefits and the economic rate of return of the
project are well above appraisal estimates. The Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) concluded that the project had been quite successful in
achieving its construction, research, extension and credit objectives. Three
more Tihama projects (Credits 805, 880 and 978) were approved between FY78
and FY80. The projects provide a credit and extension package, rural roads,
water supply and irrigation for Wadi Rima and Wadi Mawr. Other external



- 10 -
cofinanciers involved in these projects include the Kuwait Fund, Interna-
tional Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau, the Netherlands, the EEC Special Action Fund and the United
Kingdom.
36.       Other IDA-assisted agricultural projects in YAR include the FY75
Southern Uplands Rural Development Project (SURDP I) (Cr. 545), cofinanced by
the Abu Dhabi Fund; the FY76 Grain Storage and Processing project (Cr. 636),
cofinanced by the Saudi Fund; the FY77 Livestock Credit and Processing
project (Cr. 662), cofinanced by the Kuwait Fund, the Netherlands, and the
United Kingdom; the FY80 Fisheries Development project (Cr. 1025), cofinanced
by the Danish Government; the FY81 SURDP II project (Cr. 1067) cofinanced by
IFAD, the Abu Dhabi Fund, and the Swiss Government; and the FY82 Agricultural
Research and Development project (Cr. 1259), cofinanced by IFAD and the
Italian Government. In addition, IDA was the executing agency for a UNDP
project, Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
(MAF), which was completed in 1979. IDA is at present the executing agency
for a UNDP project which supports agricultural research and provides
institutional support to MAF, and which is cofinanced by IDA and the EEC
Special Action Fund under the Tihama II project.
37.       Early projects have suffered from the effects of cost escalation
and all projects from the shortage of trained counterpart staff. The former
was dealt with by increasing the contributions of the beneficiaries and the
Government (e.g., SURDP I), by securing additional cofinancing (e.g., Grain
Processing and Tihama I), or both. The shortage of Yemeni staff should ease
in the mid-1980s as Yemenis who are at present studying abroad complete their
education and return to YAR. In the interim, to fill counterpart positions,
the Government has been recruiting international staff and permits overseas
recruitment of technicians.
Agricultural Credit
38.       As noted above (paragraphs 28-30), the funds which individuals
(especially the less well-off) have available for investment in agriculture
are gradually shrinking. At the same time, agricultural labor shortages, the
availability of improved inputs and technologies (e.g. for irrigation) and
the stabilization of remittances now make such investments particularly
worthwhile and necessary.
39.       The traditional sources of agricultural credit in YAR have been
merchants, large-scale farmers and, recently, private money-lenders whose
effective interest rates are as high as 100 percent. The history of insti-
tutional credit dates back to 1974, when the Government, at the initiative of
IDA and the Kuwait Fund, created the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) within
the Central Bank of Yemen to finance the credit needs of farmers under the
IDA-assisted Tihama I project (paragraph 35). To provide for the needs of
other farmers, the Government-owned Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) was
established in 1975. The ACF continued to provide for the credit needs of
farmers under all IDA-assisted projects until July 1980 when it was merged



- 11 -
into the ACB. The accounts of the two institutions were integrated with
effect from January 1, 1981 at which time the paid-in capital of the new
institution was YRls 100 million. The new ACB faced an ongoing lack of
liquid funds for making loans. As a result, increasingly severe restrictions
were placed on ACB lending activities, culminating in 1981 with the
suspension of all short-term loans for farm inputs outside IDA-assisted
project areas. By the end of 1981, ACB's paid-in capital totalled YRls 110
million.
40.       In September 1979, the National Cooperative Development Bank (NCDB)
was established with the objective of providing banking services to rural
cooperatives and Local Development Associations (LDAs). NCDB began opera-
tions in January 1980 and its loans to LDAs and cooperatives mainly financed
rural infrastructure projects undertaken by them. NCDB's capital was pro-
vided 60 percent by Government and 40 percent by the Confederation of Yemeni
Development Associations (CYDA), the LDAs' parent body. As of December 31,
1981, NCDB's paid-in capital totalled YRls 60 million. NCDB also received
deposits from cooperatives and LDAs, and these totalled YRls 60.7 million as
of December 31, 1981. During its two years of operations (1980 and 1981)
NCDB made only two loans totalling YRls 3.7 million.
41.       The Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) was established
in January 1982 by the merger of ACB and NCDB. The total paid-in capital of
the new CACB at its inception was YRls 170 million, which meant an easing of
the shortage of loanable funds which ACB had experienced.
The Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB)
42.       The law establishing CACB describes its objectives as providing
short-, medium- and long-term financing for the development of agriculture,
forestry and fisheries and promoting and supporting cooperative associations
and organizations. It is empowered to accept deposits, issue loan guaran-
tees, take equity positions and make loans for the purchase of materials,
equipment and machinery needed for cooperative and agriculture projects.
CACB's authorized capital is YRls 300 million, with YRls 170 million being
paid-up as of January 1, 1982 and the balance to be paid-in by the end of
1984. Eligible borrowers include individuals, cooperatives and LDAs,
although it is anticipated that the majority of CACB loans will be made to
individual farmers. CACB 1/ took over from ACB the responsibility for the
credit aspects of the following IDA-assisted projects; the Tihama
Development Projects II-IV, the Second Southern Uplands Rural Development
Project, the Livestock Credit and Processing Project, the Grain Storage and
Processing Project, and the Fisheries Development Project. To date, CACB has
made loans to less than 5 percent of the farmers in YAR.
1/ In this paragraph and the rest of Part III, reference to operations or
issues at CACB should be understood to refer to ACB in cases where the
situation existed before the creation of CACB in January 1982.



- 12 -
43.        Organization and Management.  Operatiornally CACB is divided into
eight departments, each headed by a Manager who reports to the General
Manager. The Board of Directors is composed of seven members, including the
General Manager.   The Chairman of the Board (who is also the Chief Executive
Officer) is appointed by the President of the Republic on the recommendation
of the Minister of Agriculture and approval of the Council of Ministers.
Lack of adequate and timely information flows from CACB staff to the Board
have prevented it from effectively exercising its policy-making and super-
visory roles. This problem is a reflection of inadequate procedures, the
confusion resulting from the poorly planned and hastily implemented merger of
ACB and NCDB and poorly trained staff, many of whom have little to do due to
overstaffing.
44.        CACB's headquarters is at Sanaa and it has nine branch offices in
six of YAR's eleven governorates. Supervision of these branch offices is
ineffective, again due to inadequate procedures and ill-trained staff, and so
the proposed project would provide technical assistance and training in
several key areas (paragraph 55). The Government wants CACB to extend its
operations and has made available the land needed for an office and housing
at Saadah. The proposed project provides funds to construct and equip these
facilities.
45.        Staffing and Training.  The training needs of CACB staff at all
levels are considerable. Although the senior management personnel hold
university degrees, most lack experience in agricultural credit banking.
Among middle management personnel, about half have completed only secondary
school, while 30 percent of the clerical and accounts staff have completed
only primary or preparatory (junior-high) school. High turnover was previ-
ously a serious problem at CACB, due to low salaries, but the October 1980
ACB salary revision brought its salaries into line with civil service
scales. In recognition of the need for staff training, CACB recently created
a training division in the Planning, Training and Statistics Department to
develop training policy and programs. This new division will, however,
require technical assistance if it is to achieve its objectives.
46.       The Accounting System.  CACB's accounts do not provide the infor-
mation needed for proper management of the bank's portfolio, such as the
purpose for which each loan was disbursed and an up-to-date repayment record
for each loan. This weakness results from two main factors: the use of a
system (the Government "unified accounting system") which is not specifically
suited to the requirements of CACB and inadequately trained staff. The
government has recently relaxed the application of the unified accounting
system to CACB and other public entities and CACB management recognizes the
need to modernize and improve its accounting system. The proposed project
would provide for consultants to design a computerized accounting system
tailored to CACB's needs, and an expert financial controller to oversee
implementation of the system.
47.        Operating Policies, Procedures and Performance.  CACB's draft
lending policy guidelines include the following: (a) the loan amount should
not exceed 75 percent of the total cost of the project; (b) disbursements are



- 13 -
made directly to suppliers of goods wherever possible; and (c) no loans are
made to defaulters on previous loans. The security requirement is generally
substantial, including a promissory note for the full amount of the loan, a
land security for loans over YRls 20,000 and two guarantors for smaller loans.
48.       Appraisal of loan applications is the responsibility of a CACB
credit supervisor, who is generally a secondary school graduate without ade-
quate relevant training or experience. Decisions regarding loan approval
appear to be based almost entirely on the availability of adequate security,
with little use being made of other data collected and without, for example,
calculation of projected cash flows or returns on investment. Similarly,
supervision of loans after they have been made has been erratic. As a
result, the loan recovery rate has deteriorated from over 90 percent in the
mid and late 1970s to 55 percent in 1981. To help remedy these problems, the
proposed project would assist in developing improved policies and procedures
for loan appraisal, supervision and recovery, and in training CACB staff in
their use. In addition, CACB would adopt a set of policy and procedure
guidelines acceptable to IDA. Amongst those guidelines would be the ones
listed in the preceding paragraph as well as the following: (a) for seasonal
loans of up to YRls 20,000 to tenant farmers, the expected crop would
constitute adequate security without the need for guarantors; and (b) for
individual project loans, the minimum acceptable financial rate of return
would be 12 percent. Adoption of a statement of policies and procedures
acceptable to IDA would be a condition of disbursement of the credit compo-
nent of the IDA Credit (Project Agreement, Section 2.02; Development Credit
Agreement, paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1).
49.       CACB has undertaken loan guarantee obligations for YRls 85.5 mil-
lion with respect to a poultry company and a dairy company, and has contrib-
uted YRls 24 million to the equity capital of the poultry company. These
undertakings diverted CACB from its normal lending operations and reduced the
funds available for that purpose, and the Government has recently assumed
these guarantee obligations and the equity participation. In future neither
total loan guarantees nor total equity participations would exceed 10 percent
of CACB's unencumbered paid-up capital and CACB would not hold more than
10 percent of the equity of any individual enterprise (Project Agreement,
Section 3.03). In order to ensure that CACB concentrates on its lending
operations, CACB would phase out its farm machinery sales activities, and
would extend its farm input supply operations through independent village
agents only (i.e., not through its branch offices) (Project Agreement,
Section 2.11).
50.       While its loan portfolio grew from YRls 14.7 million in 1976/77 to
YRls 87.7 million in 1981, CACB's net income was negative in every year but
one (1979/80). The main remedies for this problem are increasing the loan
recovery rate, improving the efficiency of operations by reducing the average
administrative cost per Rial lent (which can be achieved by eliminating over-
staffing and providing adequate training), and augmenting revenues by increas-
ing the size of the loan portfolio. Regarding the loan recovery rate and
administrative costs, there is scope for improvement in management procedures
(including the accounting system) and staff training (paragraphs 45-48).



- 14 -
Regarding the loan portfolio, provided that funds for on-lending can be
obtained by CACB, the loan portfolio is planned t:o grow from YRIs 87.7 mil-
lion in 1981 to YRls 502.9 million in 1988, with interest income increasing
from YRls 13.3 million to YRls 46.6 million over the same period.
51.       Interest Rates.  At present CACB interest rates are 9 percent per
annum on seasonal loans and 10 percent on longer-term loans (over one year),
and CACB will continue to charge interest at rates not lower than these
(Project Agreement, Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 1). The YAR inflation rate
was about 3.7 percent in 1981 and is estimated at 8 percent in 1982 and so
the current CACB interest rates are positive in real terms. If these interest
rates were to remain unchanged over the life of the project, they would
remain positive because YAR's projected inflation rates for the project years
(1983-86) are 8 percent for 1983 and 7 percent thereafter. CACB's interest
rates would be reviewed by Government by June 30, 1984 and at least every two
years thereafter under terms of reference acceptable to IDA and the results
of the reviews would be discussed with IDA (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 4.03).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
52.       The proposed project is the first full-scale agricultural credit
project to be supported by IDA in the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), although it
would build on the experience gained from credit components of previous
IDA-assisted agricultural related projects (paragraph 39). It was prepared
by the YAR Government with the help of the FAO/CP. The preparation report,
which was submitted to IDA in December 1981, served as the basis for project
appraisal which took place in January/February 1982. A post-appraisal
mission visited YAR in May 1982. Negotiations for the proposed credit were
held in Washington from November 1-4, 1982. The YAR delegation was headed by
Mr. Fathi Salem, Deputy Minister of Development. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Yemen Arab Republic - Agricultural Credit Project" (No. 4102-YAR
dated November 18, 1982) is being circulated separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in the Credit and Project Summary and in
Annex III. A map of the project sites is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
53.       The proposed project primarily is designed to strengthen the insti-
tutional capability of the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB)
and to increase its ability to provide credit needed for viable agricultural
development initiatives. It will also assist the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries (MAF) in the establishment of extension centers in the border
governorates of Saadah and Hajjah. These objectives would be attained by (a)
assisting CACB and MAF to construct the infrastructure necessary to support
credit and extension activities; (b) providing technical assistance and
training in several key areas of CACB operations; and (c) providing
funds to assist CACB to expand its lending program.



- 15 -
Infrastructure Development
54.       The Government wants CACB eventually to extend its operations to
all governorates in YAR, and has made available land for a CACB branch at
Saadah. The proposed project provides funds for the construction and
furnishing of a multi-purpose building, to house offices, living quarters,
and a staff rest house in Saadah city. Because provision of agricultural
credit requires effective support and assistance from agricultural extension
services, the proposed project also provides for the construction, furnishing
and equipping of three MAF extension centers in Saadah governorate and three
in the Hajjah governorate (to support the two existing CACB branches in that
governorate). Each extension center will consist of offices and staff hous-
ing and Government will staff these extension centers with the appropriate
staff by December 31, 1983 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02). In
addition, in order to improve CACB's financial management, funds are provided
for the purchase of computer hardware and software for CACB headquarters to
assist with the computerization of the accounting function.
Technical Assistance and Training
55.       In order to help overcome the deficiencies in CACB management and
staffing, the proposed project provides for technical assistance and training.
Internationally recruited experts would provide about 27 man-months of short-
term consultancies (less than 12 months each) and about 15 man-years for
6 long-term advisors in organization and methods; staff training; planning
and research, especially regarding credit needs; general management; loan
appraisal, supervision and recovery; accounting and financial management; and
livestock/poultry husbandry (Project Agreement, Schedule 2). In addition,
the Ministry of Development (Central Planning Organization) would survey
agricultural credit needs as part of its planned semi-annual multipurpose
surveys. All consultants and advisors would work closely with the staff
training advisor in order to provide in-house training to appropriate CACB
staff members. The technical assistance for staff training would consist of
a training development specialist (9 man-months) and a qualified trainer
(2 man-years). The training specialist would advise on training needs and
design suitable training courses and materials for in-house training of CACB
staff. The trainer would be responsible for the carrying out of the training
program. This program would consist of job oriented short courses of one to
six weeks' duration and staff at all levels would receive appropriate
training in credit operations and/or management. In addition, about six
staff would receive training abroad for about three months each. All
internationally recruited experts would have terms of reference,
qualifications, experience and conditions of employment (including
recruitment dates) acceptable to IDA (Project Agreement, Section 2.03).
Credit Finance
56.       In order to (a) help meet the need and demand for increased agri-
cultural credit in YAR (paragraph 38), and (b) help CACB realize an operating
profit by increasing its interest income (paragraph 50), the proposed project
includes $6 million to assist in the financing of CACB's lending program over



- 16 -
the three-year project period. Being the first such financing of CACB by
IDA, it has been kept to a modest size (representing only 5 percent of CACB's
projected loan disbursements during the project period). Certain restric-
tions would be placed on the use of these funds. Firstly, financing of
seasonal loans under the IDA credit in any given region would be limited to
financing expenditures over and above those made out of the proceeds of such
loans made by CACB in the preceding year (Project Agreement, Schedule 1).
Loans to any individual or entity would be limited in total to YRls 300,000
and at least 50 percent of the funds would be made available for lending in
the governorates where IDA will be assisting in establishing extension
centers; either under this project (Saadah and Hajjah), or under the
Agricultural Research and Development project and the proposed Central
Highlands Agricultural Development project (Dhamar) (Project Agreement,
Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 1). The foreign exchange risk associated with
CACB operations will be borne by the Government.
Project Implementation
57.       The proposed project would be implemented over a period of three
years. The CACB would be the implementing agency for all components except
the construction and equipping of the six agricultural extension centers, for
which MAF would be responsible. The consultancy in organization and methods
(paragraph 55) is being financed under a Project Preparation Facility advance
and it is hoped that this study will be well advanced before credit
effectiveness.
Monitoring and Evaluation
58.       The Planning, Training and Statistics Department at CACB is
responsible for monitoring and evaluating the activities of the institution.
Due to procedural and staff weakness, it has not been able to fulfill this
responsibility. The Planning and Research Advisor to be provided under the
project, in cooperation with the Organization and Methods consultants and the
Trainer, would strengthen the department to enable it to monitor and evaluate
both project-related activities and CACB's overall operations. Specifically,
the department would prepare quarterly progress reports for CACB senior
management, and IDA would receive copies of those reports (Project Agreement,
Section 2.06(b)).
Project Costs and Financing
59.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at $12.7 million equivalent, of which about 61 percent, or $7.7 million
equivalent, represents the foreign exchange component. The project is exempt
from taxes and duties. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been ap-
plied to all project costs except the credit component. The base date for
cost estimates is November 1982, the date of negotiations for the proposed
credit. Price contingencies of 8 percent for 1983 and 7 percent for 1984-
1986 have been applied to all local currency and foreign exchange costs except
for the credit component. Total price contingencies amount to 7 percent of



- 1 7 -
base costs plus physical contingencies, and price contingencies plus physical
contingencies amount to 11 percent of the base cost. Short-term consultants'
services have been costed at $9,000 per man-month, long-term advisors'
services at $7,000 per man-month and overseas studies at $3,000 per man-
month, all including travel, subsistence and overhead.
60.       The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 7.5 million (approximately $8.0
million equivalent) would finance 63 percent of total project costs. It
would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost and 6 percent of local
costs. The balance of project costs, $4.7 million, would be met by the
Government.
61.       The proposed IDA credit would be made on standard IDA terms to the
Government of YAR. Funds provided by the Government to CACB and MAF for
technical assistance and infrastructure development would be on a grant basis
while the credit component funds would be lent by the Government to CACB at a
rate not exceeding 2 percent per annum, repayable over 25 years including a
five-year grace period. These terms and conditions would be incorporated
into a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and CACB, the
execution and ratification of which in a form satisfactory to IDA would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.01(c) and 6.01(b)).
Procurement
62.       All procurement would be in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" and draft tender
documents for all contracts expected to cost over $100,000 would be submitted
to IDA for approval before bid invitations are issued. Vehicles, costing
about $0.3 million including contingencies, would be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) except that for individual contracts
costing less than $0.1 million, other procedures satisfactory to IDA could be
used. Civil works contracts (the cost of which total $1.6 million), because
of the small size and scattered nature of the buildings to be constructed,
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures which
are satisfactory to IDA and do not exclude foreign bidders. The same proce-
dures would apply to the procurement of furniture and equipment ($0.2 mil-
lion), except for the computer hardware and related software ($0.4 million),
which would be procured in a manner satisfactory to IDA on the basis of the
recommendations of the consultants to be hired to advise on computerizing
CACB's accounting system. The goods to be financed under the subloans to
farmers and organizations (totalling $6.0 million) will be small and varied
and so would be procured through normal commercial supply channels, which
offer adequate competition. All consultants and advisors (the cost of whose
services is estimated to total $1.9 million) would be recruited and hired in
accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers."
Disbursement
63.       The proceeds of the proposed credit, to be disbursed over about
three and one-half years, would finance (a) furniture and equipment,



- 18 -
70 percent of expenditures; (b) vehicles and computer hardware and software,
100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90 percent of local expenditures for
items procured locally; (c) consultants, advisors' services and overseas
training, 100 percent of expenditures; (d) loans made by CACB, 70 percent of
amounts disbursed; and (e) civil works, 60 percent of expenditures.
Accounts and Audit
64.       Separate project accounts and appropriate accounting procedures
would be established within CACB and MAF to record all project-related
financial transactions, including subloans made by CACB out of project funds
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(a); Project Agreement, Section
3.01(a)). Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would audit the project
related accounts at MAF and CACB's overall accounts annually and submit their
report to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01; Project Agreement, Section 3.02).
Moreover, CACB would submit quarterly statements of accounts to IDA in
conjunction with its progress reports.
Project Benefits and Risks
65.       The proposed project's main benefit would be to strengthen CACB as
an institution and thereby establish a solid foundation for the ongoing pro-
vision of agricultural credit to Yemeni farmers to enable them in turn to
finance the irrigation schemes, tractors, improved seeds, fertilizers and
other inputs which they need to expand their production. Farm budget analy-
sis shows that the economic rate of return to such investments would be of
the order of 20-30 percent. It is projected that CACB's net income would
become positive by 1984 and that CACB will continue to show a profit in
subsequent yeas. The project would also help strengthen the agricultural
extension system's ability to provide advice to farmers in outlying areas.
The major risk relates to the problem of credit recovery. This risk is
minimized by the strong commitment of the Government and CACB management to
recovering public funds lent to farmers and the inclusion of technical
assistance and training in the proposed project to support this effort. The
CACB management intends to use both education and en'Eorcement to ensure that
its borrowers repay their loans promptly.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and CACB and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effec-
tiveness are: (i) the execution and ratification of a subsidiary loan agree-
ment between and by the Government and CACB; and (ii) the ratification of the
Project Agreement by CACB (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01). A



- 19 -
condition of disbursement of the credit finance component of the credit is
adoption by CACB of a statement of policies and procedures acceptable to the
Association (Development Credit Agreement, paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1;
Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 18, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                      ANNEX I
TABLE 3.4                              ~~~Page  1. of  5
YEMEN, ASREiXUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET            _
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF               RErERENCE GROUPS (WtIrlTEE AVENCE9
AREA fiTHOUSAND sq. XM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIATE)-
TOTAL             193.0                                                       M-ETD  INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      97.9                                  MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA b           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA b CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     ..           ..     430.0                1253,6                    1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALEhT)        6.7         15.3      57.6                 713.5                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4163.0         5258.0    7039.0/c
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3.4           6.0      10.3                  47.3                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          26.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2130
POPULATION DENS ETY
PER SQ. KM.                        21.3        27.0       35.0                  35.8                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      43.1        54.0       69.8                 420.9                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.4        43.0       45.4                  44.3                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                          54.4        53.9       51.5                  52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2         3.1        3.2                   3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.3          2.3       2.9                   2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               8.1         H.0        8.3                   4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.7        48.8       46.7                  41.2                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      28.9        26.4       22.8                  12.2                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.3       3.2                   2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OPFfOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          119.0        84.0       92.0                 100.4                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    90.3        75.9       81.8/d               108.5                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           68.9        55.4       59.57i                71.9                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAAL AND PULSE       17.6        13.7       19.07i                18.0                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      60.4           ..      50.0                  15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.8         38.5       42.2                  56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                      211.6           ..     190.0                 104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         4.0        4.0/e                59.1                     65.6
URBAN                                ..        45.0       30.071                83.1                     78.9
RURAL                                ..         2.0        2.071                39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        .,                    ..                     59.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         130093.8     24373.9   11673.3                 4015.5                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..           ..    4582.7                1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2726.3          ..    1699.8                  641.7                    477.4
URBAN                                ..           ..     226.1                 538.3                    679.8
RURAL                                ..           ..    6752.9                2403.3                   :903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..      14.3                  25.5                     27.3
HOUISING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..        5. O/
URBAN                                ..,                   4.2Tf,
RURAL                                                      6.07
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..           8/
URBAN                                            ,.        1 f
RURAL                                ..           ..       3.1 e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                *-           *-      56.5/f-8
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN   ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAqES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           NORTH EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0        12.0       34.1                   88.7                    104.3
MALE                  14.0         23.0       59.4                 104.5                     106.4
FEMALE                 0.4          2.0        8.6                  72.0                     103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.1          1.0       4.0                   39.7                     41.3
MALE                    ..          2.0        7.0                  49.3                      40.4
FEMALE                  ..          0.1        1.1                  29.0                      41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   2.7/h          2.0       4.6/1                 10.1                      33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             44.7/h      51.1       3B.7/S                 34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                           22.9/h      24.0       18.57                 23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          2/5/h       10.0/i    21.0                   43.3                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                   17.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..        15.374    15.4                  131.3                     27(
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            *-           *-       0.1                  44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         10.7        ..                   31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       0.9/d                  1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TUTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1263.3      1481.0    1753.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.7         4.5        5.4                  10.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.0         79.0      75.0                   42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   7.0         9.0       11.0                  27.8                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.3         28.2      24.9                   26.0                      33.6
HALE                                  57.7         55.0      49.8                   46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                                 2.3          2.5       2.5                    5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.6       1.9                    1.9                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAI                                 ..          ..      366.0                 279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                 178.6                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                 403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      157.0                 285.6                     371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                   30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
anong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Resident population, includes migrant workers abroad for less than a year.
/d   1977; /e 1976; /f In the major cities of Sanaa, Tais and Hodaidah; /I 1975; /h 1962; /I 1973; LI 1972.
May, 1982



- 22 -                                                                                   ANNEX I
2? 10010. lrhCtpOPSPage    3                                                            of    S
aloe    .00.4 ororo  rera  ore  otoar ftotao..rlaa  *0 -bd t.>-   -o,oarne-    aoo_.. oraot.ett.r,.                 ...00.0tOri -                        o         rttr
obd Ott aalo      ottraefOr                  lnt t.           2.tpnto               optr    fldoOd..    IIK0.I 7tno  >o.    08.oot                      r r.           oo
ott.   taittot  0  a am  5505  Oe . ato?  504   ataraia  OOrop..  _.L.....                     E1                                                                    II'l
'NERG     APY    (ltr-gOa   oapS 7osaaERaAPatAasst.  <ort    oorpoa                       O                  da      r   l    oor1dd    to'rl t.uo--Itooaao    or..aalt
,Idtdtos    ororoo  ant   sOa  4fr,n..:988    aai,,.90                                                     o   aoLa   enes00  onooS ooo  t.oatyo00'a Oeo 
:97, .a  180   ora                                                                         0.00.  os.att.t  ortee  toaot, to    noto  oter  t-pIaOS  aoa
ooooo  ad   rt   IIr 000d0   tot   .  .or.        a  Oia-         o    os 
190811 b00L'rMD  p"T" 3TAT20Th      aJ    .treoorO    nt..1aato   o..ro:ooCr   roooprloOod    oop op.                                                                            is.taoas
.nd.otoa,oarotoe,  dcro   41  An.toro  ~,, L..s    do    97.hit. -        o.                  odo.doot00.                  .   f    t.   >.o  ¼ p   ttoo    od.oatr
Oonboraaoo  ooaauiolao,e.soo,   90¼0A,-d-fO.otlte.Lto.OO .oo.ot.ts0   .ooot-l0ooooaI.t.t.
tata-0.a  tooo - -jo    IrjO.ad-Taotoot                                                                                                                      tio      t 00r010aga
L, ly  i II                 -d~tro  toopoto-s-.t.tlad  on       -Ie otohar ..
rPZ.1t   to07.0...f..... 0..
tana                                                                                         Oreodge ott......o....   ..00p:   pooaor 10 . LtO-tiot   -oot.o    1-toal.d td --  oId rro
a5p,aonr tell 1 1960,tii 1970.h salI .1980    aL ta I,t-    rotno.  forc troiikatOa                                                           rtt
PotolotOdro Protetrttot-                                                                       ttsra ia.or.s  ot E'     an   -r  oio I           -11   Li.ra i.iao   oa    asaad
natal poulntr .         gett  sa  od,    cr          rs  09h,      Prr0100raas.'h.lloe   oipan.al.    nalbge030Eo tDUCATO tnoooei  a
Pral codo Lsiatspi.  fat P,rslo    Ipt.   noEbttntsIo.i   aos                                        dCpLtd  psrLOa.
ardParot tptred.  otL hnao-oa pIl       ptly                                                 04 t  tet toro1 :~l -&oonhtot-00
oat.anaropl.-lafot 1-1Itsttfaa.popo-lat-o Itere  o-  ..o  ronelOePady.l   -oI  -j ...d.   , E ot and.. 0 as0-K-to ta  000-0y  no.. t  7E.a,
aiaoaio. Tis -    aotaId   tl   atra Iat.oy   oedc  oe0                                        ro.aychlssppolttn  tILoI.r ...k s  rO ldrnage  8--1
.h.e.oer    ol0   oo  ttPpoo   lrpt.ja   atognr   dfpat  aa ...ed   op  bofpro   Th-or  at. ppII isr   aotbotL                                                               a
20nt 0rtaloo      d onset  eoan to.   Th ianatontsrprLsooo             Aa                        Portastoroeelo.a   0000 r-tt.daa                                           ecn
00Sh  oar000  ad   it  prro  dolneofPstoltotat  o  r lae-SrIodyatol-0 tal                                                                    -p.tale. .od .r  .a.   -.oo .a ta tIt . ...a...t
asa.ae   0.oabttoira970antotooo    0   y9os  pbet   na3nttt
Pncaltotaa  Ocratit                                                                                cnn-dW.Id   b-  E  I.d  i     d.PI
oo-;1960, 1978  aord 1979 dat. I.tiL-te ha   ps-to - III.sso  and   o                                                                             0 - Total .0-ta  -oraote   00
aao AA.to   s t-aaor   (as-tat) - Chifld-a   0b    et)0onoo-e   .15- 1     IPt lItY and  -totosp   anl  do b04                                    y ooba-  ofea  Lat         .I thi
tsin    80    80  tt10da.                                                                   Aoo.Itlotar.tntI.I. J-tett  -  ooo                .do    ol   oesdndaia
Gaoa  onO sI-th Rate  ottna-  I -  o - tSAnaa   pant  rates  ci  -ott  sd-                          aaPer--oag   of tttd1 took  po.,- lot oo..  n    10 ydraIP.e a.doa
pear popolatban  tot L950_-90, 1960-00   an   1018
Popalat,b GOtt Oaah  ae  tron         h-ran         a-o-8at               soa    ofato-  p.po-       M09Sl7Tt09
CLat ions far 1.950-41,090-           td17-0                                                           P.a. .raSe Cot   oa  ono.a   oolo00        zare    ae.are    aa
"rud    ,,hr I't. (pa! touan) - doAal I ELna0Ito b            ostb - raeat   r id -petaaaanr.gls  nos0lPtptns o ...oa.a.blatat.tlaRsas
apeoI I..  1960. 1970   n  1980 data..s1iateilo
tada tea RttPat  (pathI  .Oosdd   - Pootas  d.atha Par obotostd  of aid-peer                            talcRaton 00          I Er totoadpni 00    02ope0 aao                            o   ai
pp.ta;1860, 0970, and  dOldat..Ooaooeotaa                                                                                    olcprtro.o    tppaait   tae    a
ter  onalrepeiocnot Pt Od If are adpe t....i  pfaaonLgaaaoi  t   ar                             3055   00. a         IPtc     data  o   rcn    0roo ntbecmabLe                    "Ia
tObooytstae;saoily P. lo-er.eas    niglt  90   90    a16.sa  ocuatm"'  fttrolehe                                                   oloaInIa Ito.1,..
Fabo   trL    i-reaas    oos  rOtosros -d,  loub.:   oone   f  tnpor                                   T  aoOot    bpa         1it h.otarli-ooba  boo0ooLtp'attata.
oftettarbotaausdtaiY                     osa..       oalfml    boot    taa.                            aea    o. tOttd sa    oolt10   o  oeaottsstr    ietr
PaoInPanlg      aseC etetcfsrtld tit)-Otottg    f satId                                        n0moot   n   opoo    n,r~ern.no   0et   a   oatr
L0000f fUhhIg                                                                                              ote di 0  If  It eppt ;at
ponooritb  of all fond  IobOtaa    Ptd,noatoaseadPi LId                                                 t Otbans aP.,  tofo   thP       er    tlbo    ..sio   adit-n   ien
be ot aslsotata  year haete.  combin Esa oos  r-saogod   lg                                  L.gso-r an    adoie -   Y-.a
iaa artad  Load.        ggrsst  potadilan  odeaaftn.a.t..1. Ibe, cotf.00080000
FOOD  oAtDITRITIONaoonaoislant.faoseta-a                                 ondta                             atm    forti   aatdaiota   Oo  coat0toeai.    etodos,it.
per77 tOp.Isongibeli.u          a    iotab.    tmstfRO) paodbon foa, Impartsa.                            o- toApat Attatnd68  170anc1e   o.o.rn.I
olontbtlas used  ft Pond prona_eLog..a         d  .ose.tadfer,atot      Oaqide               Parfotnoads d pirnesth    aonfr    .. Y.-ag   Paraty dra-la   dLb
anne nsa  estleaed  by 810 basadda phyetlagt.ot  nnsd.  ca  narea   octt-                  isniap  a  paroana4t of   atal  tta    oroa..800.- :80dt-d 180.data
foaoeshald Osoel; 196145. 1970 and  1877. data.           .  160d..                       Total        197r  andor0c    fnd
'ltnoYs. o  6-LIb1damonab proteta  pee.I ap and.00 pra   of s..sa   ato09 p,root  or  1960, 1970a  .ttas  ro    c00o    10   ats-a   ta
Wold ?aa  tototey; 199y5   1870 and I.py1077 data                                                       to  ate  otal   Oo       for ...I1b.d18    .
Par      -d hean .o...i aptc -rau .ai..     taEple   -Prten   dpyof-ra   s
ono toanI.t-     n  posshagae   a   a,;918   1077 and 1977 data.77902f19600019ft                                  -df9b?fot
Ifoil E-U.stn   Death~ I    ot  7 tet      p rh de ) - oaoa ..t.        prtaoadI                           orrtI~lPlst   roi   ht   0 0.  n  rood .-   Pnce b.ibs
ajt  rOi  I-npie.,  o orldro  I  nbtil agIrf        ,ttat    aaatgao-                           S-anot.roet0   entt   aoo f2 patnSat . and.poorest 00 pear
tnfiadatadaef.d  fau  lfe-tblia;h1960  1970  an..d.18  dgtL.                                   of Oooatd.9  o.....d:                      111ip                             P     ~y
ot    Ifto    1960 1970 It.    ,t.         -d     . sad  1980 oats,                               and196 oool 9or OnsoPdItadan            130.-.oottorttI.
dl ae pe  thossnaibna1  SOthl  W1960. 97  ad108  fata. J          Th.on.i poSd    toota                                                  I F.ie-O P. oe   Isoe  relno anih  a a.MAo
hoie5  a  ad    Wter 7 rema I f 75arooIft ton .. toal -toa , ed  rora&        - he-                  ntfd inL-tv  adetotel  utan-10  C.'Mono.b   o-fn    eotttsi
bar of petl  (banal         .. 4apr  and roil  witdh.r .aiaaaaeelFA cEce 004 shade                      oPoDa.I d.yRi:_.    5-6     .
ratetdo      1s9a otpoccn    oeoig    pfg     i   notat7a0lo)tt                                          ora  -ols1o   poobEan   no-o.e  t-i0   ooni               foeaeprcpt
oah   nnl lennaaeth 1L        ptytr  h   ho(apaoraaatott hehldnd...a.                                                    Pato.o  pnoaon   t30   ndcrL) oh   ath.tob
Odaher a..d.id papa tnl, Irta.   nodror IMO  197trod  1980odosaotspeaa
peorrge   toho   tsa 01051  Po--anon .-. ~f  yri.a oopot    ney .-,L0b                                          L -Io-s-b...l   L                                                  :
to    oltD.aa  704 dtepa.b a9 ab or. nitnd..atam...f oo                 Icee
and   set-nae    .,ynaet-aru e.i.. d  e tooI dash of pit. pInie   ante lb- .E.    .     bl-P-                                  b. 
iarlato    os  h ...tind 11    onataat  a   potdto   toltgpy-                                                                                    O.ot.ooharodtooo 0 lana Oiolo
o  -ar   qalf te  Pros a... estIa   colNooi-a adustit   tenI  .b"                                                                diIooo-or nool             -f- a   -tnIso-lts    aLm.
poaoft  no  OrsosPeeo.               Papulatfo Ob.odid by   saeo   tPane09                                                                                   0019
tae   ra  eeb   oadeanres   eetnatnot.,,paiotltotseY
roiig   toly fabties    r..-      I,                                              ,..                    ,                .                                                b.-



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1981 1/                (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)           FY1977-81      FY1981
GNP at Market Prices 2/              3228                     6             1
GDP at Market Prices                 2877                     6             5
Gross Domestic Investments            1284                   26            3
Gross National Savings                518                      1         -23
Exports of GNFS                        251                   24           30
Imports of GNFS                      2141                    13            6
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln       %    Thousand                 Us          %
Agriculture              820      32         830        69          988       47
Industry                206        8          54         5         3815      182
Services               1492       60         318        26         4691     224
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2518      100        1202       100        2095      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRls Mln)
% of GNP
1977/78  1978/79   1979/80   1981        1981
Current Receipts                1985      2161      2755     3277       22
Current Expenditure             1250      1847      2531     3253       22
Current Deficit/Surplus          735       314       224        24       -
Capital Expenditure             1167      2618      2492     3807       26
External Assistance, Net         691      1904       976     2437       17
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRls Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                    5081      6273      7350     7868
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -990        -609      1199     4039
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                        1555     2199      2830      3234
------Percentages or Index Numbers------
Money Supply at % of GNP          53        53        52       54
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                  45        23        17        7
Consumer Price Index          17        22        11        7
1/  Provisional.  The fiscal year was from July 1 to June 30 through
1979/80, then it was changed to coincide with the calendar year as of
January 1981.
2/  Not including private transfers by Yemeni migrants whose duration of
stay abroad exceeds one year.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln)
1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1981
Exports of Goods, fob              7         3         7       10
Imports of Goods, cif           -801    -1250    -1546    -1748
Trade Balance                   -794    -1247    -1543    -1738
Non Factor Services, net         -69       -36        --      -51
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                   1039       833     1098       788
Balance on Current Account       176     -450      -445    -1001
M & LT Capital, net              176       416      229       542
Official Grants                100       312      112       337
Official Loans, net 1/          76       104      117       205
Disbursements                (81)    (114)    (124)    (262)
Repayments                   (-5)    (-10)      (-7)    (-57)
Other Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net   73         162      184       128
Increase in Reserves (-)        -425     -128         32      331
Gross Reserves (end FY)         1085      1213     1180       850
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT (1981)                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1979/80)
Total Outstanding             1747          Cotton and Cotton Products        14
of which disbursed            1094          Coffee                            9
Hides and Skins                  12
DEBT SERVICE RATIO (1981) 2/                Biscuits and Confectionary        15
All Other Commodities            50
100
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                    1.3
1/ Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
'compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/ Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EMIDB
August 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP-OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of September 30, 1982 - $ Million)
A.  Statement of IDA Credits 1/
Amount
Credit                                                            (less cancellations)
Number Year       Borrower               Purpose                  - IDA   Undisbursed
Eight credits fully disbursed                         73.3
465   1974 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Estate                   2.3        0.3
611   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Education II                        8.0       0.4
636   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Grain Storage and Processing    5.2            1.4
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0           0.8
670   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Water Supply II              10.0        2.9
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                    6.0        1.1
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                       11.5       4.9
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II              10.5       3.9
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution                 10.0       3.8
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III             15.0      13.8
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                      10.0        6.2
950   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0           11.9
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV               5.5       4.6
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development              17.0      16.4
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic S. Uplands Rural Dev. II           17.0 2/   15.7 2/
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Electrification           12.0      10.5
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Development             12.0      11.9
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development            15.0      14.4
1203   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                       12.0       12.0
1216   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geothermal Exp.   2.0            2.0
1259 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agr. Research and Dev.              6.0       6.0
1267 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Fourth Highways                     7.0       7.0
1294 4/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Health                             10.5      10.5
Total                                                294.8      162.4
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                                294.8
Total undisbursed                                               162.4
1/  Excluding $7 million credit for textile rehabilitation project cancelled
on October 31, 1979.
2/  Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and
the dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1982, for the undisbursed
amounts.
3/  Not yet effective.
4/  Signed on November 3, 1982; not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year             Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice       Dairy Products        2.4       -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                           2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                 -               _
Total commitments now held by IFC                 2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C. Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were
approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative
expert. The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and
$425,000.
D. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1974; Closing-Date: December 31,
1982.
Phase I of the Sanaa Industrial Estate has been completed. Key
staff for the Industrial Estate Development Authority have been appointed
and advisory services for operations and civil engineering have been
secured. Feasibility studies for the planned industrial estates in Taiz
and Hodeidah are underway.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaulation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date; October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of all project components has been completed; the
grain silo at Hodeidah and the bakeries at Sana'a and Taiz are in opera-
tion. However, some of the warehouses remain empty. Cost overruns on
construction have been met by the Saudi Fund for Development and the YAR
Government. The training program is underway and technical assistance is
also continuing,
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date; August 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The infrastructure being constructed under the project, including
a dairy farm, a fattening farm, a range research center, slaughterhouses
and butcher stalls, is being completed for eventual handover to the Yemeni
organizations, about one year behind schedule. Five of the six vacancies
for expatriate project staff have been filled. Problems are still being
encountered in the recruitment of local staff.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the
water and sewerage systems have been awarded and construction of the water
system has been completed. Implementation of the sewerage component of the
project is behind schedule because of the delayed award of the civil works
contract and changed location of treatment plant site. The closing date
was extended to allow time for acquisition of the treatment plant site.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
All physical works and most of the technical assistance have been
completed, about eleven months behind appraisal schedule. There has been a
delay in recruiting the two remaining experts but PMAC is continuing its
efforts to find suitable candidates.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Implementation is about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in arranging cofinancing and subsequent difficulties in implementing
a suitable training program. The road overlay construction has been com-
pleted. Most of the equipment provided under the project has arrived and



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
construction of three of the five weighing stations is nearing completion.
Implementation of a comprehensive training program is underway. Proposals
have been invited from consultants to carry out the road master plan study.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5
million Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date; March 5, 1979; Closing
Date; June 30, 1984
After an initial slow start, progress on all components relating
to Wadi Rima has picked up with some of them nearing completion. The
agricultural extension service is proceeding satisfactorily. Work on the
village water supply schemes is expected to start before the end of 1982.
TDA headquarters buildings in Hodeidah are nearing completion and are
expected to be in use in early 1983.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Implementation is about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in closing the finance gap and in awarding major contracts for the
supply of equipment and materials. The rural electrification interim study
has been completed. YGEC's training center is operating but experiencing
some problems relating to lack of text books. Training abroad is
proceeding but not at an adequate pace to meet YGEC's pressing need for
trained staff.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date; September 30, 1985
After a delay in declaring the credit effective and selecting
project consultants for engineering work, implementation is now underway.
The design of major engineering works is now progressing at a fast pace and
tender documents for the construction of buildings have been issued. Farm
management consultants have been appointed. Training of extension agents
has started and assignments in the project area are being made. A project
manager has been selected. Procurement of equipment for agricultural
services has been initiated.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date; December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986
Civil works equipment procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
Three project institutions are operational; the remaining institution is
due to open in November 1982. The implementation of technical assistance
has been slow due to lack of qualified candidates for training programs.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1''-; Effectiveness Date: January 13, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 198L'
Tardy preparation of the hydrological study and tender documents
together with slippage of the well drilling program have delayed the water
component. Drilling has been completed in Ibb and in Dhamar. Because of
the delay in appointing the civil works consultants, project implementation
is now one year behind schedule.
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Contracts for the construction of irrigation structures have been
awarded and significant progress on the works has been achieved. The sand
dune stabilization program has not been started due to difficulties in the
recruitment of staff. The staff required for the rural uplift program has
been appointed.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
After initial delays, project implementation has somewhat
improved. A fisheries advisor and a project manager have been appointed.
The construction and construction supervision contracts have been signed.
Vessels for trial fishing are due to arrive in November 1982.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project;
$17.0 Million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date; June 16,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Agricultural extension, rural water supply construction and
provision of agricultural credit, started under the First Southern Uplands
project, are expanded to cover most of the provinces of the region. Key
staff have been appointed. Expansion of agricultural extension services is
progressing on schedule. The construction of water supply schemes and
buildings is making rapid progress and in some cases construction is ahead
of schedule.
Cr. No. 1102-YAR - Regional Electrification Project; $12.0 million Credit
of May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: December 15, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is underway, about two months behind
schedule, but this is not expected to affect the project completion date.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Contracts for the supply of materials, the construction and erection of
project facilities and with consultants for detailed engineering and
construction supervision have been signed. The project manager and his
assistants have been appointed.
Cr. No. 1122-YAR - Industrial Development Project; $12.0 million Credit of
May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date; November 13, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project implementation is underway. The director general and the
development banking adviser have been appointed. IBY has relaxed several
of its lending policies to make them more attractive to potential investors.
Cr. No. 1202-YAR Sanaa Urban Development Project; $15.0 million Credit of
February 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: May 7, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Project implementation is underway. Key staff for the Project
Implementation Unit have been appointed and the Unit is operational. The
recruitment of counterpart staff is proceeding satisfactorily. Bidding
documents for infrastructure works have been issued to prequalified
contractors and it is expected that a contract will be awarded before the
end of the year. Commencement of construction is expected to begin on
schedule by April 1, 1983.
Cr. No. 1203-YAR Fourth Education Project; $12.0 million Credit of
February 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: June 15, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Project implementation is underway. The Education Research and
Development center has been created and temporary premises made available
to it. The designs for the first phase of the Engineering Faculty
facilities nave been completed and construction work is expected to begin
before the end of 1983.
Cr. No. 1216-YAR Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion Project;
$2.0 million Credit of April 9, 1982; Effectiveness Date: September 29,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Implementation is underway. The geothermal consultants have been
appointed. The report on Phase I of the petroleum pipeline study has been
completed and Phase II is underway.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Cr. No.1259-YAR Agricultural Research and Development Project; $6.0 million
Credit of August 11, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1267-YAR Fourth Highway Project; $7.0 million Credit of August 11,
1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1294-YAR Health Project; $10.5 million Credit of November 3, 1982;
EFfectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare              Fourteen months (October
project:                                    1980 to December 1981)
(b)  The agencies which prepared the project:  Government and FAO/CP
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:            October 1980
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   January 24, 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:           November 4, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                April 1983
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)  the execution and ratification of a subsidiary loan agreement
between and by the Government and CACB (paragraph 61); and
(ii) the ratification of the Project Agreement by CACB (paragraph 67).
2.   Condition of Disbursement (of the Credit Finance Component of the Credit)
Adoption by CACB of a statement of policies and procedures
acceptable to IDA (pararaph 48).
3.   Measures to be Taken by the Government and CACB include:
(1) Ensuring that: (a) neither the total amount of loan guarantees nor
equity participations by CACB would exceed 10 percent of CACB's
unencumbered paid-in equity share capital (paragraph 49); (b) CACB
interest rates will not be decreased from their present levels



- 33 -
ANNEX III
:Page 2 of 2
(which are positive in real terms) and will be reviewed regularly
(paragraph 51); and (c) at least 50 percent of the funds under the
credit component of the project would be made available by CACB in
the three governorates where IDA-assisted extension centers are
being established (paragraph 56).
(2) Recruitment not later than December 31, 1983 of suitable extension
staff for the new extension centers in Saadah and Hajjah
governorates (paragraph 54).



I
a



_____________________________                                                                                                    ~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR   16358
SO'D SoF A  so.                                                                                                                          4k:  g  ,  <           MAY 1982
2- RAO
OMAE N~A   ,        R1       D o 
AONE  >HIAIN    ,                                                         YEMEN ARAB RFPUBLIC
SAUD~ ARABIA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
20SAN             -AADAH
[0   20   '   '50'          20'            (                                                                                               ® /    NOTIONALGAP <AT
AoM.Ao        Al Moorl                                             X8                                                 FfNII 0NlRE
> -> ~~~HAJJAH                                                            Al H.                                 NT-    .11 
AbVl   /   'Kh=mle ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _n>                       9                                  !~~/  "'
9 Abd~ ~ ~~~LA     
)IN,,L )   . IT      ADns Abd.M  A  R I B
A ydahhKhl=l MAHWIT;*                     / V,oos
Al M=ouqsrDam rh.             /                        -
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'Ad D,.,                                      D  H         A  R
Di BOJI~~~~~~~~ 
/       '''Aj)                       ,                   /  <                                                /'
44\'  zH1,<      >2    PEOPLE'S DEMCCRATC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
E-7HICP A/
D.BCUT
/   DJI OUTIi\,n>6,; '42,   ,,,;i'5Z'                                                                                               /, ''3,  ''',"S,,,,,,',,,,",,,44  



l



SEPIz?T50   RA                 MCX STfANN 
N i.Wh  Nealn/<~    ;-J                                                                                                                 YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
\ Z?ne E Kmd ->--tx X 5TA?                                                                         IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY  SECTOR
_ _ t R \ A . ~~~~~~~S    A                       LD I          A       A    Fs 4A
SAUDI ARAA- I                                                                                                                                      PROJECTS.
TADAN         A       A    '"                                                                                                                               Agr cLt-ral
T- oSAT(;tt TfMENPTSt     ~T/C-__P                                                                                                         i          entostraton Farms
I  vr ~ ~   APTA5 S:i                                                           - -Ez  - .                                                       O  : 4   rate Storage
f'     C)i5'   --0                          (fH               -,/   -kZVg                  -                                                   T.'      'ishek?res
ETH TT   A                                                         u                                                                              jj*   I  F h M-Ako,l
'I                          V'       4      5---T--                                                                            *A       Ed-ation
I                      -        tri~~~~~~Hghasays
SAADAH---                                                                                    Hh         -      -
* xe                       )                    z4 X                    a                      oV               L                                 *        Poaer StatoTs
At                               I                        )            .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.!               U ~~~~~~~~~~Water 5sppiy
'K.'' ,                               \ ]I J<±'                                                                                                            P P.,tart DeAe lopment
rA                                                                                I /   X   rX-~   |   f                        UJrban De-elop-eet
,  ,   \______   -~~~l  su   kr '1   ,//                                  EX STING FEATURES
G--oer.rte Copita
0C L  Y                                                                                                                                                N/-aTooa Cap?tals
9 ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                         S   ,     Ht  ....................vA Ports
a/y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P- R..                                                                                           i
/DE DI 4   /     ^                                C  _                                g            \
./\ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~~ ' -/                           /OE 11 RE'9A E ECTEA                                       -Rtrio l RoAndTEtR                       D
orsfr-/                   R      O   G       U /             D          E                                             ELEVATION (Mete_
.                            'K~ \  H                             :  A.   N                                                  ARJIuTuRA RESARCRA --_ - - ---
/ D J I a O Is T                              1 6nde              gx shm G. . mx do no . Dr,'   _
~      AL MA   fET                                                                     AA-
{                                        f ~      ~~~~~~ ah .1.    /'E     E 'e8/SNrAye BahIs d           ADm
/                                                                ti                                                                                   4f >                             8 _ .
S,,d,d I   I ~     t1~-              I                            > 
HODEIDA 4SASha12                                                                                                                                                  O      0
PEDSL7PZnet At  bid  Ah\~b,dPTA
AL BEIDA
atebeh           CC L S   DEKIO>,!~AT'  HESAF_   OAF  V                     ISl
DAO0t GtSALNTPSYEtS-0
PROE tCATE.    N PRtne              t
USeOSA OPPTE  M   P PESEOIF 
I /                                 -...                            otnoo~~~~~~~~~~~I-  AroEun-E IV-P
E    H    CS' A  _                                                                     ADEN                   Ecosos,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.-L1 I I   NO
USOTEPOt ID                       et
t,PPtrPT TPPPSPEOOTOTTTTP OA,AsAA StOOPPrGOpP,S tp~~~~~~A.~~rp  tEStLUP 5 GDIEOTE-SL 
D    ROuIJT' IttAAP5PPASTArTPSP~TP0T                                                                                                                                          ~
L                                                                                                                                                                 4,6'~~. prprtpApTopt~,.pTppAepoOT,



