Document of                               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4102-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
yEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
November 18, 1982
94
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CIJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00        = Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.50
YRI 1.00        = US$0.22
YRls 1 million = US$222,222
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)   = 0.04 inch
1 meter (mi)          = 3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2) = 10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)    = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)  = 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB   = Agricultural Credit Bank
ACF   = Agricultural Credit Fund
ARS   = Agricultural Research Service
CACB  = Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CBY   = Central Bank of Yemen
CPO   = Central Planning Organization
CYDA  = Confederation cf Yemeni Development Associations
FFYP  = First Five Year Plan
FAO   = Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
HCB   = Housing Credit Bank
IBY   = Industrial Bank: of Yemen
ICB   = International Competitive Bidding
IDA   = International Development Association
IFAD  = International Fund for Agriculture Development
LDA   = Local Development Associations
MAF   = Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NCDB  = National Cooperative Development Bank
SFYP  = Second Five Year Plan
SURDP = Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU = Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA   = Tihama Development Authority
UNDP. = United Nations Development Programme
YBRD  = Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
YAR'  = Yemen Arab Repubblic
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                     Page No.
I.     THE ENVIRONMENT
A. Project Background.                                                1
B.  Agricultural and Rural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
C. Financial Institutions .11
II.     COOPERATIVE AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT BANK
A.  Background ....  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
B. Management and Organization .  . . . . . . . . . . . .            14
C.  Staffing and Training  ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  16
D.  The Accounting System  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
E.  Operating Policies and Procedures .  . . . . . . . . .           17
F.  Performance .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           22
III.     THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives and General Description . . . . . . . . . .           24
B. Detailed Features .25
C. Project Costs .30
D.  Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           32
E. Procurement .32
F. Disbursement .33
G.  Accounts, Audit and Reports  . . . . . . . . . . . . .           34
H.  Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           35
IV.     PROSPECTS, FARMER BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Prospects .35
B.  Farmer Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          .37
C. Economic Benefits and Justification  . . . . . . . . .            38
D. Risks .39
V.     RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in January/
February 1982 consisting of Messrs. T. Baddar, M. Ballesteros (Bank/IDA),
M. Sorensen and T. Tetik (Consultants), followed by a post-appraisal mission
in May 1982 by Mr. Baddar.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEX                                                                  Page No.
1    Table 1:  CACB Income Statements . . . . . . . . . . . .           40
Table 2:  CACB Condensed Balance Sheets   .      .       . .      41
Table 3:  CACB Allocation of Funds During Second Five
Year  Plan   .  .  .  .  .  .  . .    . .  .  .  .  .  .  .    *.  42
Table 4:  CACB Projected Cash Flow . . . . . . . . . . . . .      43
2    Training Program . . . . . . . .                   . . . . . . .   44
3    Table 1:  Project Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       50
Table 2:  Cost Estimates including Contingencies . . . . . .      51
Table 3:  Detailed Project Costs . . . . . . , , a , , , . .      52
Table 3a:  CACB Saadah Branch Cost Estimates . . . . . . . .      53
Table 3b:  MAF Extension Service Cost Estimates  . . . , . .      54
4     Schedule of Estimated Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . .      56
5    Farmer Benefits:
Table 1:  Farm Model 1 Cash Flow . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      57
Table 2:  Farm Model 2 Cash Flow . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      58
Table 3:  Farm Model 3 Cash Flow . . . .      . .   . . . .       59
6     Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File  . . .      60
CHART
World Bank No. 23771 . . .               . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .     61
MAP
IBRD No. 16358



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE ENVIRONMENT
A. Project Background
1.01      The Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested the
International Development Association (IDA) to help finance an agricultural
credit project. Labor shortage due to migration has resulted in farmers'
increasingly resorting to mechanization of farming operations including water
lifting. The agricultural development of the 1970s was largely fueled by
increasing workers' remittances from abroad. These remittances have now
leveled off at about YRls 4 billion (US$890 million). However, due to rising
living costs within the country and competing demands on these remittances for
various consumption and other purposes, the funds available for investment in
agriculture are gradually shrinking. A major government concern is to step up
the flow of institutional credit to farmers to maintain the development
momentum generated in the last decade.
1.02      The Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) is the main
institutional source for farm credit in YAR. While the need for a quick
expansion of CACB's activities is recognized, it does not have the capacity to
shoulder such responsibilities. The merger of the Agricultural Credit Fund
(ACF) into the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) in 1980 followed by the merger
of ACB and the National Cooperative Development Bank (NCDB) under the title
CACB in 1982 have stretched their limited trained manpower and have put the
operating and management control systems under considerable strain.
1.03      The project, which would be the first direct assistance to CACB,
aims at building up CACB's operational capabilities through improvement of its
organizational framework and creation of an adequate pool of trained
personnel. It would also contribute, to a small extent, to financing CACB's
agricultural credit operations.
B. Agricultural and Rural Sector
Agriculture in the Economy
1.04      The decade of the 1970s witnessed fundamental and rapid changes in
the economic, political and social characteristics of YAR. The key
contributing factors have probably been the massive outflow of labor to
neighboring oil producing countries, mainly to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf
States, and the corresponding inflow of earnings from abroad in the form of
workers' remittances. To place these movements into proper perspective, one
may simply mention that an estimated 40% of the total male labor force is



- 2 -
currently working abroad, and that the value of the home remittances of those
workers is equivalent to some 35% to 40% of the value of all goods and
services domestically produced.
1.05      This tremendous inflow of income earned abroad has induced large
increases in consumption and in private investment, particularly in housing
construction. Furthermore, since migration abroad originated predominantly
from rural areas, the inflows of remittances have been broadly distributed
throughout the country resulting in comparable increases in incomes, living
standards and private investment in rural and in urban areas. This has also
resulted in a noteworthy development in rural areas, which has significantly
affected agriculture: the growth of Local Development Associations (LDAs).
LDAs have contributed to the opening of rural areas through construction of
roads, apart from building the social infrastructure to improve living
standards (paras 1.38-1.41).
1.06      The substantial increases in the demand for food and the shift in
demand due to higher incomes have outstripped the short-run response potential
of the domestic agricultural sector and have resulted in sizable increases in
imports. Concurrently, the agricultural labor force has been curtailed by the
strong labor demand, and correspondingly high wages, from other sectors,
particularly by the widespread boom in the construction sector.
1.07      Agriculture remains, nevertheless, the single most important sector
of the YAR economy, employing about 75% of the resident labor force and
contributing approximately 38% to the country's gross domestic product (GDP).
Agricultural export earnings, however, have declined sharply from US$14
million in 1973/74 to US$3 million in 1978/79, largely as a result of falling
cotton production.
1.08      By contrast, agricultural imports, particularly food, have grown
spectacularly. From US$80 million in 1973/74, food imports rose to US$290
million in 1978/79 and an estimated US$540 million in 1980. Imported
foodstuffs currently account for about 40% of domestic food consumption. The
largest relative increases in imports have occurred in such income-elastic
demand commodities as meat, dairy products, fruit and vegetables. There have
also been, however, substantial increases in imports of food grains,
especially wheat, from 130,000 tons in 1973/74 to about 400,000 tons in 1980.
The Agricultural Resource Base
1.09      Land Resources.  The total area of YAR is about 20 million ha, of
which about 1.5 million ha are considered cultivable. A further 2.0 million
ha are classified as marginal agricultural land, cultivated when rainfall is
favorable and grazed otherwise. Some nonagricultural lands, with light
vegetation, are also used as rangelands.
1.10      Much of the country's productive land, particularly in the Southern
and Central Highlands, is a man-made asset built on a centuries-old system of
terraces, cleverly designed and solidly executed, that has served to control
erosion, to harvest a maximum of water run-off, and to retain rich, deep



- 3 -
soils. The terrace system, however, is increasingly threatened by a lack of
maintenance resulting from labor shortage which has led to the abandonment of
marginal terraces in certain locations, thus endangering the entire terrace
system on a given slope. In addition, the use of tractors on terraces and,
perhaps more importantly, the construction of roads without proper drainage or
attention to irreparable terrace damage from displaced earth and rocks, has
led to increased terrace deterioration and erosion.
1.11      Climate and Agroecological Zones.  Climatic conditions vary widely
even among small areas within a region because of the mountainous topography
and the influence of the sea. Precipitation varies from as low as 50 mm in
the Coastal Lowlands and eastern escarpments to as high as 1,200 mm in the
Southern Uplands. About 85% of the cultivated land depends solely on
rainfall. The remainder is roughly equally divided into areas supplied with
one or more irrigations by spate flood flow and areas irrigated year round by
wells, streams or springs. Five main agroecological zones may be
characterized as follows:
(a) the Coastal Lowlands (Tihama) that cover a band 400 km long and 30 km
to 60 km wide along the Red Sea coast with elevations ranging
between sea level and 200 m above. Tropical conditions of high
temperature and humidity prevail. The Tihama comprises five major
wadis and 12 smaller ones which permit cultivation of about
235,000 ha. Rainfall is scarce (50 mm to 200 mm), and agriculture
depends mainly on utilization of the flood discharge of the wadis
and of underground water resources. The main crops are sorghum,
millet and cotton. Tobacco, maize, sesame, vegetables and fruit
(dates, bananas and citrus) are also grown. Livestock plays a minor
role in this region, which contains an estimated 10% of the
country's population of cattle, sheep and goats;
(b) the Southern Uplands that lie east of the Tihama with elevations
ranging from 200 m to 1,500 m above sea level. The landscape is
rugged, cut by deep wadis. In the foothills, with higher relative
humidity, sorghum, maize, bananas, papaya, citrus and vegetables
(tomatoes, onions, okra and radishes) predominate. In the middle
heights, temperature and humidity conditions are subtropical. Taiz
at 1,375 m is typical of the area with an average rainfall of
600 mm. Sorghum, qat, coffee, fruit and vegetables are the major
crops. The total cultivable area in the Southern Uplands is about
550,000 ha, mostly on man-made terraces. The region is also an
important livestock producer containing approximately 30% of the
total cattle population of the country and a similar percentage of
sheep and goats;
(c) the Central Highlands that comprise the middle reaches of the
central mountain range with elevations from 1,500 m above sea level
up to 3,700 m. Rainfall varies considerably; it averages 300 mm but
ranges up to 1,200 mm in the southern areas. Rainfed cultivation
predominates, but open-well irrigation is increasingly practiced on
the central plains. Wheat, barely, alfalfa, sorghum, grapes, qat,



- 4 -
coffee, figs, stone fruits and vegetables are the chief crops. The
total cultivable area in this zone is about 600,000 ha. The Central
Highlands are also the main livestock-raising region in YAR with
about 35% of the total of cattle, sheep and goats;
(d)  the Northern Highlands that constitute the upper reaches of the
central mountain chain. The climate is semi-arid with annual
rainfall ranging from 200 mm to 500 mm and altitudes that exceed
1,500 m. There are an estimated 130,000 ha of cultivable land in
this region which is mainly devoted to sorghum, wheat and grazing.
The livestock population in this region is estimated at about 15% of
the country's total; and
(e)  the Eastern region that slopes gently towards the desert in the
East. There is very little rainfall, and desert shrubs are the main
vegetation. Most cultivation, on an estimated 25,000 ha, occurs
along the wadis that flow eastwards from the Highlands towards the
desert. Sorghum and millet are the principal crops. Livestock
plays only a minor role in this region, with about 10% of the total
stock of the country.
Production
1.12      The average annual rate of growth of agricultural production during
the past decade is estimated at 4% with large interannual variations. Even
though agricultural statistics are extremely weak, two major trends in overall
production may be identified: (a) a decline in production of low-value
traditional crops (sorghum and millet) more than offset by substantial growth
in production of higher-value and income-elastic crops (legumes, vegetables,
potatoes and fruit); and (b) a dramatic decline in the production of export
crops, especially cotton.
1.13      Cereal Grains.  Sorghum and millet are the principal crops grown
mainly in the Southern Uplands (about 40% of the total), in the Central
Highlands (32%) and in the Tihama (16%). Wheat is rapidly replacing sorghum
as the main food grain in the diet: the area planted increased from 30,000 ha
in 1971/72 to 83,000 ha in 1973/74, but it has since fallen back (1980) to
about 65,000 ha. Wheat yields appear stationary at about 1 ton/ha except in
those areas where the improved variety, Sonalika, is yielding about 1.9 ton/
ha. The area planted to maize has increased from 10,000 ha in 1971/72 to
30,000 ha in 1979/80, mainly in irrigated areas in the Tihama. Maize yields
average 1.5 ton/ha.
1.14      Other Food Crops.  Legumes, fruit and vegetables have been the main
contributors to the recent growth in crop production. Between 1971/72 and
1979/80, production of legumes increased from 60,000 tons to 80,000 tons,
vegetables from 137,000 tons to 254,000 tons, potatoes from 58,000 tons to
127,000 tons, and fruit (including grapes and dates) from 68,000 tons to
137,000 tons. The Southern Uplands again rank first in production of these
crops with 36% of total legume and vegetable production and 45% of fruit
production. The Central Highlands rank second with 30% and 35%, respectively,



- 5 -
followed by the Tihama where 28% of the legumes and vegetables and 15% of the
fruit are grown.
1.15      Qat.  An assessment of agricultural production in YAR would be
incomplete without considering qat, a mildly narcotic plant that has become
the most important cash crop in the country. Like coffee or tobacco, it has
no nutritional value but is widely consumed by the population who enjoy its
stimulating and relaxing properties, usually in the context of social
gatherings. High prices and low production cost have made qat the most
profitable crop in YAR, and production has increased rapidly, mainly in the
Southern Uplands and Central Highlands, supported by an extremely efficient
marketing organization. Although there are no official estimates of
production, it is generally assumed that its market value exceeds by far that
of any other cash crop in YAR. This suggests that agricultural incomes,
including those derived from qat, are substantially higher than shown in the
national accounts.
1.16      Export Crops.  Cotton and coffee were the two principal exports of
YAR. The rise in labor costs and the higher returns from alternative
irrigated crops resulted in a drop in cotton production from 27,000 tons in
1974/75 to about 3,000 tons in 1979/80. The Government has recently adopted a
Cotton Promotion Policy, consisting basically of better producer prices and
subsidized inputs, aimed at eliciting sufficient production to supply domestic
ginneries and mills. Coffee production has failed to make any headway against
the more lucrative qat production and has remained stationary at about
3,500 tons per year during the past decade.
1.17      Livestock.  Available statistics show practically no increase in
livestock production except for poultry products. There are an estimated
880,000 head of cattle and 3.7 million sheep and goats in the country. Crop
by-products are used for cattle and sheep feeding although the main source of
feed for sheep and goats is the country's extensive, if degraded, rangeland.
Farm Technology
1.18      Although traditional farm techniques predominate in YAR, there has
been a significant increase in the use of fertilizer and pesticides over the
past decade; originally applied only to cotton, farmers are now responding to
extension service advice in the context of specific development projects,
principally in the Tihama and Southern Uplands. Farmers have also
demonstrated a strong interest in planting improved varieties of crops where
these have become available, as in the case of wheat and potatoes in the
Highlands and maize, sorghum and millets in the Lowlands.
1.19      The most far-reaching changes in farming methods, however, consist
in the introduction of tractors and water pumps in response to labor and water
scarcity. It is estimated that in 1979 some 200,000 ha (15% of the total
cultivated area) were plowed with tractors, the number of which had grown to
about 5,000 from practically nil at the beginning of the decade. Tractors,
however, tend to be overpowered and not properly utilized often resulting in
excessive costs and damage to soils and terrace walls.



-6-
Agricultural Services
1.20      Overall responsibility for agricultural development and for the
provision of technical services l-ies with the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries (MAF). At Sanaa, MAF consists of six departments, among them the
Agricultural Services Department which is itself divided into six divisions
including extension and plant protection. The divisions are understaffed and
short of trained personnel. Also under MAF, though directly responsible to
the Minister, are CACB, the Central Agricultural Research Station, the
Southern Uplands Rural Development: Unit (SURDU), and the Tihama Development
Authority (TDA).
1.21      Extension.  MAF has established agricultural offices in the
headquarters of nine governorates but, due to financial and staff constraints,
its extension activities are limited to one center each in Sanaa and Dhamar,
both supported by bilateral assistance, and two centers in Hodeidah financed
by an FAO/UNDP project.  In addition, SURDU and TDA provide extension
assistance to farmers in their respective project areas. Some other bilateral
and multilateral projects have also limited extension components. The
resulting geographical distribution of extension agents is extremely skewed;
of the total number of 193 as of November 1981, 90% or 173 agents were in the
Tihama and Southern Uplands areas, leaving only 20 agents to cover the rest of
the country.
1.22      Vocational - Technical Level Education.  With World Bank, USAID and
other external assistance, the following secondary schools are being
established:
(a) Ibb Agricultural Seconda,ry School. Instruction started September
1979;
(b) Surdud Agricultural Secondary School. Construction was completed in
February 1981 and the school was officially opened with 32 enrolled
students in September 1981. Thirty students enrolled in September
1982; and
(c) Sanaa Livestock Secondary School. Construction is nearing
completion, and instruction is scheduled to begin in November 1982.
1.23      The Ibb school has a designed capacity for 270 students, i.e.,
90 students entering each year for a three-year course of study. Actual first
year enrollment was 55; the second and third years 23. Furthermore, only 38
of the first year's class returned for their third and final year of study.
The Surdud School, with a designed capacity for 220 students, opened as
scheduled in September 1981 with only 32 students. The Sanaa school has a
three-year curriculum and a designed capacity of 180 students.
1.24      Inadequate planning for student recruitment and low stipends in
relation to other schools are the main reasons for the enrollment shortfall.
Student recruitment efforts are normally started in August, after grades of
the elementary school graduates are available, which is too late to ensure



full enrollment.  Moreover, Ibb students receive stipends of only YRls 300 per
month, while at other secondary schools these are YRls 500 or more per month.
1.25       Since 1979, the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) at Taiz has been
conducting one-year theoretical and practical training courses for about
25 students who receive a stipend of YRls 750 per month while in residence.
Two-week refresher sessions are held occasionally. About 80% of the students
are being engaged as extention agents in the Southern Uplands I project.
1.26      Agricultural Research.  Prior to 1973, agricultural research was
practically non-existent in YAR. In 1973, UNDP initiated support of a Central
Agricultural Research and Training Organization at Taiz. The project,
executed by FAO, established the ARS at Taiz and started research on key crops
in the Southern Uplands region. In 1974, IDA's first assistance to
agriculture in YAR (Tihama I) included a research component in the Tropical
Lowlands. Subsequently, several bilateral assistance projects have
incorporated research components.
1.27       In 1979, UNDP initiated Phase II of its Agricultural Research
Project with IDA as executing agency. ARS objectives under Phase II were to
(a) conduct a research program geared to the agricultural problems of the
Southern Uplands; (b) advise MAF on developing a national research program;
(c) provide facilities, equipment and expatriate assistance for a study of the
country's various research programs; and (d) provide for training of the
necessary extension agents required under Southern Uplands Rural Development
Projects I and II.
1.28      An Agricultural Research and Development Project (Credit 1259-YAR)
was appraised in October/November 1981 and has been approved by IDA for
financing, with IFAD and the Government of Italy co-financing.
Government Plans and Policies
1.29      A First Five-Year Plan (FFYP) (1976/77-1981) was initiated in 1978.
The plan called for expenditures in support of agriculture of YRls 2.6 billion
(14% of total investment envisaged) of which YRls 1.4 billion would be in the
public sector. Public investments would consist of irrigation projects (50%
of the total), livestock development (18%), crop research and training (14%),
rural development (11%), fisheries (6%) and forestry (1%). The overall goal of
the FFYP was to promote self-sufficiency in food production within the general
framework of a 5.5% annual rate of increase of agricultural production. High
priority was assigned to projects in areas with good agricultural potential,
mainly the Tihama and Southern and Central Highlands, and to research and
manpower training.
1.30      An assessment of achievements under the FFYP has been carried out in
conjunction with the preparations of the Second Five Year Plan (SFYP). A
number of major development projects were completed or nearing completion
(Wadi Zabid Development, Southern Uplands Rural Integrated Development I, and
Livestock Processing and Credit), numerous feasibility investigations were
completed, a large cadre was given training abroad, an Agricultural Credit



- 8 -
Bank was established and a vast lending program implemented far beyond that
anticipated in the plan, new extension services were created, a central
research station became a reality, and development centers were established in
Radaa, Dhamar and Amran. The cost envisaged in the FFYP, the subsequent
estimated project cost and the expenditures estimated through December 31,
1981 are summarized below:
Estimated     Estimated    Expenditures   Project
Class of Project       No.   Plan Cost   Pro ect Cost    to 12/31/81        Cost
--------------(YRls '000)…------- --%-)-
Plant Production          14        35,425       206,382         138,259       67.0
Rural Development          6       190,610        570,690        177,058       31.0
Livestock Production       4       1'51,895      209,555        205,583        98.1
Land & Water Resources    5         84,800        100,172        160,194      159.9
Fisheries                  7        94,500        139,000          8,288        6.0
Support to MAF             2        23,551        42,329         36,940        87.3
Mechanization              1        11,282         15,766          9,720       61.7
Tihama Development         3       462,300        108,400        192,197      177.3
Total                42    1,06D4,363     1,392,294        928,239        66.7
1.31      The expenditures to date on all plant production projects are
considerably less than the estimated project cost. Expenditures on two of the
planned rural integrated development projects were as planned, with virtually
nothing spent on similar projects planned for Khowlan, Hajjah and Mahweit.
Expenditures on all four livestock production projects were on target.
Expenditures were made only on planning for the seven proposed fisheries
projects. Expenditures on all the implemented land and water projects far
exceeded the planned costs due prinacipally to the high rate of inflation
during the past five years.
1.32      It can be concluded that implementation of all projects in the Plan
has had only minimal beneficial impact on output in the agricultural sector
thus far. This should have been expected since most of the projects were not
designed to have immediate impact on production. Data are not available to
provide any meaningful analysis of the results achieved for the separate
projects. The growth or lack of growth in the sector has been a consequence
of variations in rainfall and the activities of the private sector, not the
public sector investments. The full effect of the public sector investments
will be realized only over a long period.
1.33      The SFYP document was completed and presented to an international
congress of donor countries and multilateral development agencies in April
1982. The overall strategy and approach of the First Plan have been
maintained in the Second; in addition, the Second Plan includes a broader
geographical dispersion of projects aimed at cementing national unity as well
as increasing agricultural production and incomes. The agricultural
investment plan, however, is excessively ambitious: it proposes
implementation of 57 public investment projects at a cost of more than
YRls 3.0 billion. The Government will soon have to face the task of



- 9 -
establishing priorities and deciding on a more compact investment program that
takes into account the very real constraints of local manpower and counterpart
funds.
IDA Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
1.34       IDA's strategy for agricultural sector assistance in YAR is
four-pronged: (i) support to development projects in the main areas of the
country with high production potential; (ii) assistance in the development of
improved technological inputs and in the provision of financial means for the
farmers to purchase and apply those inputs; (iii) institution building; and
(iv) support to rural development projects, currently being identified and
prepared, in areas of priority to the Government on grounds of high population
density or on considerations of national cohesiveness. To date, IDA has
committed about US$123 million to help finance agricultural projects broadly
falling within the first three areas of its overall strategy.
1.35       The first IDA-assisted agricultural project was Tihama Development I
(Wadi Zabid) in 1973 co-financed with the Kuwait Fund. It was completed in
December 1979, only six months behind schedule, with total IDA credits of
US$2l.2 million and Kuwait Fund loans of US$16 million. The second project
(1976) was Southern Uplands Rural Integrated Development Project I (SURDP I)
assisted with an IDA credit of US$10 million and co-financed with US$10
million from the Abu Dhabi Fund. This project, recently completed, is
generally acknowledged as having been successful in achieving its broad
objectives of increasing rainfed cereal production and improving rural
infrastructure, particularly water supplies. The project's greatest impact
has been through extension, credit and input distribution programs, and it was
followed up by SURDP II in 1981. Similarly, the Project Performance Audit
Report of the Tihama I project (Wadi Zabid, Credit 376-YAR) concluded that the
project had been quite successful in terms of construction, agricultural
research, extension and credit.
1.36       Other IDA-assisted agricultural projects under way in YAR include
Tihama Development II (Wadi Rima I, FY78), III (Wadi Mawr, FY80) and IV (Wadi
Rima II, FY80); Grain Storage and Processing (FY76); Livestock Credit and
Processing (FY77); and Fisheries I (FY80), all of which are making progress
usually after having experienced start-up problems due to financial or
managerial problems of varying degrees of severity. The Government's
contribution to these agricultural projects has been continuously increasing
as a share of total cost. The Agricultural Research and Development Project
was approved by IDA on June 8, 1982.
1.37       Moreover, the Bank has been the executing agency for the first of
two UNDP projects approved in 1973 for a period of five years aimed at
(i) providing institutional support to MAF, and (ii) establishing the Central
Agricultural and Training Organization. The second phase, which began in
1979, saw the amalgamation of the two projects into one covering two distinct
components with the Bank as the executing agency and also assisting in its
financing. A third phase currently under preparation would follow the closing
of the second phase of both components in December 1982 and June 1983
respectively.



- 10 -
Rural Organizations
1.38      A noteworthy feature of the rural environment in YAR is LDAs. 1/
They started in 1963 following a clecree of the Republic Government calling for
the establishment of local groups to build the basic infrastructure in their
respective areas, encouraging self-help rather than reliance on central
government initiatives and programs. Only 28 LDAs were established during the
following decade. In 1973, LDA leaders met and formed the Confederation of
Yemeni Development Associations (CYDA), which set about standardizing
organizational arrangements within the different associations and introducing
democratic procedures aimed at securing greater popular support and
participation. The organizational. arrangements and procedures to be followed
by LDAs were given final form in 1975 by Government Decree.  There are
currently 204 LDAs in YAR.
1.39      LDAs are communal organizations and not government agencies.  Their
relations with the Central Government are consequently rather informal, and
usually arise at the initiative of the LDAs themselves especially in seeking
technical assistance from specific Ministries. Only the Ministry of Youth,
Labor and Social Affairs has formal relations with the LDAs as it is
responsible for supervision of LDAs' elections, administration and financial
affairs. The bulk of central government contacts with LDAs are channeled
through CYDA, which is both a confederation of all LDAs and, consequently,
their national spokes medium, and a coordinating body through which the
Government exerts its influence.
1.40      LDAs' revenues accrue from the following sources:  (a) 75% of the
proceeds of the tax on the value of agricultural production (Zakat) in their
respective areas; (b) 2-1/2% of net import duty collections, channeled through
CYDA by the Central Government; (c) membership fees at the rate of YRl 1
per voter per year; (d) foreign grants channeled through CYDA; (e) private
local contributions; (f) 25% of municipalities' incomes; and (g) where
applicable, 1% of revenues from transportation and arena tickets, YRls 5 from
each person traveling abroad and YRl 1 from those boarding a domestic flight.
LDAs' annual revenues are currently of the order of YRls 200
million.  Up to 90% of LDAs' budget may be devoted to basic infrastructure
projects. The remainder may be allocated in specified proportions, to
agricultural and handicraft associations, electricity projects, gasoline
stations, LDAs' headquarters, forestation, mosque upgrading and sports clubs.
Thus far, the bulk of LDAs' resources have been spent on roads, water supply
projects, schools and clinics. During the two-year period, 1979-80, about
YRls 209 million (US$46.4) was spent on such projects, of which about 40% was
local communities' contributions n,ot counting voluntary labor provided.
1/ See World Bank Report No. 2963a-YAR: Yemen Arab Republic - Local
Development Associations: A New Approach to Rural Development, March 2,
1981; and FAO/CP: YAR - Rural Development Support Project Pre-Preparation
Report, 1 February 1982.



- 11 -
1.42      Currently, there exist about 35 cooperative associations in YAR.
Their principal orientation is product marketing, but little information is
available on their scope and operations.
C. Financial Institutions
1.43      Credit institutions in YAR consist of the Central Bank of Yemen
(CBY), 10 commercial banks and three specialized banks. Three insurance
companies and one investment finance company complete the roster of financial
institutions in the country. In addition, there is a lively non-institutional
financial sector comprising foreign exchange dealers and traditional money
lenders.
Central Bank
1.44      The Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) was established in July 1971, taking
over the functions of the Yemen Currency Board set up in 1964. CBY sets the
interest rates that may be paid on deposits and charged on loans by commercial
and specialized banks and establishes reserve requirements. It is empowered
to offer rediscount facilities to commercial banks, but they are seldom used.
1.45      Reserve Requirements.  On deposits with maturities of up to one
year, commercial banks are required to maintain 20% in legal and statutory
reserves. In general, reserve requirements have been relaxed in recent
months, in line with recommendations made by a joint Bank-IMF mission, in
order to lower interest costs to banks on longer-term deposits, thus making it
attractive to offer longer-term loans within the framework of approved
interest rates.
1.46      Structure of Interest Rates.  Commercial banks' maximum and minimum
rates on loans and deposits, respectively, have been changed several times
during the past two years, mirroring the movements in international money
markets. The rates have been set as follows:
Structure of Commercial Banks' Interest Rates, 1978-1981
1978                1980                    1981
Apr      Feb       Apr    Jul   Nov   May      Dec
----------_____----  z p.a a.)-------
Maximum lending rates   10         13-1/2   15-1/2   12    15    17    15
Minimum deposit rates:
Savings deposits        6        8-1/2   10-1/2    7    10    11    10
Time deposits:
3  months            6-1/2    8-1/2   10-1/2    7    10    11        9-1/2
6  months            7        9-1/2   11-1/2    8    11    12    10
9 months             7-1/2   10-1/2   12-1/2    9    12    13    11
12  months            8       11-1/2   13-1/2   10    13    14    12
Maximum interest rates that may be charged by the specialized banks are also
regulated by CBY.  Currently, applicable rates are 11% for seasonal loans
and 10% on medium- and long-term loans.



- 12 -
Commercial Banks
1.47      The commercial banks are not a homogenous group.  At one extreme,
Citibank's objective is to finance itself from intrabank sources (head and
regional offices abroad) to lend to government projects, public enterprises,
and large commercial concerns. With a large proportion of its staff being
highly paid expatriates and other high overhead costs, its branch in YAR is
not interested in "retail" banking. To discourage off-the-street depositors,
it requires very high minimum balances to open and maintain an account. At
the other extreme, the government-sponsored Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (YBRD), with 70% of the banking business, engages in all forms of
banking and currently operates 23 branches (including the head office). With
the closing of the branch of the British Bank of the Middle East in Ibb, YBRD
is the only commercial bank with branches outside of Sanaa, Hodeidah and
Taiz. The other commercial banks fit on a spectrum between these two,
evincing varying degrees of interest in retail banking but none being willing
to take on the expense of more than three branches.
1.48      Commercial bank lending is concentrated in short-term loans for
import financing. With encouragement from CBY, banks tried some project
financing, but the experience was not totally satisfactory.  In recent months,
private sector loan demand has fallen off considerably and YBRD reports a
considerable increase in reserves.
Specialized Banks
1.49      There are three specialized banks currently operating in YAR:  CACB,
the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY) and the Housing Credit Bank (HCB).
1.50      The Cooperative and Agri,zultural Credit Bank.  The traditional
sources of credit for the agricultural sector have been merchants selling
inputs and implements, large-scale farmers and, recently, exchange dealers.
Typically, money lenders have lent agricultural inputs and often have required
borrowers to repay in agricultural products. Rather than directly charging
interest, they have manipulated the prices of inputs and outputs to generate a
return on their loans. Some estimates of the effective interest rates that
may have been earned in the mid-1970s by overcharging for fertilizer are as
high as 100%.
1.51      The Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) and the Agricultural Credit Fund
(ACF) were created to provide low-cost credit. ACF, which was managed by CBY,
was a fund to account for loans from foreign governments and multilateral
agencies intended for the agricultural sector. It was merged in 1980 with
ACB. It extended loans in kind and was reported to have had a repayment
record of 90% to 95% with loans to small-scale farmers by very sternly
insisting on repayment. In January 1982, NCDB, which was used mainly as a
means of channeling funds transferred by the Government to LDAs, was merged
with ACB to form CACB, which becomes the only credit institution serving the
rural sector. A detailed discussion of CACB follows in Chapter II.
1.52      The Industrial Bank of Yemen.  IBY's prevailing interest rate on
medium- and long-term loans is 10% p.a. plus a service charge of 1% p.a. In



- 13 -
addition to lending for the acquisition of fixed assets, it may also take
equity in an enterprise but its combined loan and equity position in any one
concern may not exceed 10% of the amount of its total own equity. This
currently constrains it to a maximum of less than YRls 10 million. In
addition to this restriction, it is bound by a debt to equity ratio of 3:1,
and it may not accept deposits from the general public.
1.53      The Housing Credit Bank.  Because HCB gives priority to government
employees and because there is such a strong demand for housing loans by them,
its loans are confined to this group. Although it seeks to serve low income
earners, the average loan amount is YRls 55,000 (with a maturity of
seven years and a 9% p.a. interest rate, the monthly amortization payment
would be YRIs 885). HCB has become involved in helping the Government provide
housing to employees who were promised it as part of their benefits in order
to attract and retain them in the public service. HCB's main source of funds
is capital subscribed by the Government. It would like an additional YRls 400
million to expand its lending in Sanaa and to begin lending in other cities.
II. COOPERATIVE AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT BANK
A. Background
2.01      The history of agricultural credit in YAR dates back to 1974 when
ACF was established within CBY, at the initiative of IDA, to provide financing
for the on-farm development components of the Tihama Development Project.
Prior to the establishment of ACF, farmers had to depend on their own
resources or on other non-institutional resources such as landlords, village
merchants and friends. ACF later assumed responsibility for financing the
credit needs under all IDA-assisted projects. Thus, by the very nature of its
conception, lending activities of ACF covered specific purposes stipulated in
the IDA Credit Agreements and extended to defined project areas.
2.02      In order to cater to the credit needs of farmers outside the
specific project areas, the Government took steps in 1975 to set up a wholly
government-owned agricultural bank. Thus ACB came into being in 1975 and
began its operations from July 1, 1976 with an authorized capital of YRls 100
million. In January 1978, the control of ACF was transferred to the Board of
Directors of ACB which adopted uniform service conditions and pay scales for
the staff of both institutions. This move paved the way for the merger of ACF
into ACB following an agreement reached in March 1980 between the Government
and IDA. The merger took place effective July 1, 1980, but the accounts of
both institutions were not integrated until January 1, 1981.
2.03      In September 1979, NCDB was established to support the cooperative
movement through its apex organization known as the Confederation of Yemeni
Development Associations (CYDA). Its main objectives were to render banking
services to the cooperative bodies and LDAs and to grant loans to finance the
projects undertaken by them, mainly in the development of rural infrastructure
such as building of feeder roads, drinking water supply systems, health care



- 14 -
units and primary schools. It began its operations in January 1980 with an
authorized capital of YRls 100 million subscribed to by Government and CYDA in
the ratio of 6:4, of which YRls 3.3 million was paid in.
2.04      Thus by the end of 1981., two banks were engaged in the financing of
projects in the rural sector; ACB serving agriculture and NCDB supporting
other aspects of rural development:. While ACB was starved of funds during a
large part of 1980 and the whole of 1981, NCDB enjoyed the luxury of making
only two loans of about YRls 3 million preferring to have its liquid resources
on deposit with commercial banks and limiting its activities to some form of
overdraft facilities for LDAs. It was against this background that the
Governrment moved in January 1982 to merge the two banks under CACB.
2.05      CACB was established in January 1982 with two main objectives,
namely, to:
(a)  assist in financing agricultural development including irrigation
and forestry and to participate in projects that aim to increase
agricultural production, livestock and fisheries; and
(b)  support agricultural ancl handicraft cooperative associations and
organizations through assisting in the financing of projects
promoted by their associations and organizations.
CACB is empowered by its Act to perform all banking services normally carried
out by agricultural cooperative credit banks and organizations including the
acceptance of deposits, the issue of guarantees and the provision of
materials, machinery and equipment needed for cooperative and agricultural
projects. CACB's authorized capital was set at YRls 300 million of which the
paid-up capital amounts to YRls 170 million (ACB YRls 110 million and NCDB
YRls 60 million).
2.06      CACB inherited from ACB and ACF responsibility for the credit
aspects of the IDA credits referred to in para 1.35, namely Tihama Development
Projects I, II, III and IV (Credits 376, 805, 880 and 978-YAR); Southern
Uplands Rural Development Projects I and II (Credits 545 and 1067-YAR); Grain
Storage and Processing Project (Credit 636-YAR); Livestock Credit and
Processing Project (Credit 662-YAR); and Fisheries Development Project
(Credit 1025-YAR).
B. Manageaent and Organization
2.07      CACB's 1/ Board of Directors is composed of seven members.  The
Chairman of the Board is appointed by the President on the recommendation of
the Minister of Agriculture and approval of the Council of Ministers. In
addition to the General Manager of CACB, who is appointed by the Council of
Ministers on the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries,
1/ Reference to CACB operations prior to 1982 should be read as reference to
ACB.



- 15 -
the other five members represent MAF, the Ministry of Labor and Social
Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
CYDA. The Board formulates CACB's policies and makes decisions on all
important operational and administrative matters. The Board usually meets
once a month; it approves loans exceeding YRIs 250,000, makes decisions on
important issues and considers other matters relative to CACB's operations.
Lack of adequate and timely information flows, however, has been a major
handicap for the Board in assessing CACB's actual performance and in
developing sound policies and programs for the future.
2.08      The Chairman of the Board is chief executive officer of CACB and is
responsible for the execution of the policies and resolutions of the Board.
The present Chairman assumed his duties in July 1981 on the reassignment of
his predecessor. His professional experience of 15 years has been in
commercial banking in YBRD of which he was last the General Manager. While
the Chairman provides overall corporate direction, the General Manager is
responsible for supervising the day-to-day operations of CACB. The first
General Manager, following the merger, was NCDB's general manager, who was
replaced nine months later by NCDB's Hodeidah branch manager.
2.09      CACB's management relied heavily for consultation and advice on the
services of an expatriate expert who was previously General Manager of ACB and
later designated as Adviser. The term of employment of this expert and the
two other remaining expatriates who head the Planning, Training and Statistics
Department and the Internal Audit Department expired on June 30, 1982.
Continued benefit of such expert services is necessary for CACB especially in
the context of the need to ensure efficient implementation of the measures
proposed under this project for the building up of CACB as an effective
agricultural credit institution.
2.10      CACB is organized along functional lines (see World Bank Chart
No. 23771) into departments, each of which is headed by a manager. Under the
ongoing IDA-assisted projects, CACB is required to maintain separate accounts
for lending operations under each project. The accounts are expected to
reflect the position of funds borrowed, their due status, the purpose for
which each category of loan (short, medium or long term) was disbursed, loan
repayment record under each project and the type of assets funds were invested
in, if any. None of the departments in CACB is at present capable of
producing this information nor are they able to provide management with timely
information regarding the progress of these projects or their lending
operations under the different activities. The Planning, Training and
Statistics Department has yet to introduce suitable uniform formats for
periodical collection of data and devise a system to process and tabulate, in
standardized report forms, the data received from branches.
2.11      Hitherto, CACB operated through nine branches, four of which were
originally opened by ACF to provide facilities to farmers covered by the
Tihama Development Projects and Southern Uplands Rural Development Projects
(SURDP). All branches are located in six governorates covering the Tihama
coastal plain and the western and southern half of the Central Highlands.
Under SURDP II, CACB would be opening two more branches at Yarim and Turbah in



- 16 -
the Southern Uplands in addition 1to the existing branches at Taiz and Ibb, and
the Government is particularly keen that CACB extend its operations to the
Saadah Governorate and has offered a plot of land to CACB for construction of
its branch building. In the meantime, CACB has rented temporary accommodation
for its offices. However, lack oE resources to invest in buildings and
equipment, and shortage of senior Yemeni staff to manage the new offices is a
major constraint.
2.12      With the growing number of CACB branches, effective branch control
becomes critical. No single department exercises direct control over branches
and whatever information that flows from branches is received partly by the
Credit Department and partly by the Finance Department without any supervisory
function exercised by either department.  All these issues create
administrative and organizational problems which work to weaken the
effectiveness of the institution.
C. Staffing and Training
2.13      The main objective of CACB staffing strategy has been to obtain a
team of qualified people who are capable of providing the requisite services
to the rural sector. However, due to the wide gap between the demand for
university and secondary school graduates and the numbers available, CACB had
to resort to recruiting candidates with middle and even elementary school
education. CACB's present staff strength totals 389 (ACB 274 plus NCDB 115).
Of the total number of staff, excLuding drivers, messengers and guards
totalling 83 persons and three expatriate experts, 53 or about 17% are
university graduates mainly in cormmerce, business administration and
economics, 164 or about 54% are secondary school graduates and the remainder
have middle or elementary school education. While the senior management
personnel hold university degrees or diplomas, about 50% of the middle level
managerial positions are manned by holders of secondary school certificates
and about 30% of the clerical and accounts staff have middle or elementary
school education. Besides, a majority of the the staff have very limited
experience due to the high turnovier reflecting the acute shortage and the pull
of rela.tively high salaries in other sectors. To stop this trend, CACB
revised its salary scales upwards in October 1980 which now compare favorably
with civil service scales.
2.14      Recognizing at the outset the difficulty of recruiting qualified
staff and the need for outside help to recruit and train new staff members,
management resorted to the recruitment of a number of Arabic-speaking
expatriate experts in management and advisory positions. The plan was to use
them until local staff became trained and experienced. In addition CACB has,
through bilateral assistance, been able to send 21 of its employees on
short-term tours of agricultural credit banks in neighboring countries.
Eleven officers were sent to Syria, six to Sudan, two to Egypt and two to
Cyprus for periods ranging from two to four months. These two forms of
training, although successful, produce limited results. CACB's policies and
procedures, which were developed and documented by the expatriate staff, are
generally sound but there is an acute shortage of well-trained and experienced
manpower to understand and implement those policies and procedures.



- 1 7 -
2.15      What CACB needs is considerable technical and other assistance to
make arrangements for training of staff at all levels in agricultural credit
and banking. The problems of evaluating investment proposals and assessing
the credit-worthiness of clients with little or no previous experience in
bookkeeping, inadequate technical knowledge and limited managerial skills can
hardly be overemphasized. In recognition of the need to pursue a vigorous
policy of training of all personnel, a training division was recently created
within the Planning, Training and Statistics Department with a view :o
formulating regular staff training programs. A measure of the task ahead may
be obtained by considering the fact that CACB has not reached 5% of the
farmers in YAR. Training of CACB personnel would, therefore, be a crucial
element of the proposed project (para 3.02).
D. The Accounting System
2.16      Effective January 1, 1981, CACB introduced the "unified accounting
system" prescribed by the Ministry of Economy under a Government decreee for
all government departments and public sector institutions including banks.
Although it is claimed that the system has been conceived to meet overall
requirements of these agencies, it does not meet the specific requirements of
agricultural credit institutions like CACB. Under this system, the format for
presentation of annual accounts and the books and registers to be maintained,
including main and subsidiary account code numbers, have been prescribed.
While the underlying idea of readily having the trial balance and a detailed
analysis of each account cannot be disputed, it is doubtful whether the whole
exercise is worthwhile considering the time, energy and resources involved in
the maintenance of a set of prescribed registers. The unified accounting
system does not provide information which is crucial for proper management, is
labor intensive, and does not meet the requirements of CACB. 1/ CACB's
management recognizes that some refinement and rationalization is feasible but
needs expert assistance in this task.
2.17      The books of account and individual loan account cards are
maintained in CACB manually with the aid of table calculators except for the
Sanaa branch of the now merged NCDB which owns and operates a small computer.
The extent to which mechanization of bookkeeping is feasible and necessary
depends on the modifications that can be introduced to refine the existing
accounting system. The proposed project, therefore, would provide for
consultants to be employed to design an accounting system and install a
computer compatible with CACB's operations and capable of handling the
expected increased load, producing timely loan accounts, improving the billing
procedures and producing a wide range of information necessary for effective
management (para 3.09).
E. Operating Policies and Procedures
2.18      By Act No. 39 of 1982, CACB was established to provide short-,
medium- and long-term financing for the development of agriculture, forestry
1/ The Government has recently relaxed the application of the unified
accounting system to banks.



- 18 -
and fisheries and related activities and to promote and support agricultural
and handicraft cooperative associations and organizations. Eligible borrowers
include individuals, cooperatives, LDA and corporations.  However, the major
thrust of its credit expansion in the future is expected to be the individual
farmers who have good prospects for increasing their production.
2.19      Basic guidelines of CACB lending include:
(a)  that the loan amount should not exceed 75% of the total cost of the
project;
(b)  that the value of the loans be always extended, to the maximum
extent possible, in the form of goods, i.e., to minimize cash
disbursement to borrowers;
(c)  that no loans be made:  (i) for the production of qat; (ii) in cases
where the required loan security is already encumbered; or (iii) to
defaulters of previous loans; and
(d)  that the project be financially viable.
The policy guidelines also include:
(a)  that irrigation loans be made only on the basis of a certificate
from a qualified technician showing adequate water available for
irrigation which is evidenced by pumping tests;
(b)  that no loans should be made for the purchase of tractors larger
than 65 HP and that borrowers be required to have at least 15 ha of
non-irrigated land or 5 ha of irrigated land under cultivation;
(c)  that loans for land development, well drilling, plantations and
other activities that are completed over a period of time be
disbursed in installments following field visits by CACB personnel;
and
(d)  that loans to cooperatives and LDAs must be approved and guaranteed
by CYDA; a feasilility study must be prepared showing the project to
be viable; the loan cannot exceed 50% of the average revenues of the
association over the past three years; the loan cannot be for more
than 50% of the total project cost; the association must disburse
the 50% it furnishes before any loan funds are disbursed; and that
no single loan to a cooperative can exceed 10% of CACB's paid-up
capital.
CACB obtains as security a promissory note for the full amount of the loan,
two personal guarantees for all loans up to YRls 20,000 and a land security
for any loans in excess of that amount. In general, the security requirements
are more than adequate and may even be unnecessarily restrictive for some
needy farmers with limited assets.



- 19 -
2.20      Official adoption of the above guidelines by CACB would be a
condition of disbursement of the credit component including the following
modifications: (a) that, for tenant farmers, the crop would be acceptable as
security for seasonal loans not exceeding YRls 20,000 without the need for
guarantors; and (b) that a financial rate of return of not less than 12% would
be the minimum criteria for subproject acceptability.
Loan Procedures
2.21      Loan applications are made by individuals, agricultural cooperatives
or LDAs. To ensure the seriousness of prospective borrowers, applicants are
required to pay YRls 5 (US$1.1) for the application form and an appraisal fee
to cover the cost of the credit supervisor's visit based on a schedule of fees
ranging from 0.1% to 0.5% of the requested loan amount subject to a minimum of
YRls 25 (USt5.5) and a maximum of YRls 1,000 (US$222.2).
2.22      The evaluation of applications is entrusted to credit supervisors at
the branches who are generally secondary school graduates with no adequate
experience or training for the purpose. Except in areas of IDA-assisted
projects, they hardly receive any technical support and are left to evaluate
loan requests using their own judgement. As part of the loan appraisal for
individuals, for instance, they develop a great deal of very detailed
information for short-, medium- and long-term loans on different forms but
with only minor differences in content.
2.23      Decisions regarding loan approvals appear to have been based almost
entirely on the availability of adequate security with little if any use being
made of the voluminous data collected. Indications are that, with very few
exceptions, loans were approved if applications were accepted and the
information on them proved to be reasonably correct. Instances of loans being
sanctioned without any estimate of the farm's net annual income or on the
basis of incomplete reports are many. Appraisals are often inadequate not
only in the data base but also in the analysis of the available data which is
often carried out in a mechanical fashion. This is primarily due to the lack
of adequate training in how to develop and utilize the data called for in
existing loan procedures. To improve appraisal of loan requests and the
necessary technical skills of CACB staff, the proposed project would provide
for six internationally recruited experts who would assist in the training of
staff and in the preparation of manuals for their guidance (para 3.08).
2.24      It is a recognized principle that a lending institution should be in
a position to ensure that loans to its borrowers are used for the purposes for
which they were sanctioned. CACB's policy which calls for making loans in
kind, requiring invoices for purchases, making payments for capital goods
directly to suppliers, and carrying out inspections to determine progress of
development before disbursement would help to ensure proper use of funds.
However, internal reports show that in practice a significant amount of misuse
of loan funds takes place, and the running record in borrower files indicates
that loan supervision has been erratic and of limited value. Credit
supervisors are not allotted specific areas of responsibility, and visits for
post-credit supervision are not usually made even in cases involving default
in repayment.



- 20 -
2.25       Branch Managers are ressponsible for loan collection and at present
an effort is made at harvest time to contact the borrowers to ensure
collection when the crop is sold. If payment is not made after sale of the
crop, peer pressure is brought to bear and the loan guarantors are informed of
the delinquency. It is reported tlaat the threat of sale of collateral or a
police report are usually sufficient to ensure payment. CACB management
insists that although there are some delays in repayments, all loans are
eventually collected in full. Therefore, to date no loans have been written
off nor is there a procedure for doing so. Nevertheless, the loan recovery
rate which exceeded 90% at the beginning of operations has deteriorated in
1981 to only 55%. However justifiable this deterioration may be, the trend
appears to suggest the need for closer supervision and greater recovery
efforts.
Guarantee Obligations
2.26      Apart from its lending operation, CACB issued guarantees to secure
the obligations of two newly established agri-related enterprises and five
agricultural cooperative societies. Beginning from November 1978, eight such
obligations were undertaken for a total amount of YRls 93.7 million. Although
ACB had to pay CBY in February 1981 a sum of YRls 2.2 million on behalf of one
of the five agricultural cooperative societies for which guarantees for a
total amount of YRls 8.2 million were originally issued, the societies have
since paid their dues thereby releasing CACB from the guarantee obligations.
2.27      The two major guarantee obligations were those undertaken on behalf
of two enterprises, a poultry company and a dairy company. The guarantees
issued on behalf of these two concerns total YRls 85.5 million and constitute
about 50% of CACB's paid-in share capital (78% of ACB's paid-in share capital
prior to the merger). These guarantees cover funds due to CBY from the
poultry company of YRls 63.4 million and an amount of YRls 22.1 million due
from the dairy company to a British exports finance company. For sometime
both concerns have been unable to pay even the interest on their loans
resulting in an ever increasing obligation everytime the interest was
capitalized and added to the principal. Although some of the installments due
have since been paid thereby reducing the amount of contingent liability on
CACB, the Government has taken over all the remaining guarantee obligations
thereby relieving CACB of this responsibility. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that in the future the aggregate amount of guarantees issued and
outstanding by CACB should not, at any time, exceed 10% of its unencumbered
paid-in share capital.
Equity Participations
2.28       In addition to the guaraintees, CACB contributed YRls 24 million to
the equity capital of the same poultry company for which it undertook the
guarantee obligations. The poultry company is a joint venture established
with state participation with a paid-up capital of YRls 66 million. Thus
CACB's shareholding represented a participation of 36% of the poultry
company's share capital and 14% of CACB's paid-up capital of YRls 170 million
(22% of ACB's capital prior to the merger with NCDB). The extent of CACB's



- 21 -
involvement in this one concern was far too excessive which deprived CACB of
the necessary liquidity to carry on its normal lending operations resulting in
the imposition of restriction on all new loans (para 2.33). The Government
has taken over CACB's equity participation in the poultry company and agreed
that in the future the aggregate amount of all equity participations should
not exceed 10% of the unencumbered paid-up capital of CACB provided that any
single participation should not exceed 10% of the paid-up capital of the
enterprise.
Procurement
2.29      Encouraged by the success of the ACF scheme for bulk procurement and
distribution of fertilizers and other farm inputs through village merchants
(appointed by ACF as its agents), for cash or on credit to farmers in the
Southern Uplands under SURDP I, ACB started in 1978 dealing in supply of farm
inputs to farmers in non-project areas. Import of fertilizers and other farm
inputs is arranged by CACB through an established importer at the port town of
Hodeidah. Subsequently, the Government entrusted CACB with the responsibility
for supply of fertilizers received from foreign governments under bilateral
aid. Thus, at present, CACB undertakes supply of farm inputs for its own
account, under IDA-assisted projects and on behalf of MAF. Sales are effected
through village agents appointed by CACB, as well as from CACB's branch
stores, and uniform prices are charged at all points. Agreements are usually
entered into with village merchants and one personal surety acceptable to CACB
whereby expenditures incurred on storage of stocks in their possession have to
be covered by the agent from his commission of 5% while CACB is responsible
for transport costs to the village agent. This scheme of supplying inputs
through village agents is in operation only in Southern Uplands, i.e., the
areas of Taiz and Ibb branches, and marginally in operation in the areas of
Dhamar and Sanaa branches.
2.30      As a follow-up on its input supply activity, CACB entered into an
agreement in May 1980 with Massey Ferguson Ltd of U.K. for purchase of
50 tractors, together with necessary implements, on deferred payment terms
spread over five years under guarantee to the supplier by the U.K.
Government's Export Credit Guarantee Department. The agreement provided for
provision of storage facilities for machinery and stocking of adequate spare
parts by the suppliers' local distributor. Subsequently CACB negotiated the
purchase of 800 Yanmar and Mitsubishi pump engines and 250 Alta brand
irrigation pumps. Thus CACB appears to be widening the scope of its
commercial operations.
2.31      While there is some validity to CACB's arguments regarding higher
prices charged by dealers of input supplies in areas not served by CACB
branches and agents, there is no justification for CACB's involvement in the
direct sale of farm machinery particularly now that there are a sufficient
number of dealers competing for farmers' business. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that CACB would extend its operations for supply of farm
inputs through village agents only and not through its own branches, and that,
while CACB may intervene in the market from time to time in an effort to
stabilize prices of farm machinery and equipment, it will, as a matter of



- 22 -
practice, cease all commercial operations in such machinery and equipment with
the expiry of the present agreements and the final sale of any remaining
stocks.
F. Performance
2.32      A review of CACB's past operations would involve a review of the
operations of its predecessor organizations, ACB, ACF and NCDB. As mentioned
earlier (paras 2.01-2.04), ACF was merged into ACB in July 1980 but the
accounts of both institutions wer,e not integrated until January 1981. In
January 1982, ACB was again merged with NCDB under the name of CACB. These
organizational changes within suc'n a short period, without any prior
preparation, were a major factor in the chaos that erupted following the
latter merger. Staff of NCDB witn no prior experience in agricultural credit
were put in charge of departments, the operations of which they were
unfamiliar with. The effect of these sudden changes on the accounting staff
was more marked as the resulting data proved unreliable and in some instances
produced conflicting reports. For this reason the following review can merely
serve to give a rough picture of these operations.
2.33      CACB's income statements and condensed balance sheets are given in
Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2. Its share capital increased from YRls 46 million in
1977 to YRls 100 million in 1980 and YRls 170 million following the merger at
the close of 1981. To finance any credit needs of farmers outside the
IDA-assisted rural development project areas, CACB had no source of funds
available to it other than its paid-up capital, of which YRls 24 million was
invested in the Mareb Poultry Company (para 2.28). Therefore, excluding this
one heavy investment, amounts locked in fixed assets and the losses incurred
over the years, the amount that remained available to utilize in its lending
activities did not exceed YRls 70 million. In April 1980, CACB was short of
liquid funds and had to issue instructions to some of its branches to limit
lending for tractors and irrigation schemes. This restriction was tightened
in September of the same year by applying it to all branches and putting a
ceiling on all loans of YRls 35,000.  A further restriction was applied later
in the year by instructing all branches to lend only to the extent of their
loan recoveries.  In 1981, all short-term loans for farm inputs outside
IDA-assisted project areas were suspended.  The following table gives the
loans disbursed during the years up to 1981 and serves to illustrate the
difficulties that were encounterecl in later years:
Loans
Short-term   Medium-term   Total
----------(YRls Million)---------
1976/77               5.3             7.4        12.7
1977/78              14.2           26.6        40.8
1978/79              14.8           42.6        57.4
1979/80              20.7           52.9        73.6
Jul-Dec 1980           7.7           11.8        19.5
1981                 10.5           23.9        34.4
Total           73.2          165.2       238.4



- 23 -
2.34       The restrictions on loans during the major part of 1980 and all of
1981 led to deterioration in collections and loan recoveries. Farmers who
became aware that they would be unable to obtain new loans were reluctant to
repay old ones, and the rate of loan recovery which was reported to have
reached almost 95% in the early years of agricultural lending in the mid-1970s
slumped to a mere 55% in 1981. There is no further information available
regarding the number and value of loan applications by year, loans rejected
and loans approved; nor is there any information to express in quantitative
terms the impact of these loans on the agricultural sector measured in numbers
of incremental hectares planted or tons produced.
2.35       NCDB was established in September 1979 to support the cooperative
movement and began its operations in January 1980 with a paid-up capital of
YRls 33 million which stood at December 31, 1981 at YRls 60 million. It also
received deposits from cooperatives and LDAs which as of December 31, 1981
amounted to YRls 60.7 million. NCDB's operations prior to the merger
consisted of issuing letters of guarantee for the implementation of various
projects which, during the two years of its existence, amounted to YRls 9
million; it financed two projects for a total of YRls 3.7 million and provided
overdraft facilities for a total of YRls 8 million. While the former ACB was
starved of funds during a large part of 1980 and the whole of 1981, NCDB
limited its activities to guarantees and overdraft facilities preferring to
have its liquid resources on deposit with commercial banks.
2.36       CACB's results of operations over the years since 1976/77 show that
it has suffered losses ranging from YRls 0.2 million to YRls 1.3 million
except 1979/80 which resulted in a profit of YRls 1.0 million due to
commission received on guarantees amounting to YRls 1.4 million. These losses
were incurred despite the fact that the former ACF branches were assisted by
subsidies received towards staff and other administrative costs from the
different projects. This raises the question whether the interest rate
charged by CACB is sufficient to cover its costs.
2.37       The Government's policy has always favored low rates of interest on
institutional credit to agriculture and resisted any increase in view of the
weakness of the agricultural sector and the Government's keen desire to
support it. These rates fluctuated in recent years between a minimum of 6% on
medium-term loans and a maximum of 12.5% on short-term loans. At present CACB
charges 9% on seasonal loans and 10% on medium-term loans. These rates are
positive in real terms and are likely to remain so as the rate of inflation in
YAR was 3.7% in 1981, is not expected to exceed 8% in 1982 and 1983, and is
projected to decline to 7% in 1984.
2.38       To examine the appropriateness of the interest-rate structure, it is
necessary to consider three elements: CACB's administrative costs, its likely
default risk costs and the cost of its resources used in lending. Each of
these elements is measured irn relation to the average loans outstanding in any
year. Due to the ups and downs of CACB's past operations and the fluctuation
in its outstanding portfolio, it is difficult to establish a relationship
between the administrative costs and the volume of operations. Administrative
costs can only be said to have fluctuated between 12% and 19% as a percentage



- 24 -
of average outstanding portfolio. Moreover, the historical default risk cost
to CACB is difficult to compute, first, because of the absence of any reliable
information and, second, because mianagement insists that, although there may
be delay in repayment, all due amounts are collected in full. This report,
however, assumes that an average provision of 5% of amounts disbursed by CACB
would be sufficient to cover the default risk in the future.  The interest
spread required to cover this cost depends on the mix of loan terms. The
present mix is 65% medium term and 35% short term requiring a spread of about
2.5%. Finally, the cost of funds to CACB, considering government equity and
grants as cost free, average about 1%. Thus the interest rate that would have
been required by CACB to cover the cost of its operations would have ranged
between 15.5% and 22.5%. This leads to the conclusion that CACB's costs,
particularly its administrative costs, are too high and cannot, therefore, be
considered a sound basis in any determination of appropriate interest rates to
be charged by CACB. While a higher interest rate would appear desirable, any
increase would be strongly resisted by the Government. There is some scope
for reducing CACB's operating losses through better use of staff and economy
in administrative costs. However, the main remedy lies in improving its
earning capacity through the expansion of its operations (para 4.06).
2.39      CACB is at present the only credit institution set up and assisted
by the Government for the development of the rural sector. Despite the
difficulties and constraints, CACB has been reasonably successful during the
short span of the last five years in bringing institutional credit to farmers
within its area of operation. With at least a nucleus of staff of
satisfactory capability, and adequate support by the Government, CACB has the
potential to expand its activities in support of rural development.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CACB would continue for the time
being to charge a minimum of 9% on seasonal loans and 10% on medium- and
long-term loans and that the Government would carry out a periodical review of
interest rates charged by CACB at intervals not exceeding two years with the
first such review being completed not later than June 30, 1984.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and General Description
3.01      The principal purpose of the project is to strengthen CACB as an
institution and help develop its capabilities over a period of three years to
provide needed credit for economically viable rural sector projects in an
efficient manner. Three independent studies would be carried out under the
project through short-term consultancies, namely an organization and
procedures study, a mechanized accounting system and a training program. Six
internationally qualified personnel would be recruited for periods of two to
three years each (a total of 15 man-years) to ensure the proper implementation
of these studies (para 3.08). The project specifically includes the following:



- 25 -
I. Institution Building
A. Provision of training for CACB staff in order to improve their
operational efficiency;
B. Strengthening of CACB's organizational structure by:
(i)  Developing an Organization and Procedures Manual and
employment of consultants to develop work routines and define
rules and practices by which CACB staff are to operate;
(ii)  Establishing a Management Information Center with a small
computer suitable for CACB's operations and employment of
consultants to design and implement the computer system; and
(iii)  Assisting CACB in establishing a branch office in Saadah
Governorate; and
C. Strengthening MAF's extension service by assisting in the
establishing of three centers each in Saadah and Hajjah Governorates.
II.  Agricultural Credit Survey
Assisting CACB in carrying out an agricultural credit survey to enable
it to establish priorities for its branch expansion program based on an
assessment of the agricultural credit needs of the different areas.
III.  Credit
Funds would be provided to assist CACB in financing its lending program.
B. Detailed Features
I. Institution Building
3.02  A.  CACB Staff Training
The project's principal focus would be on the training of CACB staff
of all levels; the present arrangements have been described in
paras 2.13-2.15. Several job-oriented training courses and seminars
are envisaged under the project over a 3-year period (Annex 2).
Foremost among these courses are two 6-week courses for senior and
junior credit supervisors whose primary responsibility is loan
making, servicing and collection. Other courses would be a 1-week
course for senior management personnel; a 2-week course for
middle-management personnel; and a 2-week course for accounting and
financial staff. An orientation program of 1-week duration would
also be developed for new recruits.
3.03      It is expected that there would be a need for continued training of
staff as they gain more experience and encounter different



- 26 -
problems. Project monitoring and evaluation would help identify the
specific needs which would be provided in future. The courses would
not run concurrently; 1 course per year would be provided each for
senior management personnel, middle management personnel and
accounting and financial staff with 1 week to 10-day refresher
courses being provided in the following year. Credit supervisors of
all levels would be provided with 2 courses in 2 consecutive years
followed by a refresher course of 7 to 10 days in the third. Due to
the low level of expertise and training, senior credit supervisors
and other senior operational staff would have to complete the basic
course before attempting the advanced course a year later.
Attendance of both courses should be made compulsory on all
operational staff, and the advanced course would be made available
to those of the junior credit supervisors who have successfully
completed the basic course and show a potential for promotion to
increase competition.
3.04      The courses would be job oriented and should enable the participants
to correctly assimilate CACB procedures and systems and management
requirements. Specifically, the in-service training program and
refresher courses would be designed to provide the maximum scope for
problem solving by the participants. Training materials would be
developed using case studies from actual loans financed by CACB.
Loan personnel would make field visits to borrowers with the
objective of collecting the basic information necessary for proper
evaluation of loan requests. Similarly, the participants would be
set the task of making independent supervision visits to borrowers
to report on implementation progress, attendant problems and
possible solutions. Courses for management-level staff would
include in addition to project appraisal and related topics,
subjects relevant for them in their management role. Seminars would
also be used as a regular feature to direct discussions on specific
problems faced by managers in their operations. This would include
topics such as personnel management problems, difficulties in
communication and in receiving agricultural extension or marketing
services. The pooling together of their experience and the sharing
of successful practices would contribute greatly to improving their
performance, to the building up of morale and would provide a forum
for discussions.
3.05      The project would finances 33 man-months of technical assistance
which would include the services of an internationally recruited
training specialist whose terms of reference are satisfactory to the
borrower and the Association for a short-term consultancy of 9 man-
months at an estimated total cost of US$9,000 per man-month. This
training specialist would advise on planning and development of
suitable curriculum and syllabi and would be responsible for the
preparation of the training material for the proposed courses. In
preparing the training m,aterial the training specialist would call
on the services of other specialist staff recruited under the
project such as the Agricultural Credit Adviser, the Management



- 27 -
Adviser and the Financial Controller, all of whom would play an
active role in the training process. In addition, an
internationally qualified trainer with qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment acceptable to the borrower
and the Association would be recruited for a period of two years at
an estimated cost of US$7,000 per man-month 1/ to carry out the
training program assisted whenever necessary or expedient by guest
speakers. Provision has also been made to cover the cost of 18 man-
months of overseas training. To ensure continuity of the training
program, a local counterpart trainer would also be recruited under
the project to understudy the trainer and eventually take over his
responsibilities.
B. CACB Organizational Structure
3.06        (i)  Organization and Procedures
The Planning, Training and Statistics Department would be
responsible for the preparation and updating, on a continuous
basis, of manuals and procedures and for organizing the flow
of information within CACB, the need for which was described
in para 2.10. For this purpose consultants would be employed
(9 man-months at an estimated cost of US$9,000 per man-month)
to define the rules, practices and procedures by which CACB
staff are to operate. The consultants would examine the
organizational structure of CACB, establish controls, and
assist in the preparation of a new procedures manual.
3.07              The Planning, Training and Statistics Department would be
further strengthened through the recruitment of an
internationally qualified Planning and Research Adviser for a
period of three years at an estimated cost of US$7,000 per
man-month 2/ to supervise the implementation of the
consultants' recommendations. It is envisaged that the
Statistics Division, together with the Training Division,
would be responsible for the development and updating of
technical manuals. In this respect, special attention would
be given to the development of simple, basic technical
manuals for each crop and activity financed by CACB. These
would provide information on the types of farm inputs, crop
farming practices, pests and diseases. Suitable farm models
for different climatic conditions and social organization
would also be developed. Examples determining investment
needs of projects, likely problems and the methodology for
project appraisal would be covered. Other internationally
1/ Costs include direct personnel costs, overheads and reimbursable items
such as overseas travel, subsistence and other allowances.
2/ Costs include direct personnel costs, overheads and reimbursable items
such as overseas travel, subsistence and other allowances.



- 28 -
recruited staff provided for under the project at an
estimated cost of US$7,000 per man-month 1/ include a
Management Adviser (24 man-months), a Credit Adviser (36 man-
months), and a Livestock/Poultry specialist (24 man-months)
would also contribute to the development and updating of the
technical and procedures manuals.
3.08              Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all
internationally recruited staff provided for under the
project would have terms of reference, qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association and would be recruited not later
than the dates indicated below:
Technical Assistance Personnel Provided under the Project
Title                     Period           To Be Recruited by
(man-months)
Credit Adviser                           36               June 1983
Financial Controller                     36              June 1983
Planning & Research Adviser              36              June 1983
Trainer                                   24              September 1983
Management Adviser                       24               September 1983
Livestock/Poultry Specialist             24              December 1983
3.09       (ii)  Management Information Center
The project provides for the employment of consultants
(9 man-months at an estimated cost of US$7,800 per
man-month) to prepare and assist in the implementation of a
new accounting system and recommend a small computer
suitable for CACB's operations. Provision is also made for
the procurement and installation of the recommended computer
and the recruitment of a Financial Controller (36 man-months
at US$7,000 per man-month) to head the Finance Department.
The supplier is expected to provide the necessary computer
staff training.
3.10              The center would be part of an integrated information system
in which applications would go beyond the pure accounting
functions to include statistical information. At the outset
this center is expected to be within the jurisdiction of the
Finance Department. However, as the need for other than
financial information grows, the center would eventually be
elevated to a department level.
3.11      (iii)  Saadah Branch Office
The project would assist CACB to establish a new branch in
Saadah town. Funds are provided to meet the cost of
construction of a building to house the branch (300 m2);



- 29 -
also, housing quarters for the Branch Manager (150 mi2) and
a staff rest house (150 m2) both on the second floor of
the office building. The necessary land for this purpose
(2,000 m2) has been made available by the Government.
Provision is also made for office furniture and equipment,
furniture and fixtures for the Manager's residence, two
4-wheel drive vehicles and office operating costs, including
staff salaries.
3.12  C.  MAF's Extension Service
In an effort to assist in the further expansion of the extension
service, funds are provided under the project for the strengthening
of the Governorate Agricultural Office and the establishing of
three extension centers in each of Saadah and Hajjah Governorates.
One center in each would be district center located in Saadah and
Hajjah towns, and the other two would be village centers. Each
district center would have three extension staff, one supervisor
and two agents and the village centers, one agent each. No
problems are expected with the recruitment of personnel for these
offices. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government would recruit two extension supervisors and eight agents
to man these centers not later than December 31, 1983. Funds are
provided for the construction of extension centers and staff
housing, one 4-wheel drive vehicle for each center, and mobile
audio-visual units and equipment for demonstration purposes. The
audio-visual unit and one vehicle would be for the Governorate
Agricultural Office.
3.13      Each extension agent would serve about 300 farm households.  The
extension staff would train farmers in land preparation, water
application, fertilizer and pesticides use and disseminate results
obtained from research through meetings, demonstration plots and
other extension means. They would work in close collaboration with
CACB staff for evaluation of loan applications from farmers and for
follow-up of loans.
II. Agricultural Credit Survey
3.14  The lack of reliable information on agricultural activities and
production in many parts of the country is a major constraint on the
ability of CACB to make any realistic forward planning for expansion of
its operations and to establish priorities for opening of new
branches. The Statistical Department of CPO is planning to carry out a
multipurpose survey beginning in July 1982. This sample survey will be
repeated every July and December for two or three years and is expected
to cover agricultural production, farm labor, mechanization and inputs,
yields, income, expenditure, etc. The results of each sample would be
made available after a period of about six months. CPO is prepared to
include in its questionnaire whatever is needed for a credit survey.



- 30 -
Funds are therefore provided under the project to cover the cost of the
relevant parts to CPO of thie proposed survey.
III.  Credit
3.15  Funds are provided under the project to assist in the financing of
CACB's lending program over the three-year project period (Annex 1,
Table 3). It is intended that this would be in the nature of a pilot
project since it is the first such credit offered to CACB. It is of a
modest size representing only 5% of CACB's projected loan disbursement
during the project period. Certain limits would be placed on the
application of these funds. First, funds under the credit allocated to
seasonal loans would be limited to crops for which there are
established practices and would only be disbursed on an incremental
basis. Lending would also be made in accordance with CACB's policies
and procedures and will be made only to individuals or entities which
meet the normal lending crilteria such as good management, prompt
repayment of previous loans and economic viability of the enterprise.
Loans to any individual or entity would be limited in total to
YRls 300,000. Finally, at least 50% of the credit funds would be made
available for loans in the ithree Governorates where IDA will be
assisting with establishing extension centers, namely the Saadah and
Hajjah Governorates under this project and Dhamar Governorate under the
Agricultural Research and Development Project and the proposed Central
Highlands project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
above limits and conditions would be followed.
C. Project Costs
3.16      Project costs are estimated at YRls 57 million (US$12.7 million) of
which about YRls 34.3 million (US07.6 million) or about 60% represent foreign
exchange requirements.



Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local     Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign       Total    Exchange
---(YRls '000)…---------   ---------               '00) … --------- -
I. Institution Building
A. CACB Staff Training                    1,902.5    1,214.5    3,117.0        422.8      269.9       692.7       39
B. CACB Organizational Improvements    3,544.0    8,024.5   11,568.5           787.6   1,783.2    2,570.8        69
C. MAF Extension Service                  5,769.0    3,340.0    9,109.0   1,282.0         742.2    2,024.2       37
II. Agricultural Credit Survey                  450.0        -          450.0      100.0       -          100.0        -
III. Credit                                    8,100.0   18,900.0   27,000.0   1,800.0   4,200.0    6,000.0            70
Total Base Line Cost                          19,765.5   31,479.0   51,244.5   4,392.4   6,995.3   11,387.7            61
Contingencies:
Physical                                     1,166.5    1,259.0    2,425.5        259.2      279.8       539.0       52
Price                                        1,665.0    1,597.0    3,262.0        370.0      354.9       724.9       49
Total Project Cost                            22,597.0   34,335.0   56,32.0   5,021.6   7,630.0   12,651.6             60



- 32 -
3.17      Costs have been estimated at prices expected to prevail in November
1982. Physical contingencies of 10% have been included for all project costs
except the credit component. Allowances for price contingency have been
applied to all project costs except the credit component at 8% for 1983 and 7%
for 1984 and 1985 for both local and foreign exchange costs.
D. Financing
3.18      Financing of project costs would be as follows:
Total Financing       Government           IDA
Local  Foreign  Total        Local     Local  Foreign
7US$ MilTiT  -------------------
I. Institution Building
CACB                      1.6     2.5      4.1         1.5       0.1      2.5
MAF                       1.5     1.0      2.5         1.3       0.2      1.0
II. Agricultural Credit
Survey                   0.1       -       0.1        0.1         -        -
III. Credit                    1.8     4.2      6.0         1.8         -      4.2
Total               5.0      7.7    12.7         4.7        0.3      7.7
The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million would be on standard IDA terms to
the Government of YAR and would finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs and
6% of local costs or about 63% of total costs.  The balance of local costs of
US04.7 million, representing 94% of local costs or about 37% of total costs,
would be provided by the Government. Funds provided for technical assistance
to CACB and MAF would be provided as a grant while funds for the credit
component would be onlent by the Government to CACB at a rate not exceeding 2%
per annum repayable over 25 years including a five-year grace period. The
conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and CACB,
incorporating the above terms and conditions in a form satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
E. Procurement
3.19      Procurement would be in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines:
(a)  Buildings comprise CACB branch office building and staff housing
(US$0.4 million) as well as office buildings and staff housing for
the extension centers of MAF (US$l.2 million). Because of the small
size and scattered nature of these buildings, they are unlikely to
attract international bidders. Therefore, the contracts for
buildings would be awarded in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures whicla are satisfactory.
(b) Vehicles (US$0.3 million) would be procured by international
competitive bidding (ICB).



- 33 -
(c) Office furniture and equipment (US$0.2 million) would be bulked to
the maximum extent possible and procured through local competitive
bidding.
(d) Consultants to establish the necessary manuals and develop a staff
training program, consultants to review the organizational structure
and establish new routines and procedures, and consultants to
examine CACB's accounting and management information system and
recommend a suitable computer (US$0.3 million) would be chosen in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines for selection of consultants.
(e) Computer hardware (US$0.4 million) would be procured in a manner to
be decided in consultation with IDA after the recommendations of the
consultants are known.
(f) The items to be financed under the subloans are small and varied and
would not be suitable for bulk procurement through ICB. However,
there is adequate competition, both international and national, in
offering goods through the normal supply channels which buyers would
use. Procurement of these items would therefore be through the
normal commercial channels.
3.20      Draft tender documents for all contracts, expected to cost in excess
of US$100,000, would be submitted to IDA for approval before invitations are
issued. Bid analysis and recommendations for award would be submitted to IDA
for comment before contracts are awarded. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the above procedure would be followed.
F. Disbursement
3.21      The IDA credit of US$8.0 million would be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures for
vehicles (USt0.3 million) and computer hardware and software (US$0.4
million);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures of short-term consultants
(27 man-months, US$0.3 million), internationally recruited staff
(180 man-months, US$1.6 million) and overseas training (18 man-
months, USt0.05 million);
(c) 70% of office furniture and equipment (US$0.2 million);
(d) 60% of civil works (US$l.6 million); and
(e) 70% of the new loans made by CACB (US$6.0 million).
3.22      Disbursements against vehicles, computer hardware and software,
consultants, furniture and office equipment, and civil works by contracts
would be fully documented. Disbursements against credit for on-farm



- 34 -
development would be against stataments of expenditures signed by the Chairman
of CACB specifying (i) the regions where the subloans are made, (ii) that for
seasonal input loans such subloans are incremental to the total previous
year's loans, and (iii) that no flunds were received from any other source to
cover the same portion being disbujrsed. The documentation relating to the
statements of expenditures, which would not be submitted to IDA, would be
retained by CACB for inspection by supervision missions. A schedule showing
the estimated pattern of disbursenent of the IDA credit is presented in Annex
4. The estimated annual disburseiments are as follows:
IDA Fiscal Year
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
---- TUSs Million)-----
Annual:       IDA               0.3    3.4    2.8    1.2    0.3
Government        0.1    2.3    1.6    0.5    0.2
Cumulative:  IDA                0.3    3.7    6.5    7.7    8.0
Government        0.1    2.4    4.0    4.5    4.7
1/  Includes PPF of US$0.l million.
3.23      The disbursement profile for the proposed project has been compared
with regional subsectoral disbursiement profiles for agricultural credit
projects and rural development projects and the disbursement profiles for YAR
rural development projects.  The proposed project profile was also compared to
Bank-wide agriculture credit subsector profile. The profiles mentioned show
the following characteristics:
No. of            50% Disbursed Year
Class                         Projects          from Date of Approval
EMENA Region:
Agricultural Credit Projects                  7             3rd year, second half
Rural Development Projects                    6             4th year, second half
YAR Rural Development Projects                2             4th year, second half
Bank-wide:
Agriculture Credit subsector                 42             4th year, first half
Under the proposed project it is estimated that 50% of the IDA credit would be
disbursed during the second year second half due to large front-end
expenditure on the institution bu:ilding component of the project which is
concentrated in the first year of project implementation.
G. Accounts, Audit and Reports
3.24      Separate accounts geared to produce information and control relating
to subloans financed under this project would be kept by CACB. CACB's
accounts are presently audited by a local auditor whose audits are not, at
present, satisfactory to the Association. Assurances were obtained at



- 35 -
negotiations that the above accounts would be maintained, that CACB's accounts
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that the
accounts and auditors' report would be submitted to the Association within
six months of the end of CACB's fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained at
negotiations that CACB would submit quarterly statements with a progress
report within three months of the end of each quarter and that, within six
months of the end of the project period, CACB's management would prepare and
submit to IDA a project completion report.
H. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.25      An indication of the role of monitoring and evaluation has been
given in discussing CACB's operating policies and procedures (para 2.24). The
Planning, Training and Statistics Department has as one of its functions the
collection of statistical data for effective management, a task at present not
attempted. The project would strengthen the Planning and Statistics Divisions
by the recruitment of a Planning and Research Adviser who would be responsible
for streamlining the collection of data, the proper evaluation of this data as
a tool for effective management, and the development of technical manuals on
the basis of actual findings (para 3.07).
IV. PROSPECTS, FARMER BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
4.01      The merger of ACB and NCDB into CACB is but one evidence of the
Government's increasing emphasis on the development of the rural sector. The
principal purpose of the proposed assistance to CACB is to strengthen it as an
institution. For this purpose training of CACB staff at all levels would be
of major importance. The strengthening of CACB under the project is expected
to yield a number of dividends; at the most basic level it would allow CACB
staff to fulfill routine demands which must be carried out by any financial
institution. The streamlining of its organizational structure and the
installation of a computer compatible with the size of its operations would
give the added advantage of production of wide range of information necessary
for effective management. CACB's loan collection problems may well depend on
increased awareness of the role played by rural credit, and efforts to
encourage repayment through the political channels would be extremely valuable
at all levels, but it would also be essential for CACB to possess up-to-date
information on its borrowers and their activities. Further, by use of the
threat of withholding any financing to an area if adequate extension services
are not provided, CACB can act as a positive force in coordinating extension
services and increasing rural productivity.
A. Prospects
4.02      The brief history of CACB and its predecessor organizations
discussed in paras 2.32-2.37 serves to illustrate the difficulty in using
historical data in this instance as a guide for future operations. The gap
between total lending in 1981 of about YRls 35 million and actual
disbursements in less than three months in 1982 of YRls 17 million following



- 36 -
the merger with NCDB and the influx of liquid funds resulting in the removal
of all loan restrictions imposed previously shows a positive trend towards a
significant increase in lending activities. l/ This is supported by the fact
that loan applications received in the first four months of 1982 aggregated
YRls 84 million. In view of this unprecedented demand, the future lending
plans (Annex 1, Table 3) prepared by CACB appear justifiable.
4.03      Financial projections were prepared for CACB based on the following
assumptions (Annex 1, Tables 1, 2, and 4):
(a)  All new subloans made at an average annual interest rate of 9.5%
which is a simple average of the rates applied by CACB (para 2.37);
(b)  Default risk cost was calculated at 5% of annual disbursements of
agricultural loans (para 2.38) and provided for in the year the
funds were disbursed. Loans to cooperatives and LDAs were
considered risk free since they are guaranteed by CYDA;
(c)  Eighty percent of all loans are assumed to be recovered in the year
the amounts fall due. An additional 10% is assumed to be recovered
in the following year and 5% in the second year. Total repayment in
all cases assumed at 95%;
(d)  Interest income on funds on deposit with banks was assumed to be 7%
p.a. on the average balance during the year;
(e)  The credit component under the project of YRls 27 million (US$ 6
million) would be onlent by Government to CACB at 2% annual interest
rate repayable over 25 years including a five-year grace period; and
(f)  The combined operating costs of ACB and NCDB are expected to decline
following the merger by about 10% due to savings on office space,
etc. These costs were assumed to remain constant since CACB is at
present overstaffed. Additional staff to meet the increased volume
of lending would be recruited in 1985.
4.04      Demand deposits accepted primarily by NCDB from cooperatives and
LDAs have been kept out of the projections since these represent funds payable
on demand and are not, therefore, available for agricultural lending.
4.05      The projections show that under the above assumptions CACB would
need additional funds particularly during the last year of the project. This
depends to a large degree on CACB's ability to achieve the projected
disbursements. With the increasing long-term liabilities of CACB under this
project as well as under other IDA assisted projects, the equity base would
relatively decrease. However, the debt/equity ratio does not fall below
1/ According to the Act establishing CACB, the unpaid capital of YRls 130
million would be paid in over the years: 1982, YRls 70 million; 1983,
YRls 40 million; and 1984, YRls 20 million.



- 37 -
30:70, and, even if the additional amounts required to maintain a cash balance
equal to two months disbursements are brought in as loans rather than equity,
this ratio does not fall below 40:60. This gives CACB a sound equity base and
adequate cushion against any possible erosion due to portfolio losses.
4.06      An average interest portfolio of 9.5% p.a. would only be sufficient
to allow CACB to show positive results after the volume of its operations is
sufficiently increased to meet these costs. Although there are no reliable
data to allow for a proper assessment of staff capacity, it is recognized that
CACB is overstaffed and, with the new emphasis on staff training, can handle
considerably more lending operations than at present. Based on the previous
discussions of CACB's breakeven point (para 2.38) and assuming a 5% default
risk cost on annual disbursements and a debt/equity ratio of 40:60 at an
annual interest rate of borrowed funds of 2%, CACB would need a spread of 3.6%
to cover those two costs. This leaves an average annual revenue of 5.9% to
cover its operating costs. Under the above-mentioned assumptions, CACB is
unlikely to reach a breakeven point until it has sufficiently built up its
loan portfolio to about YRls 500 million. The positive results achieved
before reaching that level according to the projections are mainly due to the
fees collected on applications, commission on guarantees, and interest
received on bank deposits which help to supplement its income from normal
lending operations. CACB's ability to generate a surplus would depend to a
large degree on its ability to increase its volume of operations without a
matching increase in costs.
B. Farmer Benefits
4.07      Three farm models were developed (Annex 5); these are:
(i) The first model represents an investment in a tractor and equipment
combined with increased input use. The return from this model is
primarily dependent on the amount of hired tractor work done by the
borrower, but, as a condition for making a loan, it is expected that
CACB would insist on the farmer using improved crop inputs to
increase production on his farm.
(ii)  The second model is concerned with new irrigation.  In this model a
change from rainfed farming to pump irrigated farming has been
considered. By the introduction of irrigation, the cropping pattern
would change. Since increased production of high value crops such
as fruit and vegetables are likely to take place in irrigated farms,
an investment in a vineyard has been integrated in this model.
(iii) The third model deals with a farm in which an existing pump is
replaced combined with increasing use of farm inputs and technology.
4.08      In all cases it was assumed that extension support would be provided
and that land preparation would be done by mechanized equipment. In
accordance with the free market economy policies pursued by the Government,
generally no price control is exercised on agricultural commodities.
Exceptions to this general rule are cotton and imported food items. Marketing



- 38 -
margins of imported food commodities are fixed by the Ministry of Trade and
Supply both at the wholesale and retail market levels. Although market
markups are fixed, since there is no effective control, prices tend to be
higher and generally reflect the market forces.
4.09      The results of this ana'Lysis are summarized below:
Farm Models
1            2           3
Investment (YRls)                 130,000       26,000       8,300
Incremental Revenue (YRls)         35,000        8,300       4,630
FRR                                 19%           20%         30%
4.10      Farm income for farm moiel 1 would increase about 100% at full
development, which has been estimated to take five years. The financial rate
of return would be 19%. In this model, an important source of gross revenue
is tractor hire charge. The repo:rted prevailing charge of YRls 60/hr for
tractor hire is on the low side, considering that investment and operating
costs including depreciation are relatively high.
4.11      In the second farm mode:L, which involves change from rainfed single
crop to irrigated multicrop farming, the increase in farm income would be
about 25 times. Full crop development in this case would take eight years.
Further, the investment cost in a grape vineyard, which is included in the
model, is high and is not expected to give a net return until the fifth year.
The financial rate of return is 20% over 25 years.
4.12      In the third farm model,, which shows the beneficial impact of modern
technology and the increased use of farm inputs, farm income would
approximately double at full deve'Lopment over five years. The financial rate
of return would be about 30% over 10 years.
C. Economic Benefits and Justification
4.13      Approximately one-half of the cost of the proposed project would be
incurred in the provision of technical assistance and operational support to
CACB and to MAF extension service. Those expenditures would finance staff
training, organizational improvements, and a management information center for
CACB. In addition, the project would provide for the establishment of a CACB
branch office in Saadah Governorate and three extension centers in each of
Saadah and Hajjah Governorates. l'hese expenditures would therefore be in the
nature of institution building to provide credit and extension services, with
no direct economic benefits readily identifiable as accruing from them.
Consequently, no rigorous economic cost benefit analysis has been attempted.
Extension and credit, however, together with applied research, have been
singled out as the key inputs needed in the YAR to bring about the
Government's goal of achieving a significant vertical expansion of
agricultural production during the Second Five Year Plan, 1982-1986.
4.14      The proposed project would also provide funds for extending credit
to farmers in years 2 and 3, and the completion of a credit survey that would



- 39 -
also be project financed. The previous section of this report dealing with
farm models detailed three types of operations that might be financed under
the proposed project, consisting of (i) investment in machinery and increased
use of annual inputs, (ii) investment in new irrigation equipment, and
(iii) replacement of irrigation equipment and increased annual inputs.
Expected financial rates of return would range from 19% to 30% yielding
economic rates of return of the order of 20% to 32%.
4.15      The justification of the proposed project lies not in the
demonstrably high economic rate of return but in its contribution to building
up the institutional capability of YAR to provide credit facilities and
extension services to farmers in line with the perceived requirements for
agricultural sector growth.
D. Risks
4.16      The project is not without risks; but the risks are basically those
attached to the credit component, i.e., the problem of credit recovery. CACB
has the arduous task ahead of educating farmers in the concept of credit. Its
management aims at reaching the small farmer through new farmers' cooperatives
in an effort to reduce administrative costs and bring peer pressure to bear on
any delinquent member of the group to avoid any cutting off of future loans.
CACB management feels that they are entrusted with public funds for which they
are accountable and which must be repaid in full. Therefore, they intend to
enforce repayment by any means at their disposal including foreclosure. If
all or any of these measures can bring borrowers to realize that a loan must
be repaid, then the risks would have been reduced to a minimum.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      Agreement having been reached on the various issues referred to in
Chapters II and III of this report, and subject to the condition of
effectiveness described in para 3.18 and the condition of disbursement
described in para 2.20, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$8.0
million.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank Income Statements
(YRls Million)
-----A-------------AUDITED-------------------            UNAUDITED   ESTIMATED   ----------------PROJECTED---------------
1976/77    1977/78   1978/79   1979/80       1980 /1       1981          1982       1983    1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
(Jul-Dec)
INCOME
Interest:
- Loans                                0.5         2.7        5.7        7.9         3.8         13.3          13.5       22.3    29.9   37.6   42.9   45.6   46.6
- Bank deposits                        0.7         1.3        0.7                                15.8           3.7        2.6     2.2    2.5    2.8    2.8    2.8
Profit on Commercial Activities           0.1        0.1        0.7        0.9         0.9          0.9           0.8        0.8      0.8    0.8
Contributions                             0.1        1.9        3.3        2.4         0.8           1.3                     4.3      3.7    3.0
Other Income                              0.4        0.4        0.1        3.0 /2      1.5           1.0          1.0        1.0      1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Total income                        1.8        6.4        10.5       14.2         7.0         32.3         19.0        31.0    37.6   44.9   46.7   49.4   50.4
EXPENSES
Administrative                          2.5        5.9        9.8       10.6         5.8         22.9          19.7       23.5    22.6   27.4   25.8   25.8   25.8
Interest on Borrowings                 0.3        0.5         1.1        1.4         0.5          1.7           1.8        1.9      1.8    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1          ,
Provisions;
- For doubtful debts                                                                              0.7           2.7        3.2     4.2    5.6    5.6    5.6    5.6
- Other                                0.1        0.2         0.9        1.2         1.9          2.9           2.3        2.8     3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1    3.1
Total expenses                      2.9        6.6        11.8       13.2         8.2         28.2         26.5        31.4    31.7   38.2   36.6   36.6   36.6
NET INCOME                               (1.1)      (0.2)      (1.3)       1.0        (1.2)          4.1         (7.5)      (0.4)    5.9    6.7   10.1   12.8   13.8
Ratios:
As % of average portfolio.
- Interest on loans                                8.3        8.5        7.8         7.3         15.0           9.5        9.5      9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5    9.4
- Interest on borrowings                           1.5        1.6        1.4         1.0           1.9          1.2        0.8      0.6    0.5    0.5    0.4    0.4
- Administrative costs                            18.3       14.6       10.5        11.2         25.9          13.8       10.0      7.2    6.9    5.7    5.4    5.2
- Bad and doubtful debts                                                                          0.8           1.9        1.4      1.3    1.4    1.2    1.2    1.1
- Net income                                                             1.0                      4.6                               1.9    1.7    2.2    2.6    2.8
/1  In 1980, Government decided to change the fiscal year to coincide with the calendar year beginning 1981.                                                                 fD
/2  Includes commission on guarantees of YRls 1.4 million.                                                                                                                   4- -



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank Condensed Balance Sheets
(YRls Million)
---------------------AUDITED---------------------   UNAUDITED   ESTIMATED   ------------------PROJECTED------------------
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80    1980 /L            1981         1982       1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
(Jul-Dec)
Loan Portfolio                       14.7        49.9       84.0      117.9        89.4          87.7        197.1      273.3   355.9   435.9   468.5   488.8   502.9
Less; Provision for
Doubtful Debts                          _                                               0.7          3.4        6.6    10.8    16.4    22.0    27.6    35.2
Net Loan Portfolio              14.7       49.9       84.0      117.9         89.4         87.0        193.7       266.7   345.1   419.5   446.5   461.2   467.7
Fixed Assets                           0.6        1.5        3.9        9.4        10.3          18.6         18.6       22.3    22.3    22.3    22.3    22.3    22.3
Investments                                                  4.8       12.0        13.8          24.0         24.0       24.0
Current Assets:
Investments                         0.6         9.6       12.2        7.8         9.7         21.5          21.5       21.5    21.5    21.5    21.5    21.5    21.5
Sundry Debts                                               0.4        0.5         2.3           5.8          5.8        9.7    12.9    16.7    20.5    24.1    30.2
Other Debt balances                  2.9        4.2       23.0       12.4        18.2         18.2          18.2       18.2    18.2    18.2    18.2    18.2    18.2
Cash and Bank Balances             39.8       48.2        23.0       16.0         7.8         65.7          43.8       31.5    35.8    40.0    40.0    40.0    44.3            -
Total Current Assets            43.3       62.0       58.6       36.7         38.0        111.2          89.3       80.9    88.4    96.4   100.2   103.8   114.2
Less: Current Liabilities              5.8       17.3       24.2       21.8        16.2           8.9          7.8        5.2      5.2      5.2      5.2      5.2      5.2
Net Current Assets              37.5       44.7       34.4        14.9        21.8        102.3          81.5       75.7    83.2    91.2    95.0    98.6   109.0
Total Assets                         52.8        96.1      127.1      154.2       135.3         231.9        317.8      388.7   450.6   533.0   563.8   582.1   599.0
Financed by:
Long-Termn Liabilities              3.0        17.4       28.0       45.2        23.3         42.9          64.0       92.5   123.0   160.1   160.6   160.6   160.6
Government Grants                   4.3         8.4        7.6       11.6        10.1          10.1         10.1       10.1    12.5    48.0    65.1    67.5    67.5
Share Capital /2                   46.1        70.9       92.5       96.2       100.0        170.0         240.0      280.0   300.0   300.0   300.0   300.0   300.0
Retained Earnings                  (0.7)       (0.9)      (2.2)      (1.2)       (2.4)          1.7         (5.8)      (6.2)   (0.3)    6.4    16.5    29.3    43.1
Reserves and Provisions             0.1         0.3        1.2        2.4         4.3           7.2          9.5       12.3    15.4    18.5    21.6    24.7    27.8
Total                         52.8       96.1      127.1      154.2       135.3         231.9        317.8      388.7   450.6   533.0   563.8   582.1   599.0
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                    6:94        18:82    22:78       29:71       17:83         18:82        20:80      24;76   28;72   30:70   28;72   27;73   27;73
/i  In 1980, the Government decided to change the fiscal year to coincide with the calendar year beginning 1981.
/2  According to the Act establishing CACB, the unpaid capital of YRls 130 million would be paid in over the years;  1982, YRls 70 million; 1983,
YKls 40 million; and 1984, YRls 20 million.



- 42 -                                      ANNEX I
Table 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cooperative and ligricultural Credit Bank
Allocation of Funds I)uring Second Five Year Plan
(YRls '000)
Description                      1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
I. SHORT-TERM LOANS
Fertilizers                                 6,680      8,090    10,850    13,890    13,890
Improved Seeds                              6,500      8,400    12,800    18,300    18,300
Insecticides & Sprayers                     2,750      3,700      6,150     8,900      8,900
Operational Costs                          17,040    21,970    40,650    64,180    64,180
Poultry & Livestock Feed                    4,500      6,500      7,500     8,500      8,500
Fisheries                                   2,000      2,000      2,000      2,500     2,500
Education Projects                          1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000
Health Projects                             2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000     2,000
Road Projects                               1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000
Water Supply Projects                       1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000
Electricity Projects                        1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000
Tools & Equipment                           3,000      3,000      4,000     4,000      4,000
Handicrafts Cooperatives                    1,000      1,000      1,000      3,000     3,000
Total                                49,470    60,660    90,950   129,270   129,270
II. MEDIUM-TERM LOANS
Irrigation Projects                        14,500    18,100    24,100    27,000    27,000
Agricultural Tractors                       9,500    11,000    13,500    14,500    14,500
Harvesters                                    750        750        750      1,250     1,250
Livestock Projects                          3,900      4,400      4,400     5,400      5,400
Poultry Projects                            8,500      8,500      8,000     8,500      8,500
Land Reclamation & Improvement              9,470      9,470      9,160     9,770      9,770
Tree Planting                               4,000      3,200      5,000     4,800      4,800
Storage of Agricultural Products              500        500        500        500       500
Means of Agricultural Transportation          500        500        500        500        500
Fisheries Development                       4,600      5,400      4,800     8,350      8,350
Agricultural Cooperatives                  10,000    10,000    11,000    12,000    12,000
Education Projects                          2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000     2,000
Roads Projects                              2,000      2,000      2,000      2,000     2,000
Water Supply Projects                       1,000      1,000      2,000      2,000     2,000
Electricity Projects                        1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000
Machinery & Equipment                       7,000      8,000      8,000      8,000     8,000
Handicrafts Cooperatives                    4,000      5,000      5,000      5,000     5,000
Others                                      3,000      3 00        ,000      3,000     3,000
Total                                 86,220    93,820   104,710   115,570   115,570
Grand Total                          135,690   154,480   195,660   244,840   244,840



- 43 -                                 ANNEX 1
Table 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank Projected Cash Flow
(YRls Million)
1982     1983     1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
CASH INFLOW
Loan Collection
- Principal                 26.2      78.2    113.1   164.8   212.2   224.5   230.7
- Interest                  12.5     20.0      26.8    34.2    39.6    42.5    44.4
Other Income
- Commission & fees          1.0       1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
- Commercial activities      0.8       0.8      0.8     0.8
- Interest on deposits       3.7       2.6      2.2     2.5      2.8     2.8      2.8
External Loans/Credits
- Existing commitments      21.1      20.6     17.0    23.6      0.5
- This project                         7.9     17.2    16.5
- New requirements /1                           2.4    35.5    17.1      2.4
Government
- Capital contribution      70.0     40.0      20.0
- Sale of investments                          24.0
Total Cash Inflow       135.3    171.1    224.5   278.9   273.2   273.2   278.9
CASH OUTFLOW
Loan Disbursement          135.7    154.5    195.7   244.8   244.8   244.8   244.8
Loan Repayment
- Principal                                                                       1.4
- Interest                                      0.1     0.4      0.5     0.5      0.5
Project Costs                          7.9      3.7     3.0
Operating Costs             21.5      21.0     20.7    26.5    27.9    27.9    27.9
Total Cash Outflow      157.2    183.4    220.2   274.7   273.2   273.2   274.6
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)            (21.9)   (12.3)      4.3     4.2      0.0     0.0      4.3
Opening Cash Balance          65.7      43.8     31.5    35.8    40.0    40.0    40.0
Closing Cash Balance          43.8      31.5     35.8    40.0    40.0    40.0    44.3
,i  Represents cash requirements to maintain a cash balance equal to 2 months
disbursement.



- 44 -                                 ANNEX 2
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Training Program
Schedule of Courses
1983     1984      1985
1. Basic Program for Credit Supervisors (6 weeks)              X         X         X
2. Advanced Program for Credit Supervisors (6 weeks)                     X         X
3. Refresher Program for Senior Credit Supervisors
(7 to 10 days)                                                                  X
4. Refresher Program for Junior Credit Supervisors
(7 to 10 days)                                                                  X
5. Senior Management Seminar (1 week)                           X        X         X
6. Mid-Level Management Seminar (2 weeks)                       X        X         X
7. Bookkeeping and Accounting for Accounting
and Financial Personnel (2 weeks)                           X         X         X



- 45 -                                ANNEX 2
1.        The following outline presents the general content of the proposed
training courses. Certain basic considerations should be kept in mind in the
design of all programs. They must not be paced too lightly so that the
participants are bored and lose interest nor should they be lightly scheduled
and heavy with information that the participants suffer from an information
overload. This is a delicate balance that can only be achieved through
experience. Moreover, practice evaluation and feedback will indicate the
right degree of emphasis on the different topics suggested for the courses.
2.        In the conduct of the courses, it would be preferable that the
training programs are provided in four sessions of approximately one and
one-half hours each per day. The training participants should not spend part
of the day in routine operational duties as in such combinations training
usually suffers. The programs should use an adequate mix of teaching methods
such as case studies, exercise, group work, role playing, and learning through
work experience.
3.        Although, in general, all courses should cover the topics outlined
below, the difference would be in the depth of coverage, e.g., the advanced
course for credit supervisors would cover the same topics as the basic
course. The main differnce would be increased depth in the coverage of
certain technical aspects, a greater reliance on practice through exercises,
cases and live situations and the introduction of some new topics especially
in the area of project appraisal.
Subject                  Description
1.  General                  Agricultural production and the rural economy of
YAR. Rural development plans and goals,
constraints, and the role of credit. Financial
institutions in YAR, their roles and activities.
2.  Rural Production          Technical aspects in the production of crops,
food crops such as wheat, maize, etc., and cash
crops such as coffee. Livestock development,
range management, controlled grazing, forage
production, disease control, and feeding
practices. Dairy farming, poultry production,
chick selection, feeding, disease control, and
marketing. Fishing and small-scale cottage
industries.
3.  Markets                  Local and export markets, demand, supply, prices
and marketing channels such as cooperatives,
their roles, organization and practices.



- 46 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 3
4.  Extension and             Objectives of extension, methods and organization.
Research                 Agricultural research, research institutes,
findings and coordination of extension with
research. Identification and use of modern
adapted farm technology, improved seeds, use of
chemical fertilizers, tillage systems and soil
preparation, crop response, soil types, cost and
benefit calculations, optimal input levels,
incremental value, farmer response, goals and
targets, use of pesticides, harvesting and
storage.
5.  Irrigation and            Impact on crop production, farming practices,
Water Management         small-scale irrigation projects and their
financing.
6.  Farm Economy              Farm inventory, balance sheet, gross and net
outputs, incomes, return to capital, return in
lieu of wages, farm plan and budgets.
Construction of different farm models.
7.  CACB                      History and background, objectives of CACB,
policies, procedures and organization. Future
prospects, annual plan, medium- and long-term
goals and strategies, and organizational
problems. Reaching farmers through news media,
LDA meetings and extension personnel. Loan
application procedures, criteria on eligibility,
the application form, supplementary information
and use of information. Types of projects to be
financed. Administrative procedures.
8.  Bookkeeping and           Refresher of commercial arithmetic and interest
Accounting                calculations.  Concept of bookkeeping and
accounting. Nature of business transactions and
records. Cash book, reconciliation, journal
vouchers, ledgers, accounts and adjustments.
Balance sheet, assets and liabilities and their
classification. Profit and loss statement.
Budgeting and cost analysis.
9.  Project Formulation,    Project conception, indentification and
Appraisal and             preparation.  Project examples, design, technical
Analysis                  feasibility and technical coefficients.  Project
management and organization, implementation,
manpower training, etc. Financial aspects, cost
estimates, revenue estimates, capital outlay,



- 47 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 4
sources of funds, debt and equity, cost of
finance, project cash flows, net flows,
incremental flows, discounted cash flows,
paybacks, NPV, B/C ratio, IRR, etc. Loan
supervision, follow-up, loan collection systems
and recovery of arrears.
10.  Management                Principles of organization, work simplification,
planning, communication, management information
system, report design, key factor analysis, human
behavior and leadership.
4.   It is expected that the course would be practice-oriented and involve the
participants in the learning experience to the maximum extent possible. The
topics covered in items 1-7 would be most appropriate for lecture-type
presentation with complimentary reading, appropriate field visits with
sufficient time for questions and discussion. The topics covered in item 8
must be designed and delivered with a large number of case exercises. For
item 9, the participants would be presented with case studies. Item 10 can
accommodate a certain amount of role playing.



- 48 -                             ANNEX a
App"Nrux 1
INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED TRAINING STAFF
Terms of Reference
A. Training Consultant
Job Description
(a) Develop and prepare suitable curricula and syllabi together with all
training material for staff at various levels in CACB taking into
consideration the genera'l outline of content of courses discussed
earlier.
(b) Establish criteria for evaluation of the effectiveness of the
proposed training courses.
(c) Formulate guidelines for the benefit of the trainers who would
assume the responsibility of conducting the training courses.
Qualifications
(a) A Master's degree in the fields of economics, agricultural
economics, or agriculture and finance. Ph.D. is preferred.
(b) A minimum of 10 years experience in a senior position in
institutions dealing with agricultural credit operations in
developing countries of which at least five years would be in
designing and conducting training programs for agricultural credit
personnel.
(c) Knowledge and expereience in planning, designing, and preparing
appropriate course material.
Duration of Post
This assignment is suitable for one person for approximately
nine months or for a firm for a total of nine man-months.
B. Trainer
Job Description
(a) Organize and conduct the training courses designed by the training
consultant.



- 49 -                             ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
(b) Prepare case studies and plan field visits for trainees.
(c) Ensure that any individuals involved in teaching have adequate
knowledge of teaching methods.
(d) Provide necessary guidance to other trainers.
(e) Monitor project appraisals and supervision work with a view to
develop the training program to specifically meet and correct
observed weaknesses.
(f) Monitor and evaluate the in-house training provided and modify
programs and contents based on the evaluation of changing
requirements.
(g) Develop an information base for CACB operations including books,
journals, data sources, and statistics.
(h) Call on other experts in CACB to join in the training effort and to
prepare case studies in their respective areas of specialization.
(i) Coordinate the activities of the Training Division with other
divisions in the Planning, Training and Statistics Department.
Qualifications
(a) A university degree in economics, commerce or related fields.
(b) A minimum of five years experience in a senior position in an
agricultural credit institution in a developing country of which not
less than three years experience is in training of agricultural
credit personnel.
(c) Knowledge of Arabic preferred.
Duration of Post
Two years allowing for a three-month overlapping period with the
Training Consultant.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
(YRIs '000)
Year I                Year 2                 Year 3                   Total             Grand      Foreign
Local     Foreign    Local       Foreign    Local       Foreign       Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange
I. Institution Building
A. CACB Staff training:
Consultants                                    364.5                                                                 364.5       364.5       100
Salaries & benefits               466.0        188.0      724.0       358.0      705.0       188.0    1,895.0        734.0    2,629.0         28
Support facilities                   7.5       116.0                                *                      7.5       116.0       123.5        94
Sub-total             473.5       668.5       724.0      358.0       705.0       188.0    1,902.5    1,214.5    3,117.0           39
B. CACB Organizational Improvements
(i) Systems & Procedures:
Consultants                             364.5                                                                 364.5       364.5       100
Salaries & benefits         133.0    1,190.0       152.0    1,360.0        95.0       850.0       380.0    3,400.0    3,780.0          90
Support facilities          119.0       274.0      108.0        54.0      108.0        54.0       335.0       382.0       717.0        53
(ii) M.I.C.:* 
Consultants                             315.0                                                                 315.0       315.0        100
Salaries & benefits          38.0       340.0       38.0       340.0       38.0       340.0       114.0    1,020.0    1,134.0          90               1
Accounting machines         160.0    1,440.0                                                      160.0    1,440.0    1,600.0           90              U
Support facilities           39.0        89.0       36.0        18.0       36.0        18.0       111.0       125.0       236.0        53              o
(iii) Branch Office:
Buildings                   900.0       600.0                                                     900.0       600.0    1,500.0         40
Furniture & Equipment        47.0        86.0                                                      47.0        86.0       133.0        65
Vehicles                                130.0                                                                 130.0       130.0        100
Operating costs             499.0        54.0      499.0        54.0      499.0        54.0    1,497.0        162.0    1,659.0          10
Sub-total            1,935.0    4,882.5       833.0    1,826.0       776.0    1,316.0    3,544.0    8,024.5   11,568.5            69
C. MAF Extension Service:
Buildings                        2,736.0    1,824.0                                                    2,736.0    1,824.0    4,560.0          40
Furniture & equipment               45.0       420.0                                                      45.0       420.0       465.0        90
Vehicles                                       520 0                                                                 520.0       520.0       100
Operating costs                    996.0       192.0      996.0       192.0      996.0       192.0    2,988.0        576.0    3,564.0         16
Sub-Total           3,777.0    2,956.0        996.0       192.0      996.0       192.0    5,769.0    3,340.0    9,109.0           37
II. Agricultural Credit Survey            450.0                                                                 450.0                    450.0
III. Credit                                                     4,050.0    9,450.0   4,050.0    9,450.0    8,100.    18,900.0   27,000.0               70
Total Base Cost                          6,635.5    8,507.0   6,603.0   11,826.0   6,527.0   11,146.0   19,765.5   31,479.0   51,244.5                 61
Contingencies:
Physical                              663.5       851.0      255.0       238.0      248.0       170.0    1,166.5    1,259.0    2,425.5            52
Price                                 584.0       749.0      437.0       407.0      644.0       441.0    1,665.0    1,597.0    3,262.0            49
Total Project Cost                       7,883.0   10 107.0   7 295.0   12,471.0   7 419.0   11,757.0   22 597.0   34 335.0   56 932.0                 60             X 



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cost Estimates including Contingencies
(YRls '000)
Year I                 Year 2                 Year 3                  Total              Grand
Local      Foreign    Local       Foreign    Local       Foreign      Local      Foreign       Total
I. Institution Building
A. CACB Staff training:
Consultants                                    433.0                                                                  433.0       433.0
Salaries & benefits                553.6       223.4      920.2       455.2      958.9       255.7    2,432.7         934.3    3,367.0
Support facilities                   8.9       137.8                      _                                 8.9       137.8       146.7
Sub-total              562.5       794.2      920.2       455.2      958.9       255.7    2,441.6    1,505.1    3,946.7
B. CACB Organizational Improvement
(i) Systems & procedures:
Consultants                             433.0                                                                  433.0       433.0
Salaries & benefits         158.0    1,413.8        193.2    1,729.2       129.2    1,156.2        480.4    4,299.2    4,779.6
Support facilities          141.4       325.6       137.3        68.7      146.9        73.4       425.6       467.7       893.3
(ii) M.I.C.:
Consultants                              374.2                                                                 374.2       374.2
Salaries & benefits          45.2       403.9       48.3       432.3        51.7       462.5       145.2    1,298.7      1,443.9
Accounting machines          190.1    1,710.8                                                      190.1    1,710.8    1,900.9           u
Support facilities           46.3       105.8       45.8         22.9       48.9        24.5       141.0       153.2       294.2
(iii) Branch Office:
Buildings                 1,069.2        712.8                                                   1,069.2       712.8    1,782.0
Furniture & equipment        55.8        102.3                                                      55.8       102.3        158.1
Vehicles                                 154.4                                                                 154.4        154.4
Operating costs             592.8         64.2      634.2        68.6      678.7        73.5    1,905.7        206.3    2,112.0
Sub-total           2,298.8    5,800.8   1,058.8    2,321.7   1,055.4    1,790.1    4,413.0    9,912.6   14,325.6
C. MAF Extension Service:
Buildings                        3,250.4    2,167.1                                                    3,250.4    2,167.1    5,417.5
Furniture & equipment               53.5       499.0                                                       53.5       499.0       552.5
Vehicles                                       617.8                                                                  617.8       617.8
Operating costs                  1,183.2       228.1   1,266.0        244.1   1,354.7         261.2    3,803.9        733.4    4,537.3
Sub-total           4,487.1    3,512.0   1,266.0          244.1   1,354.7        261.2    7,107.8    4,017.3   11,125.1
II. Agricultural Credit Survey             534.6                                                                 534.6                    534.6
III. Credit                                                      4,050.0    9,450.0   4,050.0    9,450.0    8,100.0   18,900.0   27,000.0
Total Project Cost                        7,883.0   10,107.0   7,295.0   12,471,0   7,419.0   11,757.0   22,597.0   34,335.0   56,932.0               H x



-52 -                                                                                ANNEX 3
YEMEN ARLAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Detailed Pr~oject Costs
(YRLs '000)
Year 1              Year 2                Year 3                   Total            Grand       Forign
Uit   Unit Cent   Local   Foreign   Loc al    Foreign   Local1    Foreign             Local    Foreugn     Total   Exchange
0. INSTITUTIGN DUILDING
A. CAGE Staff Training Cb-ssltant             9 nn      40,500                  364.5                                                              364.5      364.5        100
Capital Costs:
Photocpying nach ine                    1         15,000                   15.0                                                               15.0        15.0       100
Dsplicoting ..achine                    1          15,000                  15.0                                                               15.0        15.0       100
Typewriter                              1           3,500                   3.5                                                                3.5         3.5       IOU
Office f-rit-r                                     16,000         4.8      11.1                                                    4..8       11.2        16.0        70
iesidenc  f-rit-re                                  9,000         2.7       6.1                                                    2.7         6.3         9.0        70
Vehicle                                 1          65,000                  65.0                                                               65.0        65.0       100
Sob-total                                           7.5     116.0                                                     7.5      116.0       123.5        94
Recurrent lost:
Inc  recruited traine                  24 n/n     31,500        19.0      170.0      38.0       340.0      19.0       170.0       76.0       680.0      756.0         90
Co-terpart trainer                     36 rn/r      6,000       72.0                 72.0                  72.0                  216.0                  216.0          -
Clerk                                   1           2,500        50.0                30.0                  30.0                    90.0                   90.0         -
Typist (Arahic/English)                 1           3,000       36.0                 36.0                  36.0                  106.2                   108.0         -
Drive                                   1           2,000       24.0                 24.0                  24.0                    72.0                   72.0         -
Vehicle operation & naint.                        30,000         12.0      18.0      12.0        16.0      12.0        18.0       36.0        54.0        90.0        60
Trainees travel 6 per dien                                     239.0                478.0                 478.0                1,195.0                1,195.0          -
Guest speakers                                                  24.0                 24.0                  24.0                   72.0                   72.0          -
miscellaneou                                                    10.0                 10.0                  10.0                   30.0                   30,0  
Shb-tota1                                        466.0      188.0     724.0      358.0    705.0         186.0    L_895.I      734.0   2,629,0           28
Tora1 CACB Staff Training                                    473.5     668.5      724.0      358.0      705.0       188.0   1,902.5   1,214.5   3,117.0             39
B. CACB Organicationa.l Ioprovernents;
Ci) Systens 6 Procedore
Consoltunt support                    9 r/n     40,500                 364.5                                                               364.5      364.5        100
Interntiona  staff
Ma..agenen.t adviser              24 nn       31,500        19.0     170.0       38.0      340.0       19.0      170.0        76.0      680.0       756.0         90
Credit adviser                    36 n/n      31,500        38.0    340.0       38.0       340.0       38.0      340.0       114.0   1,020.0   1,134.0            90
Planing & research adviser   36 s/n           31,500        38.0    340.0       38.0       340.0       38.0      340.0       114.0   1,020.0   1,134.0            90
Livetock specialist               24 n/n      31,500        38.0     340.0      38.0       340.0                              76.0      680.0       756.0         90
Snk-total                                        133.0  1,190.0       152.0    1,360.0       93.0       850.0      380.0   3,400.0   3,780.0            90
Support facilities
Residence f-riture                 4           9,000        01.0      25.0                                                    11.0       25.0        36.0         70
Vehicles                           3          65,000                 195.0                                                              195.0       095.0        100
Sub-total                                          11.0    220.0                                                     11.0      220.0      231.0         95
Recurrent cos ts
Drivers                            3          24,000        72.0                 72.0                  72.0                  216.0                  216.0          -
Vehicle operation & raint.         3          30,000        36.0      54.0       36.0       54.0       36.0       54.0       108.0      162.0       270.0        60
Sub-totalJjf.j1 108 0                                        5.          0L        54-0    108.0         54.0      324.0       162 0      486.0         33
Total  ysytern  and procedures                           252.0  1,828.5    260.0   1,414.0    203.0             904.0       715.0   4,146.5   4,861.5           85
(ii) M.I.C.
Acc-oting syster                     V9nr       35,000                 315.0                                                               315.0      315.0        100
Accouting rnchines                                           160.0  1,440.0                                                    160.0   1,440.0   1,600.0           100
Finan.cial.. cotroller               36 n/n     31,500        38.0     340.0       38.0      340.0       38.0      340.0       114.0    1 020.0   1,134.0           90
Suh-total                                        198.0  2,095.0        38.0       340.0      38.0       340.0      274.0   2,775.0   3,049.0            91
Support facilities
Residence furiture                  1          9,000         3.0       6.0                                                     3.0         6.0        9.0         70
Vehicle                             1         65,000                  65.0                                                               65.0        65.0        100
lob-total                                           3.0      71.0                                                     3.0       71.0        74.0        96
Recurrent costs
Driver                                        24,000        24.0                 24.0                  24.0                   72.0                   72.0          -
Vehicle operation 8 rnaint.                   30,000        12.0      18.01      12.0       18.0       12.0       18.0        36.0       54.0        90.0         60
Shb-tota1                                         36.0       18.0      36.0        18.0      36.0        18.0      108.0C       54.0      162.0         33
Total M.I.C.                                              237.0  2,184.0       74.0       358.0       74.0      358.0       385.0   2,900.0   3,285.0            88
(iii) Saadab Branch Office
-Buildings                                                    900.0    600.13                                                   900,0      600.0   1,500.0           40
Furiture & equiprnest                                         47.0      86.0                                                    47.0        86.0      133.0         70
Vehicles                              2         65,000                  130.0)                                                             130.0      130.0        100
Operating costs                                              499.0       54.3    499.0         54.0    499.0         54.0   1.497.0        162.0   1 659.0          60
Total Soadah hranch office                             1,446.0    870.0       499.0        54.0    499.0         54.0   2,444.0        978.    3,462.2.0         28
Total Organioational Iprnpo-ernts -1,935.0  4,882.5    833.0   1,826.0                              776.0   1,316.0   3,544.0   8,024.5  11,568.               -69
C. MAP Entensi-n Service:
Ci Gove-rorte office (2)
Audio visual unit                     1        150,000                  150.0                                                              150.0       150.0       100
Vehicle                               1         65,000                   65.2                                                               65.0       65,0        100
Salaries
Audio visual opertor               36 n/n      3,500        42.0                 42.0                  42.0                  126.0                  126.0          -
Driver                            36 r/n       2,000        24.0                 24.0                  24.0                   72.0                   72.0          -
Vehicle operation & rnaint.                                   12.0       18.U      12.0        18.0      12.0        18.0       36.0        54.0       90.0         60
(ii) District Ceeter (2)
Buildings                                                    576.0     384.0                                                   576.0       384.0      960.0         40
Office furiture    equipoent                                   7.5       20.0                                                    7.5        20.0       27.5         70
Vehiclin                                                                 65,0                                                               65.0       65.0        100
Staff salaries                                               174.0                174.0                 174.0                  522.0                  522.0          -
Operating costs                                               26.0       18.0      26.0        08.0      26.0        18.0       78.0        54,0      132.0         41
(iii) Village center (4)
Buildings                                                    396.0     264.0                                                   394.0       264.0      660.0         40
Office furnitare & equipoent                                   7.5       20.0                                                     7.5       20.0       27,5         70
Vehicle                                                                  65.0                                                               65.0       65,0        100
Staff saais96.0                                                                    96.0                  96.0                  288.0                  288.0          -
Operating costs                                               26.0       18,0      26.0        18.0      26.0        18,0       78.0        54.0      132.0         41
Total enten..ion servie centers:
Buildings                                                    2,736.0  1,824,0                                                  2,736.0   1,824.0   4,560.0            40
Office furniture I equiprne.nt                                  45.0    420.0                                                      45.0      420.0       465.0         70
Vehicles                                                                  520.0                                                              520.0       520.0       100
Operating costs                                                996.0      192.0     996.0       192.0     996.0       192.0   2,988.0        576.0   3,564.0           60
Total MAP extension serice                             3,777.0  2,956.0        996.0      192.0    996.0        192.0   5,769.0   3,340.0   9,109.0              37
II. AGRICUL.TURAL CREDIT SURVEY                                        450.0                                                             450.0                   450.0          -
III. CREDIT                                                                               4,050.0   9,450.0  4,050.0   9,450.0   8,100.0  18,900.0  27,000.0                   70
Total Base Costs                                             6,635.5  8,507.0  6,603.0  11,826.0  6,527.0  11,146.0  19,765.5  31,479.0  51,244.5                      61



-53-                                 ANNEX 3
Table 3a
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CACB Saddah Branch Cost Estimates
A. Branch Building                                             Cost of Construction
-------(YRls)-------
1. Site development, paving, boundary walls                         500,000
2. Foundation & other load-bearing construction                     302,000
3. External & internal walls                                        405,000
4. Flooring                                                          43,000
5. Doors & windows                                                    74,000
6. Finishing and painting                                            66,000
7. Electrical installations                                           18,000
8. Water supply & sanitary fittings, & drainage                      62,000
9. Other miscellaneous items                                         30,000
Total                                                     1,500,000
B. Furniture & Office Equipment                                          Cost
(YRls)-
1. Branch furniture                                                  95,000
2. Office equipment                                                   15,000
3. Furniture for guest house                                         14,000
4. Furniture for branch manager quarters                               9,000
Total                                                       133,000
C. Local Staff Cost
Post                       Number of Staff             Annual Cost
--(YRls)---
1. Branch Manager                            1                      72,000
2. Senior Accountant                         1                      61,000
3. Credit Officer                            1                      56,000
4. Treasurer                                 1                      44,000
5. Assistant Credit Officer                  1                      37,500
6. Storekeeper                               1                      37,500
7. Clerk                                     1                      33,500
8. Typist                                    1                      33,500
9. Driver                                    2                      48,000
10. Guard                                     1                      20,000
11. Messenger                                 1                      20,000
Total                               12                      463,000
D. Operating Costs
1. Operational cost & maintenance of vehicles                        60,000
2. Office stationery                                                  12,000
3. Water, electricity, postage, telephone, etc.                      15,000
4. Miscellaneous items                                                 3,000
Total                                                        90,000



- 54 -                               ANNEX 3
fable 3b
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MAF Extension Service Cost Estimates
I. Governorate Agricultural Office                                        Cost
(YRls)
A. Audio Visual Unit (1)                                              150,000
B. Vehicle (1)                                                         65,000
C. Staff Salaries                                                   Annual Cost
--(YRls)---
Audio visual operator (1)                                           42,000
Driver (1)                                                          24,000
66,000
D. Operating Costs
Vehicle operation & maintenance                                     30,000
II. District Extension Service                                             Cost
(YRls)
A. Office Building         10Om2 Cost of Unit 3,000tr                 300,000
B. Staff House             220 m2 Cost of Unit 3000tr                 660,000
(100 m2 + 60 m2 + 60 m2)
C. Office Equipment & Furniture    100 m2                              27,500
D. Vehicle (1)                 Cost of Unit 65,000                     65,000
E. Local Staff Salaries                                             Annual Cost
--(YRls)---
Area supervisor                                                     48,000
Extension agents (2)                                                72,000
Driver (1)                                                          24,000
Clerk (1)                                                           30,000
Total                                                         174,000
F. Operating Costs
Operation & maintenance of vehicles                                 30,000
Office stationery                                                    5,000
Water, electricity, postage, telephone, etc.                         7,500
Miscellaneous expenses                                               1,500
Total                                                          44,000



-55                                  ANNEX 3
Table 3b
Page 2
III. Village Extension Service                                               Cost
(YRls)
A. Office Building         100 m2 Cost of Unit 3000tr                 300,000
B. Staff House             120 m2 Cost of Unit 3000tr                 360,000
(60 m2 + 60 m2)
C. Office Equipment & Furniture    100 m2                              27,500
D. Vehicle (1)                 Cost of Unit 65,000                     65,000
E. Local Staff Salaries                                             Annual Cost
-(YR1 s)---
Area supervisor                                                     42,000
Driver                                                              24,000
Clerk                                                               3
Total                                                          96,000
F. Operating Costs
Operation & maintenance of vehicle                                  30,000
Office stationery                                                    5,000
Water, electricity, postage, telephone, etc.                         7,500
Miscellaneous expenses                                               1,500
Total                                                          44,000



- 56 -                                 ANNEX 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year            Quarterly          Cumulative
& Quarter Ending        Disbursements        Disbursements
1982/83  March                 -                    -
June                0.3 /1                0.3
1983/84  September            0.5                  0.8
December            0.8                   1.6
March               1.0                   2.6
June                1.1                   3.7
1984/85  September            0.8                   4.5
December            0.7                   5.2
March               0.7                   5.9
June                0.6                   6.5
1985/86  September            0.4                  6.9
December            0.4                   7.3
March               0.2                   7.5
June                0.2                   7.7
1986/87  September            0.2                   7.9
December            0.1                   8.0
/1 Includes PPF of US$0.1 million for expenditures
incurred before credit effectiveness.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farmer Benefits; Farm Model 1
Cash Flow
(YRls)
Years
0          1            2           3          4          5         6-7            8           9           10
Inflow;
Gross Value of Crops                65,267       68,655      79,675      84,959      89,638    96,600    96,600   126,600 /1    96,600   186,600 /2
Tractor Hire Work /3                             31,500      45,000      45,000      45,000    45,000    45,000    45,000            45,000    45,000
Farmers' Contribution /4                        32,500
Long-Term Loan /5                                97,500
Short-Terin Loan 76                                 978       2,311       4,219       4,444      4,444
Total                            65,267    231,133    126,986    134,178    139,082   146,044   141,600   171,600               141,600   231,600
Outflow;
Tax (Zakat) /7                       3,263        3,433       3,984       4,248       4,482      4,830      4,830      4,830          4,830      4,830
Investment                                     130,000                                                               110,000
Operating Costs                     35,573       58,785      72,926      75,024      75,044    75,044    75,044    75,044            75,044    75,044
Total                            38,836    192,218       76,910       79,272      79,526    79,874    79,874   189,874            79,874    79,874
Cash Balance Before Debt Service   26,431          38,915      50,076      54,906      59,556    66,170    61,726   (18,274)           61,726   151,726
Debt Service;
Long-Termn Loan /8                                           25,541      25,541      25,541    25,541    25,541
Short-Term Loan (Capital)                           978       2,311       4,219       4,444      4,444
Short-Tern Loan (Interest) /9                        54         127         232         244         244
Total Debt Service                            1,032      27,979       29,992      30,229    30,229    25,541
Cash Balance After Debt Service    26,431          37,883      22,097      24,914      29,327    35,941    36,185   (18,274)           61,726   151,726
incremental Cash                                   11,452      (4,334)     (1,517)      2,896      9,510      9,754   (44,705)         35,295   125,295
Incremental Gross Income                           34,888      59,408      64,692      69,371     76,333    76,333   106,333           76,333   166,333
Incremental Costs                                 153,382      38,074      40,436      40,690    41,038    41,038   151,038            41,038    41,038
Cash Flow for FRR                                (118,494)    21,334       24,256      28,681    35,295    35,295   (44,705)           35,295   125,295
FR; 19/
/1 Salvage value included.
/2 Remaining value of tractor included.
/3  750 hours at YRls 60/hour.  1st year 70%.
/4  25% of investment.
/5  75% of investment.
/6  Covers fertilizers and chemicals for 5 years.
TX 5% of crop value.
7g  1 year grace, interest capitalized paid in 6 years.
/9 For 1/2 year.



YEMEN ARAB REP.UBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Fa.-  Ba-ft-a   'arm Model  2
(YRI a)
0  I         U            3           4            5            6            1           A            9           10 ~~~~~~~411             1I           00           14A                       I,          1            18           L9           00           11      1-2-14           2
Utoll Volot  01 Cr071    ~~~2,340      4,857        0,063      10,316       11,311       12.540       15,340      15,540       10,140        1.1340      17.340       18.340       11,140       17,340       11,140       11,340       16,3,0       L7.340      17,340       11,340       17,340       18,340       17,040       18,340
II                   1.~~~~~~~~~7013  1,363    7,495          259
l.onR-UIro   010  12               0,~~~~~ ~~1.2215  4,OAO   4.403           17
CIlOtI-Otta  I.ooo73              120          2~~    ~ ~~~~           ~~~~ ~ ~~44  562  15  9161
IlUal               1 340       18.219       14         _______8 2_7__14_76  16_ 86  _ 3_298  13               _ 522  16  9240                     I  ,15436 74    7 3140  _14 34031011340 340    7'.34 1103340  _YW            13411   7                     334,0     II  3407 , 3340          10 340 _340  1340 348B 340
01-  (Co-1) 24                       234          094         433          496          561          621          7117        717 7         3 37        86 7         867    8      671         8 R7         867          86 7         867          00    8       678         M6l          801         800          0618               86       7
UI-aataeoU                                    13.300        5.,4153      lOl          0. 7  035                6,300                                                           8,300                                                             6. 301                                                          0,1,300
P-o Ulng C....                     I ,7 60     20.9359      6, 663       7.,013       7.442       _7474               0417    _74.  7Ži   1417         4lAZ4    ..,a 4 74           4 7      7, 474       7 174        7414         7 41.414  4balE7 4 7Sl               7, 4 74    S_I7m   7,2,9l 4             lA   4       lIS_E        7,41
Tola1                        1.994        16_,533        2_549      1 3.487       9,03R        8 UOO       14 .491       8. 2 51     8.,31 1      8  41 ~      8~E , 4      6,6          8, 31          _318, 341341    ,,311               14 ,! 61 I    ,,, 34Ž      0 341       _8 301        8, 34      16,64 ,AI     8 , 3
0161  4ItVOIa              ~~~~      ~~~~346  1 ,72 6  2, 2111  3.,369      4.260        5,4121       1 ,831       7 ,289       8.,42 9      8,999       8,999        1.699        8 ,399        8.999          . 999     0.999         3,699       8,999        8,999        8,999        0,999        1,0699       8,999       9,0999
Poap loa   2132  0,03                                                   .0225      2 ,201       2 ,22 5
POnaot100/0                                                                                        2 ,822      2.682 2      2 ,8211      2 , 801      2, 812       2 . 822      2,8122
120110101                          ~~~~        ~~~~         ~~~~~12 2  244  562  95 2  982
lIal11                 7___                            13           31           52           54
00-11  Ot9O2Ott2 t2 029                                                   8       3. Al 29     3 ,261       2.,8212   21I216         2.A2          .6              82 1                  2 ,8122
346       1,391          2 701        33         0.1 031     2,0i60        19901       4 ,4607      5 ,60 7     6 .1 7 7     0,1I77      I11, 1231     6.I 1 7       A,099        0, 999      1    9       1.699        0,099        0,999       80999           , 999      1099q        0, 999      9,999
0111, tOatIlUol COIII Oolantt        1~~I, 2 50    160117        205          685       1 ,A84       10,33 7      4,I021       5.,261       5.,8231      5 ,831      11,4691      3.,831        8, 653       0, 653       I    3       3 , 303      .663         8 ,6533     8 0,6 53     0,0653          , 3353    8 .65 3      9.,65 3
NWtt.If1                                                                  fd.-1
trol ..   .o}aI   110 .a.ol.  laoalon i-..po -ol   ot   f   oaI
71  4  ntagraca .pali  7vo     I-..at
T77       Ill701



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farmer Benefits: Farm Model 3
Cash Flow
(YRls)
Years
Present       1        2          3         4          5          6        7-9        10
Inflow
Gross Value of Crops                 11,725    12,282   14,360    15,303   16,150   18,282 /1   17,282   17,282   18,282 /1
Farmers' Contribution /2                         2,075
Long-Term Loans /3                               6,225
Short-Term Loan /4                                 164       361        563       588      588
Total                             11,725    20,746   14,721    15,866   16,738   18,870           17,282   17,282   18,282
Outflow
Tax (Zakat) /5                           586       614       718        765       808      864          864       864       864
Investment                                       8,300                                   6,300
Operating Costs                       7,001      6,884    7,278       7,599    7,650    7,650         7,650    7,650    7,650
Total                              7,587    15,798    7,996       8,364    8,458   14,814          8,514    8,514    8,514 
Cash Balance Before Debt Service        4,138      4,948    6,725       7,502    8,280    4,056         8,768    8,768    9,768
Debt Service
Long-Term Loan (Interest 11%) /6                           2,225      2,225    2,225    2,225
Short-Term Loan (Capital)                          164       361        563      588       588
Short-Term Loan (Interest) /7                        9        20         31        32       32
Total Debt Service                              173    2,606      2,819    2,845    2,845        _
Cash Balance After Debt Service         4,138      4,775    4,119       4,683    5,435    1,211         8,768    8,768    9,768
Incremental Cash Balance                             637       (19)       545    1,297   (2,927)        4,630    4,630    5,630
FRR: 30%
/1  Including salvage value.
/2  25% of investment cost.
75  75% of investment cost.
74  For fertilizers and chemicals.
/5  5% of gross value of crops.
76  1 year grace, amortized over 4 years.
/7  For 1/2 year.



- 60 -                                ANNEX 6
YEM4EN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. General Reports
1. Agricultural Sector Memorandum, June 26, 1979; IBRD Report No.
2582-YAR.
2. Review of Agricultural Project Priorities, 29 October 1980; FAO/WB/CP
Report No. 51/80YAR10 (two volumes).
3. Agricultural Sector: Performance, Strategy and Options, November 17,
1981, Consultants Report for IBRD/UNDP.
B. Selected Reports Related to the Project
1. Agricultural Credit Project, Identification Mission, FAO/WB/CP Report
No. 18/81YAR12, April 19, 1981.
2. Agricultural Credit Project, Preparation Mission, FAO/WB/CP Report No.
42/81YAR14, December 14, 1981.
3. Agricultural Credit Bank, Annual Report 1980.
4. National Cooperative Development Bank, Annual Report 1980.
C. Working Papers
1. The Plan and Financial Requirements of ACB during 1981-85.
2. Findings and Recommendations on CACB Policies and Procedures,
Agricultural Production in Yemen and CACB Training Program, Consultant
Report.



COOPERATIVE AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT BANK
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
[   Board of   l
D irectors          l
For ign  Planning,                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secretary
Internal Audit        Administration        Central Accountg            Credit                RltosTraining                                   Commercial            CoeaieLalBoard of
DeotetDepartment                  Department             Department             Department                           and Statistics          Department             DeprmnieatetDrectors
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dprmn Departmentt
Branches
Beit Al
|   Sana'a  |   |   Dhamcar   |  |        Ibb      l   l     Taiz      }   T    Zabid      }  |    Fartih      |  | Hodeidah   |  }  Az Zuhrah  |   |             Abs      l   l      Hajjah lWl Saadahnl
World Bank-23771






BRD~ 16358
015 seRTRI -      50'         A0¢         U>& '                                   44°                                                                                        46°                      MAY 1982
RAO  >       IRAN       &'W
,,RRGIN NegNs.4r  i+,8YEMEIN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
OBE  SAULDI ARABIA   GTP        ISUI A AI
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUDAN           _ <RE                                           N iO'   . ~.
- ''    zD   \  ~'                      /           ''                          r                                                                       PROPOSE ONEW BRANCH
TIg    ,RT- -UAT                                                                                                                                                   EKvXIF.ISTING BRANCHES
ETTIOIOIA T       --                                                                                                                                            8URORTS
®       NATIONAL CAPITAL
TOWNS
, '_'_'' ,__  PRIMARY ROADS
OTHER ROADS
I  3 s A A D A H                    :    -§/                        ',;         9                              ELLVAT ONS IN METERS
TTIT11W  50
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                    WAD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ISGI
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
INTERNAT IONAL BOUNOARIES
- i   H  A  J JEAH   .    .             .                                                                                       S E B -
16-                                                                                                                                                                                                           16U
, ,, > Kr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILOMTERS
,~~~~~~~ ,1   PEPL'  DEORAI  REPUBLIC9j                                                                                         OPk YEE
Hod~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  S aG__d_T
Al MOiIO -; MITU\
,  fa *Mgwzo        e-9, H!
ETHIOPIA                                                               DERR l AT /  ,I  O
,                          ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A R..   .
/'  's_/~~~~~~~~~~~~~h ',
ETHIOPIA/
/                                                                      GOl0,F O9F /1L2N
/               DJIBOUTI
'/'  '               '    '                       '4,-0_                                _ R,O T   _ T   .YR U Y



