               Document of
            The World Bank




                                           Report No: 25613

 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
     (SCPD-3718S; SCL-3718A; CPL-37180)

                   ON A

                   LOAN

    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350 MILLION

                  TO THE

       PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                 FOR THE

CHINA YANGZHOU THERMAL POWER PROJECT




                 06/17/2003

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2002)

                         Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan (Y)
                                     Y1 = US$ 0.12048
                                 US$ 1 = Y 8.28
                    Exchange Rate During Project Years
                                1994 - Y 8.60
                                1995 - Y 8.30
                                1996 - Y 8.30
                                1997 - Y 8.30
                                1998 - Y 8.28
                                1999 - Y 8.28
                                2000 - Y 8.28
                                2001 - Y 8.28
                                2002 - Y 8.28

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1     December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EAR        Environmental Assessment Report
ECEPDI     East China Electric Power Design Institute
ECO        Expanded Co-financing Operation
Edf        Electricite de France
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
FMIS       Financial Management Information System
gce        grams of coal equivalent
GWh        Gigawatt hour
IERR       Internal Economic Rate of Return
IPP        Independent Power Producer
JPEPC      Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company
JPG        Jiangsu Power Grid
kV         Kilovolt
kVA        Kilovolt-ampere
MOEP       Ministry of Energy and Power
MW         Megawatt
PUB        Public Utilities Bureau
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
SPC        State Planning Commission
VAT        Value-Added tax
ZPEPC      Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company


                       Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum
          Country Manager/Director:         Yukon Huang
                      Sector Manager:       Junhui Wu
    Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Jianping Zhao

                                               CHINA
                                  China-Yangzhou Thermal Power


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
   6. Sustainability                                                                14
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
   9. Partner Comments                                                              17
   10. Additional Information                                                       20
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
   Annex 8. Review of the Environmental Management and Monitoring Program           36
   Annex 9. Summary of the Resettlement Completion Report                           40



MAP 32482

Project ID: P003641                                                      Project Name: CN-Yangzhou Thermal Power
Team Leader: Jianping Zhao                                               TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 19, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: CN-Yangzhou Thermal Power                                L/C/TF Number: SCPD-3718S;
                                                                                                     SCL-3718A; CPL-37180
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (99%); Sub-national government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (P); Pollution management
                            and environmental health (P); Regulation and competition policy
                            (S); Climate change (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/05/1993                                        Effective: 12/13/1994              12/13/1994
   Appraisal:    10/23/1993                                            MTR:
    Approval:    03/22/1994                                         Closing: 12/31/2000               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/JPEPC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jemal-ud-din Kassum                                 Gautam Kaji
Country Director:          Yukon Huang                                         Zafer Ecevit
Sector Manager:            Junhui Wu                                           Richard Newfarmer
Team Leader at ICR:        Jianping Zhao                                       Vukota Mastilovic
ICR Primary Author(s): Matthew Mitchell; Noureddine
                           Berrah


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:HS


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project's original objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), were to:

     (a) support the implementation of the institutional and structural power sub-sector reforms at the
         provincial level, through the development of Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company (JPEPC)
         as an autonomous company;

     (b) contribute to further rationalization of the power tariff structure through implementation of a
         program to simplify the existing complex tariffs;

     (c) promote applications of more transparent and efficient financial management techniques to assist in
         transforming the provincial power company's accounting system;

     (d) provide cost-effective and environmentally sustainable additional generating capacity to alleviate a
         current acute shortage of power, meet power demand growth, and improve the quality of power
         supply in Jiangsu Province and in the East China power system, by the construction of the
         Yangzhou thermal power plant and associated facilities;

     (e) assist in transferring new technologies for large coal-fired power plants in China, applying modern
         power systems and strengthening institutional capabilities for environmental management and
         monitoring; and

     (f) external technical assistance in management development and staff training programs.

Importance and Clarity of Objectives.             The project's objectives addressed the technological,
environmental and institutional development challenges facing China's coal-dominated power sector during
the early years of the country's transition from a "command and control" to a "socialist market" economy.
For clarity and easy understanding by the clients, they addressed the specific actions that needed to be
undertaken to meet the fast-growing demand in a financially and environmentally sustainable way. The
achievement of this objective was paramount to a sustained growth and openness to private sector
involvement.

Jiangsu Province in East China was a logical choice for testing new technologies and institutional models
for implementing reforms to support this transition. It was experiencing one of the highest economic
growth in the country. Industrial output in the province had expanded by 27 percent in 1992, despite
power shortages. The installed generating capacity of Jiangsu Power Grid (JPG) was 8,280 MW and
power shortages amounted to 10-20 percent of peak power supply even with conservation efforts.

Consistency with Government and Bank Strategy for the Power Sector. The project was consistent with
the Government's and the Bank's strategy for the power sector. The 1994 CAS called for "easing
long-standing constraints to growth by alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks, particularly in the energy,
transport and communications sectors."       Furthermore, at the central level, the Bank and the Government
had established a strong dialogue on reform through the completion of Strategic Options in Power Sector
Reform in China. This dialogue had resulted in a reform strategy that consisted of: (a) increased autonomy
of the provincial power companies; (b) commercialization of these companies through separation of
government functions from company operations; (c) improvements in the regulatory framework to support
commercialization and private sector participation; (d) diversification of external financing sources,
particularly increasing financing from the private sector; and (e) rationalization of the pricing system more
in line with a market-oriented economy. Bank lending operations were the key vehicle for implementing the



                                                      - 2 -

strategy at the regional/provincial level and the successful commercialization of the company was to serve
as a model for commercialization in other provinces.

Project Complexity, Capability of the Borrower, and Risks. The project was complex because it was
to introduce new power plant technology combined with a diversity of institutional changes that were still
not ingrained in the country's laws and regulations. The project was also JPEPC's first experience with
managing a Bank-funded operation. However, the project's implementation was considered within JPEPC'
s reach given the consulting services provided. JPEPC, an experienced and technically competent utility,
was capable of formulating an expansion plan and implementing complex power projects. The directed,
high-level technical assistance was designed to help them strengthen project implementation and
management capabilities for a smooth transition from a government department to commercial utility and,
at the same time, to increase the company's knowledge of international business practices.

Prior to the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project, the Bank had considerable project experience working with
the Government of China, as Borrower. The Bank had financed 12 large power generation and load
management projects in the country (five thermal projects and seven hydro project) and one transmission
project. The implementation of most projects had been satisfactory and within budget. Overall, Bank
projects had helped to introduce important elements of modern utility management and planning. These
included: (a) international competitive bidding for goods and works; (b) transfer of modern technologies in
project construction and management; (c) improved efficiency of pollution abatement; (d) increased power
tariffs to cover higher portion of costs of supply; (e) integration of regional power systems; (f) development
of master plans for modern networks; (g) improved operational efficiency; and (h) prudent financial
management.

The SAR found most of the risks associated with the project to be reasonable or minimal. The project's
construction risks were manageable given continuous supervision arrangements under the project, involving
foreign and Chinese consultants. The economic risks were minimal since the economic analysis of the
project had determined that coal-fired power plants were clearly the least-cost solution. Consultations with
cofinanciers and market sounding activities had concluded that the financial risks were manageable within
the Expanded Co-financing Operation (ECO) framework. Other risks cited, but considered manageable,
concerned possible problems with timely procurement and delivery of equipment as well as the effective
implementation of the environmental program.

3.2 Revised Objective:

There was no formal revision of project objectives. However, substantial cost savings allowed JPEPC to
finance an additional transmission component, discussed in Section 3.4 below. This component fell within
the original physical objective to alleviate shortages of power supply in the Jiangsu Province. It also
allowed the deepening of the reform process by supporting inter-provincial electricity trade and private
sector involvement to alleviate capacity constraints.

3.3 Original Components:

The design of the project's components followed good practices and adequately incorporated lessons
learned from earlier projects. The project's components consisted of:

     (a) construction of a coal-fired thermal power plant with two 600-MW generating units and associated
         equipment and facilities;

     (b) erection of two 500-kV transmission lines (about 30 km long) and reinforcement of the existing



                                                      - 3 -

         power network;

    (c) engineering and construction management services;

    (d) an environmental management and monitoring program;

    (e) a resettlement program for households affected by the construction of the power plant and the
         transmission line;

    (f) assistance for the development and implementation of improved accounting and financial
         management systems; and

    (g) management development training.

The project's physical components had a substantial amount of preparatory work. The East China Electric
Power Design Institute (ECEPDI) prepared the feasibility study and design report in 1986, revising and
updating it in 1992. ECEPDI prepared an Environmental Assessment Report in 1993, in accordance with
Chinese and World Bank environmental standards.              The consulting services for engineering and
construction that the project was to provide, adequately complemented JPEPC's skills in technical and
engineering areas. The components for accounting/financial systems and training supported the project's
reform objective for greater commercialization of JPEPC. The project's provisions for environmental
protection and population resettlement met the safeguards standards of the Bank and the Government of
China at the time of project preparation.

In support of JPEPC's commercialization and related diversification of financing sources, the project's
financing plan included an expanded co-financing operation to allow JPEPC direct access to international
financial markets. JPEPC was to borrow US$120 million equivalent directly from international markets
with the support of a Bank guarantee. This arrangement was to allow commercial lenders and investors an
opportunity to review the company's financial and operational performance in order to facilitate JPEPC's
access to these financing sources on its own at a future stage in the company's development. At the request
of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank's Co-Financing Department conducted informal market soundings in
major international financial markets. These activities reviewed the strengths and constraints of various
market instruments. The preparatory work also considered foreign exchange risks.           As a result, the
Ministry of Finance and JPEPC decided on two-tier financing. They selected the US dollar as the preferred
currency for the larger tranche, in the interest of wider market participation, and the Japanese yen for the
second tranche, to take advantage of the currency's fixed interest rate, which was at an historically low
level.

3.4 Revised Components:

The Bank and the Borrower amended the project in 1998, using the savings of US$60 million from original
components to support the financing of a new component­the construction of a 500-kV line and associated
facilities to deliver power from a private Sino-foreign joint venture, mine-mouth power plant located at
Yangcheng (Shanxi Province) to the Jiangsu Power Grid.             This component supported the project's
objective to alleviate power shortages in the Jiangsu Province. The Bank modified the legal agreements to
include this component in the project. The cost savings resulted mainly from lower bid prices and a lower
inflation rate than anticipated for the boiler, turbine generator and electrical equipment. The total cost of
the new component was estimated at US$604.5 million, including contingencies and interest during
construction. The US$60 million in savings from the project consisted of US$20 million from the Bank
loan and US$40 million from expanded co-financing operation. These savings financed the component's
foreign cost of US$66 million, less the US$6 million in interest during construction. The financing for the



                                                      - 4 -

local costs was to come from several local financiers, including the Jiangsu Provincial Investment
Company, the State Development Bank and the China Construction Bank.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no quality assurance rating of the project at appraisal. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
did not exist at the time the Bank appraised the project. The ICR finds the quality at entry satisfactory.
The project's objectives were important for alleviating expected substantial power shortages that could
have hindered development and for introducing key reforms at the provincial level. As described in
Sections 3.1 to 3.3 above, the project's components supported the objectives. Risks were adequately
identified and mitigated with special emphasis on procurement. The project incorporated key lessons
learned from prior projects. Prior to the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project, Bank-financed projects in
China had often encountered procurement delays resulting from: (i) inappropriate contract packaging; (ii)
deficiencies in the domestic approval process; and (iii) the lack of clear responsibility among agencies
involved.    The project addressed these implementation factors by providing for expert engineering
consultants to improve the design of procurement packages and make better use of model bidding
documents following Bank standards.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project's overall outcome was satisfactory. It met all of its objectives without major shortcomings.
The project's gradual, steady approach to reform of the power sector has proven viable and within the
country's implementation capabilities. As discussed in Section 4.5, the project has had a substantial
institutional development impact, resulting in a fully commercialized JPEPC and the establishment of the
Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant as a corporate entity. The project exceeded many of its key performance
targets, indicated in Annex 1, including: (a) a greater estimated value of production attributed to the
availability of power; (b) a higher availability factor for the power units installed; and (c) enhanced
efficiency of coal use due to modern technology transferred. The Yangzhou power units financed under the
project were critical for meeting the Jiangsu power system's peak load during their early years of operation
and improved the quality of power supply because of their capability of following load variations more
closely than other units in the system. The re-estimated Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) on the
power plant is satisfactory and the overall sustainability of the project is highly likely given: (a) efficient,
sustainable operating results in the supply system; (b) improved financial standing because of timely tariff
increases; and (c) a follow-up project planned to prepare JPEPC for operation in a competitive market.

A. Objectives for Sector Reform and Commercialization of JPEPC

Objective 1: Support of Power Sector Reforms by Developing JPEPC as an Autonomous
                 Company

Outcome: JPEPC, by the end of the project, was operating as a commercialized, autonomous power
company, following the transfer of government functions to the Jiangsu Provincial Planning and Trade
Commission, the provincial regulatory agency.         It had incorporated its power plants, with proper
contractual arrangements, in preparation for full separation/divestiture of generation assets. JPEPC has
prepared a master plan for further reforms in line with the Power Sector Reform Strategy that the State
Council approved in 2002. The objectives of the plan are to: (a) separate the generation business from
transmission and distribution prior to June 30, 2003; (b) develop JPEPC into a modern grid company; and
(c) establish a competitive power market at the wholesale level by the end of 2005.



                                                    - 5 -

Objective 2:      Rationalization of Power Tariffs

Outcome:      The project led the Government to rationalize power tariffs in support of JPEPC's
commercialization. The Government abolished the former, two-track pricing system, that was complex and
inequitable. It consisted of (a) an "administered" tariff, that included state-based prices­those charged for
electricity generated by state-financed power capacity­plus various fees and surcharges; (b) guidance price
tariffs, which consisted of the previous two factors plus a "guidance price differential" for power from
sources outside the state-planned generation; and (c) numerous surcharges imposed at different
administrative levels. This system discriminated between consumers with the same pattern consumption,
mainly to shield large state-owned enterprises during the transition period. In 1999, JPEPC became one of
the first provincial power companies in China to eliminate the numerous surcharges imposed on consumers,
especially in rural and poor areas, and to implement a uniform tariff for customers of the same category.
The average tariff of 52.7 fen per kWh is in line with the long-run marginal cost of supply. In rural areas,
the uniform tariff is slightly higher at 55-65 fen per kWh but significantly lower than previous unduly high
prices.

Objective 3:      Promotion of More Efficient and Transparent Financial Management

Outcome: JPEPC has improved the efficiency and transparency of its financial management systems using
a cautious approach in line with evolving reforms in the power sector and related changes in the structure
of JPEPC. The company has been proactive in first pilot testing systems and improving them before
proceeding with their expansion on a large scale. As indicated in the description of the systems in Section
4.2, the project has supported the upgrading of JPEPC's existing system, enabling it to handle modern
financial planning and budgeting, which are key elements in commercial operations.

Objective 4:      Provision of Technical Assistance in Management and Staff Training Programs

Outcome: As noted in Section 4.2, the project exceeded its training objective by 10 percent in terms of
staff months of training provided by the project. This training, combined with expert assistance, enabled
JPEPC to complete the power plant within the expected time frame despite initial delays. It has also
increased the company's capability to: (a) introduce and operate state-of-the-art financial management
systems; and (b) procure and operate larger, more efficient coal-fired generating units.

B. Physical Objectives for Improved Power System Operations

Objective 5:      Provision of Cost-Effective, Environmentally Sustainable Generation Capacity to
                  Alleviate Shortages and Improve the Quality of Power Supply

Outcome: The IERR calculated on the additional generation capacity indicates that this capacity has been
cost effective and that it has contributed substantially to alleviating power shortages. Since the station
began operating in 1999, there has been no shortfall in power. Furthermore, given the high growth of peak
load by 21 percent in 2002, and the low system reserve margin (1.7 percent) without the additional 1200
MW of installed capacity under the project, there would be a significant shortfall in power supply. The
two units financed under the project are operating well and their availability factor is about 90 percent,
close to related indicators. The fuel efficiency of the units is slightly higher than expected, about 310 grams
of coal equivalent (gce) per kWh compared to target performance indicator of 318 gce per kWh despite the
fact that the units were extensively used for load follow-up. Coal consumption will decrease further when
they will be run to meet the base load as planned. The quality of power supply has improved with new
technology that allows the system to follow the load more closely. Transmission lines are operating well.



                                                      - 6 -

The environmental performance of the new generation capacity has met and even in some areas
substantially exceeded both Chinese and World Bank standards for categories of pollutants in the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP).

Objective 6:     Assistance in the Transfer of New Technologies for Large, Coal-Fired Power Plants
                 and Strengthening of Environmental Monitoring Capability

Outcome: The project assisted in the transfer of new power plant technology for greater fuel efficiency,
lower levels of pollution and improved load management. The two 600-MW coal-fired units that the
project financed are JPEPC's largest generating units. They are equipped with advanced equipment and
control systems and have the most flexible capability in following the system load. More than 70 percent
of JPEPC's units cannot operate at low load factors. Thus the units financed under the project play a
crucial role in securing the stability and reliability of the system. Also, the entry of Chinese manufacturers
into the market of 300-MW and 600-MW coal-fired power generators has brought down prices, not only in
China, but in international markets as well. Compared to smaller units used in China, under 200 MW,
these new units consume 60 percent less fuel resulting in reduced sulfur, particulate, and carbon dioxide
emissions by a similar level.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The following section reviews the outputs by the project components as they appear in the SAR. The
appraisal of the project took place before the Bank introduced the logframe approach to project design.
However, in 1998, project supervision staff retrofitted the project with key output indicators. Annex 1 lists
these indicators, which are discussed in the relevant sections below. Finally, as noted in the ICR guidelines
for a project with an SAR, the ICR discusses the contribution of the project to key thematic areas of Bank
involvement, where applicable.

Component 1:       Construction of the 1200-MW Coal-Fired Power Plant (Two 600-MW Units) at
                   Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant (Jiangsu Province)

Output: The key physical output indicator of the project was the construction and operation of the two
600-MW coal-fired generating units by December 1999. Units 1 and 2 began commercial operation in
1998 and 1999, respectively. There was an initial delay in the start-up of the first unit; however, the
start-up of the second unit took place earlier than scheduled. Overall, JPEPC completed the construction
and operation of the two units by December 31, 1999, as planned. There were some initial operating
problems, as noted in Section 5.1; however, at the end of the project, the operation of both units was highly
satisfactory.

Component 2:       Construction of two 500-kV Transmission Lines

Output: In August 1999, the project completed the construction of two transmission lines, about 45
kilometers long, for transmitting power from the Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant to Jiangdu substation,
linking the power plant to the East China Power System. The project also expanded the Jiangdu substation
by adding a second 750-kVA transformer. The latter not only has enabled the evacuation of power from
the Yangzhou Power Plant but more importantly has helped to improve the security of supply in the whole
system.

Component 3:       Engineering and Construction Management Services

Output: These services played a major role in the preparation and procurement of goods and works as well
as in the construction and management of the power plant. The preparation of bidding documents took



                                                       - 7 -

place at the end of October 1993 as planned in the SAR.

Component 4:         Environmental Management and Monitoring Program

Output:      The project's Environmental Management Program (EMP) monitored air pollution, water
pollution, noise levels, electromagnetic, field strength and other environmental factors relevant to the
construction and operation of the power plant and the transmission lines financed under the proposed
project. Supervision reports have indicated very favorable environmental performance overall. At the end
of the project (2002), a review of the EMP indicated that pollution levels were substantially less than the
allowable emissions based on both Chinese and World Bank standards. For example, emissions of
particulates were only 30 percent of the allowable levels based on World Bank standards and merely six
percent of the Chinese standards. At the same time, the review expressed concern about sulfur levels,
which increased by 14 percent between 2001 and 2002. However, even at the 2002 level of around 16,000
tons per year, these emissions still amounted to only 11 percent of the allowable emissions according to the
World Bank standard and 10 percent of the levels according to the Chinese standard. Furthermore,
pollution levels for waste water­industrial/chemicals, household sewage, oil pollution, etc. ­ as well as
electromagnetic field strength of transmission lines­were all within acceptable limits.

A key contribution of the project was the promotion of sustainable capacity for enhanced environmental
management and monitoring. For example, the project was instrumental in increasing the utilization of ash
(i.e. for cement plants) to reduce solid waste disposal from 2.4 percent in 2000 to nearly 40 percent in
2002. If this trend continues, the Yangzhou Power Plant should reach the rate of 50 percent or greater, as
indicated in the ash yard's design. The installation of high-efficiency electrostatic precipitators reduced
concentration of dust to 15-26 milligrams per cubic meter, considerably lower than the design estimate of
150 milligrams per cubic meter. Furthermore, the project encouraged local production of these
precipitators, thereby making them easily available for projects not financed by the Bank, and sustaining
the project's potential environmental benefits. The project's environmental training program exceeded
original estimates. The project trained 31 environmental specialists or more than four times the number
estimated at appraisal. Finally the Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant has made environmental planning an
integral part of its annual meetings.      Environmental experts collect and analyze environmental data
throughout the year and present their findings in quarterly reports submitted to plant managers and the
Yangzhou Environmental Bureau. Annex 8 provides a detailed review of the key indicators in the EMP.

Component 5:         Resettlement Program

Output: The project's resettlement completion report indicates that the overall impact of resettlement on
households due to the project's original components (power plant and 500-kV transmission line from
Yangzhou) was significantly less than in the original Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The project
involved the resettlement of 524 households, less than half the appraisal estimate of 1053 households. The
lower number of affected households resulted mainly from optimization of the transmission line and ash
yard designs, during project implementation, to minimize the resettlement impact.          The Yangcheng
transmission line component was not included in the project's original RAP and was subject to a separate
RAP. This component resulted in a larger number of households resettled than originally estimated­318
households compared to an estimate of 128 households.           The higher resettlement resulted from the
considerable length of the transmission line (about 600 km), crossing several provinces, and the related
difficulty in resettlement estimation during the planning process.

Follow-up surveys have indicated that the resettlement overall has resulted in improved housing conditions
and higher levels of per capita income for the affected households. The resettlement of 90 percent of the



                                                     - 8 -

population affected by the power plant's construction, from farm areas to the nearby town center, was the
resettlement operation's major challenge. Resettlement costs were higher than anticipated for this group
due to an underestimation of the full costs of the change in lifestyle and adverse economic conditions in the
resettlement area, affecting job availability. Resettlement authorities addressed these problems and by the
end of the project, the affected populations received equitable compensation. This compensation included:
(a) increases in the monthly living allowance for those with a pension; (b) lower costs for new housing; (c)
the provision of stable employment in the power plant; and (d) the establishment of self-employment fund
for those receiving benefits.     By the completion of the resettlement program, most of the affected
populations had restored or improved their livelihood. Annex 9 provides a summary of the resettlement
completion report.

Component 6:        Development and Implementation of Improved Accounting and Financial
                    Management Systems

Output: By the end of the project, JPEPC had developed and implemented an improved accounting and
budgeting system and had pilot-tested another system for improved financial management. The
development of these systems resulted from considerable study. A team of eleven managers and financial
staff from JPEPC visited Singapore and Hong Kong for an extensive study tour on ways to improve the
company's accounting and financial systems. They studied the experiences of Public Utilities Bureau
(PUB) in Singapore and China Light and Power in Hong Kong, which they summarized in a report. The
findings of this report helped JPEPC to strengthen its Financial Department. Following this study tour,
JPEPC hired an international consultant to assist the company in preparing: (a) a diagnostic study of
system requirements; (b) a framework for the new systems; (c) creation a financial handbook; (d)
evaluation of JPEPC's staff performance; and (e) provision for training.          JPEPC first developed an
accounting processing and budgeting system, more in line with commercial operation. Then, to further
improve efficiency, the company began developing Financial Management Information System (FMIS) 1.0.
This system covers budget management, business processing, financial management, and information
analysis. In late 2000, JPEPC tested the system in one power plant and one supply bureau. Based on
successful results, JPEPC is expanding the system to other power plants and supply bureaus and
incorporating new features, including billing and inventory management sub-systems. The company expects
all of its branches and subsidiaries to be using the system by the end of 2003.

Component 7:        Management Development and Training

Output: The project provided 890 staff months of training compared to 810 staff months estimated at
project appraisal. Of this total, more than half took place in China. Local training consisted of JPEPC's
sending operations and maintenance staff to new power plants for on-the-job training in advanced boiler,
turbine, and electrical equipment. The project also provided training in construction management, financial
management, customer management, and load management/dispatching. JPEPC also designed an overseas
training program for financial managers with the assistance of an international accounting firm. It covered
accounting, financial planning, budgetary control, cash management and financial market instruments.
JPEPC reached agreement with Electricite de France (EdF) for training in France of two provincial
government officials and JPEPC managers in decentralized customer management and pricing. The topics
included load forecast methodologies, power planning techniques, economic pricing and the operation of
autonomous distribution centers. The training also focused on the relationship between government
supervision agencies and state-owned utilities. To improve the technical operation of its system, JPEPC
joined with the Tokyo Electric Power Service Company of Japan for training the company's technical
managers and staff in centralized economic dispatch and load management techniques.




                                                      - 9 -

Component 8:        500-kV Transmission Line from Yangcheng to Jiangsu (600 km)

Output:     According to appraisal estimates, this transmission line originally was to be completed and
functioning by April 2000. The completion of this line took place in early 2001 and the line began
commercial operation in November 2001. Since the resolution of some initial difficulties, the line has been
operating reliably, serving the needs of the joint-venture Yangcheng Power Plant in delivering energy to the
Jiangsu Power Grid.

Contribution to Key Thematic Areas of Bank Lending

The project was approved in 1993, around the same time that the Bank published its guidelines for power
sector lending. The project was in line with these guidelines, which focused on power sector reforms to
promote commercialization of power companies and open the sector to private sector participation. During
the project's implementation period, the Bank began to focus on projects that would make a contribution to
important thematic areas of Bank operations.          These include improved governance, macroeconomic
stabilization, environmental sustainability and poverty reduction. Although the project's design took place
prior to this focus, the project has made some contributions to these areas. As described in Section 4.5, the
project resulted in the full commercialization of JPEPC. The project has contributed to improving the
governance of the power sector through dialogue with the Central Government on overall reforms to
separate utility operations from the Government and allow private sector participation. The project has
contributed to the macroeconomic stabilization of Jiangsu Province by reducing infrastructure bottlenecks
to economic growth and the value of production attributed to power supply from the project is estimated at
Y180 billion during 1999-2002. Through the transfer of modern load management and pollution control
technologies, the project also has made a substantial contribution to environmental sustainability, resulting
in reduced pollution levels. While the project did not have any direct poverty reduction goals, it has made
an indirect contribution by supporting infrastructure necessary for productive activities that are important
to economic growth, a key element in poverty reduction. In addition, the phasing out of power surcharges
in the electricity tariff structure has had recognized benefits for poor households in rural areas.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The power plant was part of the least-cost generation mix under a wide range of assumptions on
construction cost, commissioning date, fuel cost, discount rate, etc. However, the SAR also calculated an
internal economic rate of return (IERR) on the investment in the power plant and related facilities that the
project financed. To value the benefits of the investment, the SAR used an economic price of 37 fen (1993
prices) per kWh as a minimum proxy for the economic value of electricity. This price was equivalent to
the average price consumers paid in Jiangsu province during late 1993. The SAR calculated a benefit/cost
stream over the period 1992 to 2019, resulting in an IERR of 14 percent. As an alternative case, the SAR
also calculated an IERR of 17 percent based on the prices many consumers were paying at the time of
project appraisal due to the dual-track tariff structure. This price was about 42 fen per kWh. The ICR
re-estimate of the IERR is based on the same methodology as that of the SAR. A very conservative
estimate of the IERR is 12.7 percent, based on the average price paid by consumers excluding
Value-Added Tax (VAT). However, unlike certain taxes, such as those on company profits, the VAT, in
economic analysis, is considered part of what consumers are willing to pay for a product or service.
Therefore, the IERR calculation excluding the VAT only includes partial economic benefits. Based on the
price including the VAT, a better proxy for the consumer's willingness to pay the IERR of the project
amounts to 16 percent. Both rates compare favorably with the social discount rate of 12 percent used by
the Bank in project economic evaluation. However, it also should be noted that currently the discount rate
in China may well be below this rate given the ready availability of domestic and offshore financing for
investment projects.



                                                      - 10 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

There was no financial rate of return for the project estimated at appraisal. However, the project's legal
agreements included financial covenants designed to support JPEPC's commercialization and operation as
financially autonomous utility. During the project's implementation, as stipulated, JPEPC's internal cash
generation was equivalent to at least 1.5 times debt service requirements and the company met the
requirement of a net cash surplus equivalent to 30 percent of JPEPC's annual investment plan.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Prior to the project, JPEPC operated as a decentralized government department, (even though it was called
company). It carried out government functions, and its investments were decided by the Ministry of
Electric and Power and its budget allocated by the Government. At the end of the project, the company had
relinquished all the government functions its power bureau had been performing and is currently
functioning as an autonomous entity in line with the Company Law established in 1994. On the financial
side, the company had designed, tested and initiated the installation of improved financial and accounting
systems. At the same time, the project had helped to establish unified cost-based tariff, which, on average,
is in line with the long-run marginal cost of power supply in the Jiangsu Province. JPEPC had gained
exposure to international competitive bidding and direct relations with commercial financiers.
Furthermore, the company also had established a plan, outlined in Section 6.0, for developing a competitive
power market, which a follow-up Bank project will help the company implement. The commercialization
of JPEPC took place within the framework of progressive power sector reforms established by the Central
Government between 1996 and 2002. The Central Government enacted the Electricity Law in 1996, which
broke the state's monopoly on power generation. In the same year, it also established the State Power
Corporation to replace the Ministry of Electric and Power. In 1998, the Central Government established
provincial power companies as direct subsidiaries of the State Power Corporation and selected six
provinces to pilot power sector reform. Finally, in 2002, the Government established a comprehensive
reform program for competition and the establishment of a State Regulatory Commission to ensure fair
competition.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Lack of Adequate Interfacing and Coordination of Multiple Equipment Suppliers. The project included
a considerable amount of subcontracting by foreign companies to local Chinese companies. JPEPC faced
several delays in equipment delivery, due primarily to the lack of adequate engineering interfacing between
foreign suppliers and contractors during the early stage of the project. For example, there was a two-month
delay in the finalization of construction drawings because of insufficient interfacing between the boiler
contractor and the sub-contractor for the bottom ash handling system. Also there was a three-month delay
in the delivery of steel structures for both the boiler and turbine islands subcontracted to a local
manufacturer. Subcontracting issues were less problematic in subsequent projects as local manufacturing
companies adapted to international business practices.

Decline in Interest Rates. The decline in interest rates during the project's implementation period had
both positive and negative effects. The positive effect was a substantial lowering of the project costs, due to
actual interest during construction of about US$143 million, only 42 percent of the estimated cost of
US$335 million. The negative effect was on the pension fund for the residents who received monthly
income for the move from the farm areas to the Bali town center due to the power plant's construction.
The issue was addressed through additional contributions to the pension fund by the Yangzhou Thermal



                                                     - 11 -

Power Plant Project Office, the Hanjiang County Government, and the Yangzhou Municipal Government.
This led to an increase in income and improved the situation of affected population.

Changing Economic Conditions in the Town Area of Population Resettlement. Changes in economic
conditions in the Bali township area limited the prospects for providing the resettled population with
employment. According to resettlement plans, 349 residents were to receive factory jobs­250 of the
resettled residents were to receive jobs in the Bali Cement Factory, 69 in the Bali Rubber Factory­, and the
remaining 105 were to receive jobs from the Hanjiang County Labor Bureau. Only 66 persons were able to
obtain jobs in the factories but most left after a short time due to low and unstable wages. Given the lack
of job opportunities, at the request of the resettled population, the Hanjiang Government agreed to allocate
a self employment fund of Y 10,000 per person to all 321 qualified laborers. Also, at the request of the
Bank, the Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant Project Office and the Yangzhou Municipal Government made
an additional commitment to provide 100 service jobs in the power plant and training/job placement for 47
young people graduating from high school.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Alignment of Provincial Reforms with National Reforms. The Government delayed its approval of
JPEPC's reform plan until making a decision on a set of reform actions at the national level, outlined in
Section 4.5. In 1996, the Government enacted an Electricity Law, to provide the legal basis of and
principles for power sector development in China. Based on this new law, the Government prepared a
national power restructuring plan, which the State Council and National People's Congress had to approve.
The key elements in this plan affecting JPEPC's development was the State Council Document establishing
provincial power companies as direct subsidiaries of the State Power Corporation. The passage of the
necessary reforms at the national level and the approval process for JPEPC's reform action plan resulted in
a six-month delay in separation of JPEPC's government functions from the core operations of the company
(June 2002).

Views of the East China Group on Accounting and Financial Systems. A key reason for the delay in
the implementation of the accounting and financial information systems component was the considerable
importance the East China Group attached to these systems and the impact of their views on the project.
This group was likely to be the representative of the state shares in the power companies of Jiangsu,
Zhejiang, Anhui, and Shanghai. Since both JPEPC and the Zhejiang Provincial Electric Power Company
(ZPEPC) planned to engage international consulting firms under two different Bank-financed projects, the
East China Group held the view that the two should develop compatible systems and then later extend them
to the other power companies in the group.           The Bank agreed with this approach and encouraged
cooperation between the two entities. Due to the different pace of reform in the respective provinces, this
approach did not prove feasible. However, the Bank conducted joint supervision missions of both projects,
which helped transfer the lessons learned from Zhejiang to Jiangsu.

Change in Government Policy Towards Independent Power Producers (IPPs). The least-cost study for
the project originally did not consider the availability of power from private producers.            Central
Government policy at that time encouraged self-sufficiency in power generation at the provincial level and
limited private sector involvement. However, in the latter part of the 1990s, the Central Government began
to see the value of encouraging the construction of economically-justified, mine-mouth power plants to
transfer power from coal-rich regions. This was considered important to avoid overburdening the already
congested rail system for coal transport and limit pollution in densely populated areas, such as Nanjing.
Also, the Government began to encourage private sector involvement in generation projects as part of its
policy for promoting the diversification of financing sources for provincial power companies. As a result



                                                      - 12 -

of this policy change and market developments in Jiangsu Province, the Bank and JPEPC mobilized
financing for a second transmission line to transport power from the joint-venture Yangcheng Power Plant
to Jiangsu.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Procurement Performance.          Project implementation indicators show that the preparation of bidding
documents for the power plant was on schedule. As planned at appraisal, they were available in October
1993 and the review and approval took place close to the anticipated time.

Change in the Focus of the Training Program. During project implementation, both JPEPC and the
Bank contributed to the refinement of the comprehensive training program planned at appraisal. Overall
JPEPC felt that overseas training would not be effective if government officials were not trained together
with JPEPC's management and if trainees were not trained first in China by international experts familiar
with China's power sector. The Bank requested JPEPC to consider the more intensive and focused training
needs of its senior management and staff. JPEPC revised its training program taking these concerns into
account and implemented the program with Bank approval.

Reform Action Plan Implementation. While the Bank acknowledged constraints to implementing the
Reform Action Plan, pending action by the Central Government, it encouraged JPEPC to proceed with
studies that did not require Government approval.         These studies covered provincial power sector
restructuring, adequate wholesale pricing principles, and contractual arrangements for power
sales/purchases. The Bank stressed the importance of maintaining the momentum of reform and being
ready for implementation as soon as the Central Government had made a decision on the overall supporting
framework.

Cost Savings. As noted in Section 3.4 and 5.4, the project had significant foreign cost savings in the
procurement of power plant components financed by the Bank and ECO. Of these savings, JPEPC used
US$60 million for the construction of the Yangcheng to Huaiyin (Jiangsu) transmission line for which the
Bank amended the project. These savings further supported the project's objective of meeting the power
needs of Jiangsu Province.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Annex 2 summarizes project costs and financing. The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was
US$1,081.40 million equivalent.       However, following the amendment of the project to include the
Yangcheng transmission line component (1998), the total estimated project costs increased to US$1,626.41
million equivalent. The actual project cost was US$1,301.74 million equivalent or 20 percent lower than
the amended project cost. The lower cost resulted from a combination of: (a) efficient procurement; (b)
greater use of local contracting than originally planned; (c) advantageous market prices for major
components; and (d) lower interest during construction than expected.              The increased cost of
labor-intensive components, such as civil works was due to higher wages resulting from the market
economy transition. However, the resulting higher local cost was offset by lower foreign costs due to very
competitive market conditions, at the time of procurement, for major power plant components. Also
interest during construction amounted to less than half the estimated amount for the amended project. In
terms of financing, the Government and State/Provincial banks provided the largest share of financing, 67
percent, followed by the Bank's share at 25 percent and the cofinancing share of 8 percent.




                                                    - 13 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project's sustainability is highly likely. It substantially helped to commercialize JPEPC's operations
through structural reorganization, training and improved financial/accounting systems. The company has
competent staff to sustain technical operations. JPEPC's financial statements show it is financially sound
and capable of raising sufficient funds for system maintenance, expansion, and environmental monitoring.
The Yixing Pumped Storage Project will continue the restructuring of JPEPC by helping the company to
divest non-core businesses and develop it as a model for competitive power market development in China
and in other developing countries. The physical works financed are operating well. JPEPC has been able
to rectify initial problems with the thermal plants and transmission lines. Its procedures for operating large
power plants and substations are in line with international practice. The re-estimated rate of return on the
physical investment is satisfactory. As for the project's safeguards, the income and quality of life of the
resettled population overall has improved. Environmental monitoring of the power plant and transmission
lines has been highly satisfactory and the high quality of work is expected to continue since JPEPC and
regional authorities have the technical expertise and equipment to continue monitoring key environmental
indicators.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

JPEPC is already operating as a commercial utility and its financial situation is sound. The Yangzhou
Thermal Power Plant is well staffed to operate and maintain the plant. The follow-up Yixing Pumped
Storage Project plans to bring about further changes in JPEPC, consistent with Central Government
policies. The East China Region is considered to be the one with the best technical conditions and strongest
institutional capacity for implementing the first regional power market and for pilot-testing the access of
large consumers to generators. Under this follow-up project, JPEPC will serve as a model for the first
wholesale competitive electricity market in China. This model will include the following elements over a
nine-year period (2004-2012):

    (a) separating and transferring generating plants to newly-created generating companies at the national
         level before June 2003;

    (b) establishing or participating in a regional wholesale competitive market characterized by a spot
         market and access of large customers to generators through negotiated contracts, including prices,
         before the end of 2005;

    (c) setting up separate accounts and financial management of its transmission business, by June 2004,
         in preparation for a retail market extending the choice of suppliers to all consumers by 2012; and

    (d) spinning off all non-core businesses by the end of 2008.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in lending was satisfactory.           The appraisal team adopted an incremental
approach, taking into account the Borrower's implementing capabilities and reflecting China's gradual but
steady reform, beginning in the early 1980s. With hindsight, this approach has turned out to be more
effective than an all-out privatization approach promoted by power projects that the Bank designed in other



                                                     - 14 -

countries in the early 1990s. The composition of the appraisal team was appropriate, including specialties
in economics, engineering, finance, institutional development, environmental protection and resettlement.
Project Quality Control was carried out by a solid group of peer reviewers. Concerning project objectives,
with hindsight, it might have been helpful for the appraisal report to simplify them from six to two,
combining the two physical objectives and grouping the institutional objectives together as an integrated
package. However, as explained in Section 3.1, the appraisal team felt that more detailed, disaggregated
objectives were necessary at the time. The preparation of the expanded co-financing operation, as noted in
Section 3.3, was comprehensive and thorough.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. It benefited from continuity of supervision staff
with considerable country and sector experience. Field missions contained appropriate specialists. The
project conducted additional environmental monitoring and resettlement supervision missions, as necessary,
given the complexity of these aspects of the project and the high priority both the Bank and the Borrower
assigned to them. The supervision staff's understanding of political, economic and cultural conditions and
experience working in China's energy sector were valuable assets that resulted in a flexible but directed
approach that ultimately led the project to achieve more than originally intended. When a significant
opportunity arose in line with the Bank/Borrower strategy in the power sector, the Bank was responsive
and flexible in helping JPEPC further advance its sector development objectives.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The performance of the Borrower (the Government of China) and the Implementing Agency (JPEPC) in
project preparation was highly satisfactory. JPEPC did a substantial amount of preparatory work for both
the physical and institutional components, as indicated in Section 3.3. Concerning the resettlement of
population due to construction of the power plant and transmission lines, the Yangzhou municipality and
JPEPC set up a well-organized unit to handle resettlement planning and implementation. The arrangements
for relocation resulted from a participatory process that the Bank had found satisfactory at appraisal. On
the institutional side, the Government had supported a broad program of power sector reforms in line with
the overall country strategy of building a market economy. The key elements were: (a) rationalization of
the tariff structures to remove distortions; (b) measures to commercialize provincial power company
operations and promote greater autonomy from the Government; (c) realignment of the regulatory and legal
framework for the power sub-sector, including the establishment of a national electricity law; and (d)
strong encouragement of diversified financing and the use of guarantee mechanisms in support of
commercial financing. Furthermore, the Ministry of Finance was very proactive and cooperative during the
market sounding for the establishment of the expanded co-financing operation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The implementation performance of the Government was satisfactory. In line with the reform planned at
appraisal, the Government established the necessary legal and institutional framework for agreed power
sector reforms, discussed in Section 4.5. This performance contributed to the institutional impact of the
project on JPEPC. Furthermore, the enactment of additional reforms toward the end of the project paved
the way for opening the sector to competition and the development of a follow-up project to implement the
additional reforms in Jiangsu Province.



                                                   - 15 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of JPEPC was highly satisfactory. The Yangzhou Thermal Power Project was the
company's first involvement with the Bank and the company met or exceeded most of the project's output
indicators. Despite some initial difficulties in handling international competitive bidding for the first time,
the company's staff was able to make up for initial delays, completing the original project components
within the scheduled time frame. JPEPC was proactive in looking for opportunities to improve on the
project's design in the areas of environmental monitoring and resettlement, as well as in preparing the
additional transmission line component for IPP development. In addition, JPEPC was very responsive in
producing background reports for completion of the Bank's portion of the ICR.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall Borrower performance was highly satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Lessons of Broad Applicability

      · A gradual, realistic approach to major structural change in the power sector towards greater
        market orientation, tailored to country condition and incentives, can be very effective in
        creating a solid foundation from which to launch accelerated reforms. The Yangzhou Thermal
        Power Project took the approach of commercialization before privatization, with an integrated
        package of technical assistance, transfer of modern technologies, and separation of purely
        government-oriented functions from the company. Building on successful commercialization, by
        the end of the project's implementation period, the policy dialogue with the Government had
        advanced toward a competitive market for generation, to be pursued under a follow-up project.
        This approach was based on a high degree of project ownership by the Borrower, which is the most
        essential catalyst for successful reform. Also, as OED has noted in its review of other energy
        projects in China, the project benefited from the continuity of staff in supervision and the
        willingness of management to devote the resources to high-quality policy dialogue at the national
        level to build the foundation for appropriate, timely project design and implementation.

      · A clear, long-term vision for the power sector combined with a baseline of achievable actions
        and strategic flexibility in supervision can allow the project to advance sector reform when the
        opportunity arises. The Bank and the Borrower had a long-term vision for power sector reform.
        The project included foundational elements but the time frame for the additional intermediate steps
        towards a competitive market was open-ended. When the Government decided to open the power
        sector to independent power producers during project implementation, the Bank quickly responded
        and worked with JPEPC to develop an additional project component for the transmission
        infrastructure to benefit from a private, joint-venture power plant.

      · Resettlement involving a change in lifestyle requires a higher participatory effort in impact and
        compensation assessment. Initially there was an underestimation of compensation for populations
        resettled from rural areas to the town center. According to the completion report for the Yangzhou
        Power Plant Resettlement Program, the main lesson learned is the need to improve the assessment
        of compensation rates, particularly if major lifestyle changes are involved, with special attention to
        the more vulnerable groups, such as elderly residents. Social impacts of change in lifestyle of the
        affected people should also be carefully assessed during preparation of the RAPs.




                                                     - 16 -

8.2 Lessons Applicable to Power Projects in China Specifically

      · The approach of combining policy dialogue at the Central Government level with the testing of
        the policy through operations in selected provincial power companies was a key element in
        successful project outcome.      Given the enormous size of the country­with several tiers of
        government and varying issues among the regions/provinces­the pilot testing of reform ideas on
        model projects before moving to broad applicability has been a prudent and successful approach.
        Due to the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project, the JPEPC has become a successful model for
        commercialization with applicability to a number of other provinces.

      · A high sense of environmental awareness and ownership by implementing agencies and
        concerned authorities and detailed EMPs are required to             produce highly satisfactory
        environmental results. Close attention to environmental safeguards and high-quality performance
        in the implementation of EMPs and RAPs have been outstanding characteristics of many Bank
        projects in China, including the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project. This performance has resulted
        from a high sense of environmental "ownership" on the part of the Chinese authorities and the
        willingness of the Bank to provide the supervision resources to ensure consistent high-quality
        environmental monitoring and successful involuntary resettlement operations, which OED has
        recognized as examples of best practice.

      · The introduction of international competitive bidding and multiple suppliers along with
        substantial local contracting can reduce costs but requires close interfacing of engineering
        design parameters. The Yangzhou Thermal Power Project was the first experience of JPEPC with
        multiple (foreign and domestic) suppliers and the first large project in Jiangsu with significant
        sub-contracting to local suppliers.   Initially there were delays due to the lack of adequate
        interfacing. However, during the project's implementation, the suppliers gained contracting
        experience and JPEPC became more familiar with managing multiple suppliers. Furthermore the
        involvement of local contractors helped lower the cost of both the Yangzhou Thermal Power
        Project and the follow-up Yixing Pumped Storage Project.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                                         Borrower's Summary

Borrower:        P.R. China

Beneficiary:     JPEPC

Loan amount: $350 million equivalent (1994-2000)
                 The World Bank guarantee for $120 million equivalent co-financing from international
                 financial institutions

Project ID:      P003641

The Project

The Yangzhou No. 2 Thermal Power Plant (the Power Plant) is located in Bali Township of Hanjiang



                                                   - 17 -

District and is about 11 km from Yangzhou city in Jiangsu Province. Its site has favorable topographical
conditions and easy access by railroads, highways and river navigation. The Project is a priority area in the
national Ninth Five-Year Plan. The designed installed capacity is 2,400 MW in two phases. In the initial
phase, the Power Plant will have an installed capacity of 2 x 600 MW. The estimated budget is 8.9844
billion Yuan, of which the loan from the World Bank is $350 million and co-financing of $120 million. The
project is complemented by a coal wharf with a capacity of 35,000 tons; a coal yard with a capacity of
400,000 tons; an ash slurry yard of 367 ha and 550 kV switchyard.

Project Objectives

(a) support power subsector reforms at provincial level, through development of JPEPC as an autonomous
company; (b) contribute to further rationalization of power tariffs; (c) promote the use of modern financial
management techniques in transforming JPEPC's accounting system; (d) provide cost-effective and
environmentally sustainable generation capacity to alleviate an acute shortage of power and improve the
quality of the power supply; (e) assist in transferring modern technologies for large coal-fired power plants,
and in strengthening institutional capabilities for environmental management and monitoring; and (f) extend
technical assistance in management development and staff training programs.

Project Implementation

Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant Project is among the best in World Bank lending portfolio activities in
China. The Project has some significant features, which include (a) the Power Plant was put into operation
one year ahead of the plan; (b) the quality of the Project was high and obtained the Luban Award, the most
senior award in construction in China; (c) the cost was low, which was less than $750/KW; (d) repayment
was fast after the Power Plant was in operation. As of the end of 2002, the accumulated generation reached
20.7 billion KWH, which contributed greatly to the development of the regional economy as well as the
improvement of the local people's living standard, and was widely endorsed by local governments and
investors. Other important benefits brought by the project included:

1. Bidding and Tendering Management. Through the practices in International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures for main equipment procurement under the Project, the project owners deepened their
understanding on Bank procurement guidelines and procurement requirements. These practices ensured the
successful procurement of main equipment, saved the cost. On the other hand, they were also applied by the
project owners in domestic procurement and selection of construction agencies and lowered the project cost
significantly. Currently, the Power Plant is applying the bidding approach in its routine production
activities with regard to selection of spare parts, large goods and maintenance agencies.

2. Contract Management. The main equipment under the project consists of three parts: turbine; boiler;
I&C. The contracts contained a huge equipment system, which covered equipment, system, designs,
drawings, specifications, standards, training and commercial issues. The implementation of the contracts
related to coordination activities among various design agencies, construction agencies and contractors.
Compliance with the rules of contract was very important to solve conflicts among concerned parties. The
World Bank also helped to ensure contract enforcement through proper interventions and promoted the
project progress.

3. Corporate Restructuring. The implementation of reform program agreed with the World Bank during
the preparation of the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project helped JPEPC in achieving a smooth transition to
a corporatized and business oriented company and improving the management procedures and tools,
especially in the financial area (development and implementation of FMIS, which has now been widely


                                                       - 18 -

used in JPEPC headquarters and its subsidiaries.). In 1999, JPEPC led the country in abolishing the former
Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Bureau and became a pure commercialized company, which made
JPEPC pioneer in separating and transferring government functions to concerned government agencies.
During the preparation of the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project, the World Bank also helped JPEPC
improve the understanding of tariff setting, so that Jiangsu Province led the country in phasing out the
power surcharges that burdened final consumers, especially the poor households in rural areas, and in
introducing unified sale tariffs (1998) as a first step towards a comprehensive rationalization of final
consumer tariffs.

As a conclusion of the reform component, JPEPC had achieved successfully, (1) the smooth separation of
governmental function from power company in September 1999, and the operation of company in
commercial way under the government regulation; (2) the abolishment of local surcharges and fees on
power tariff, and the forming of uniform tariff in province with a reasonable structure and adjustment
mechanism in the end of 1998; (3) the initial establishment of financial information management system
within company in 1999; and (4) the optimization of company organization both in the headquarters and in
the subsidiaries in 1999 to meet the requirements of a commercial company.

4. Power System Enhancement. The units of Yangzhou thermal power project, so far, are the only and
biggest units in Jiangsu province directly connected to 500-kV network. This unique position in power
system determines its special role to maintain system frequency and voltage stable. As the major
components of units are imported with high technology standard from western countries via the World
Bank's ICB guideline, the function and performance of units are obviously advanced in fast load following
both at minimum load capacity and overload capacity to maintain system frequency stable, and in large
capability for reactive power regulating either generating or absorbing reactive power to keep system
voltage within the limits.

5. Institutional Development and Staff Training. This project financed by the World Bank is a large one
with huge investment and wide range of activities. It needed a wide array of coordination activities. Many
engineering and technical staff were trained through contract negotiations, construction coordination,
design and liaison, test and operations etc. in the past five and six years. While some of them goes back to
work for other domestic and foreign power firms, most of these staff are continuing to work in the Power
Plant in the fields of production and operational administration.

A reform component for the separation of governmental function from enterprise was designed under
Yangzhou thermal power project. A number of discussions on this topic between JPEPC and the World
Bank mission had been seriously carried out during the period of project implementation. With the aide of
the World Bank mission, JPEPC had invited several international consultants to provide training service for
its senior staffs and the officials in charge of power sector from provincial government. The training
covered mainly for power sector regulation, corporation and commercialization for power company,
financial information management system, tariff reform strategy, and environment protection and
resettlement management etc. The implementation of reform component and training program helps
JPEPC's staffs and the relevant government officials establish a correct concept for the sector development
and have know-how capability both for macro administration and for micro analysis and management for
corporation.

Project Operation and Energy Production

Since the operation of No. 1 and No. 2 units of the Power Plant in 1999 and as of 2002, their accumulative



                                                     - 19 -

operation has reached 27,418 hours and 26296 hours respectively. A total of 20.7 billion kWh of electricity
was generated. The total repayment was $227 million. The total profit was $36 million. The local tax
revenues reached $84 million. The performance of the units are satisfactory and consistent with the
comparable domestic units.

Environmental Management

Parallel with the civil construction, the Power Plant also carried out design, construction and operation of
the environmental protection facilities. After the generation units were put into operation, environmental
management and pollution control measures continued to be strengthened, and energy efficiency continued
to be a focus. Environmental practices of the Power Plant are among the best performance in China and
environmental status is satisfactory. Environmental quality has no significant changes prior to and after the
operation. A complete set of internal environmental protection management system was set up after
operations. Since 2002, ISO14001 management system was established and extended, and was certified
through China Center for Environmental Management.

Resettlement. Resettlement goals were achieved. The living standard of the resettled people were recovered
and increased gradually. Resettlement policies and relocation plans developed by the World Bank were well
implemented. Some specific issues related to resettlement relocation had been properly solved. Resettlement
and relocation in the project was successful.

Difficulties and Prospects

Yangzhou No. 2 Power Plant now has an experienced and energetic leading group. They are leading all
staff workers, following the requirements of modern enterprise system and referring to advanced
international pattern, to conduct operation and business of the power plant, and to make common efforts to
build the power plant as a first class modernized power enterprise with less administrative structures,
well-educated staffs and higher production rate.

This power plant has made profits since the second year after it was putting into commercial operation.
This achievement is the only one of similar power plants in China.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



10. Additional Information




                                                   - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

The Bank appraised the project before it had established the logframe performance indicator matrix for
project appraisal. However, the Staff Appraisal Report defined project implementation indicators, shown
below in Table A1.1. In addition, during project implementation, supervision staff established a set of
additional performance indicators.    Table A1.2 compares these indicators as defined during project
supervision with actual achievements. Table A1.3 provides implementation indicators defined for the
Yangcheng-Huaiyin Transmission Line component, added to the project in 1999.

                  Table A1.1: Implementation Indicators Defined at Project Appraisal


                               Activity                      Expected                Actual
                                                             Completion              Completion
                                                             Date                    Date

            Bidding Documents Available                    October 20, 1993        October 20, 1993
            Review and Approval of Bidding Documents       November 20, 1993       December 1993
            by the Bank
            Issuance of Bidding Documents                  November 30, 1993       December 15,1994
            Bid Opening                                    March 31, 1994          March 31 1994
            Bid Evaluation and Award                       July 1, 1994            October 27, 1994
            Contract Negotiation and Signing               October 1, 1994         December 1994
            Construction, Testing and Start-Up of the
            Power Plant
            Start Excavation                               April 1, 1994           March 28, 1996
            Start Boiler Steel Structure Erection          December 1, 1995        December 17, 1997
            Lifting of Boiler Drum                         June 1, 1997            August 29, 1997
            Hydraulic Testing of the Boiler                December 1, 1997        October 11, 1997/
                                                                                   June 23, 1998
            Complete Erection of the                       May 15, 1998
            Turbines/Generators and Auxiliaries
            Start-Up
                --First Unit                               June 1998               August 19, 1998
                --Second Unit                              June 1999               April 9, 1999
            Commercial Operation
                --First Unit                               December 1998           May 12, 1999
                --Second Unit                              December 1999           December 20, 1999
            Project Completion                             December 31, 1999       December 31, 1999




                                                 - 21 -

             Table A1.2: Performance Indicators Defined During Project Supervision

Development              Key Performance                  Target Defined during        Actual Achievement
Objective                Indicators                       Supervision

Sector-Related CAS      Increased value of production    Year  billion yuan            Year    billion yuan
Goal:                   attributed to expanded power     1999:        14               1999:     24.6
Support economic        supply from the Yangzhou         2000:        40               2000:     47.5
development by          Power Plant (in billion yuan)    2001:        56               2001:     51.0
reducing infrastructure                                  2002:        60               2002:     57.0
bottlenecks
Project Development                                      Availability of units         Availability of units
Objective                                                (%)                           (%)
                                                         Year    Unit 1    Unit 2      Year      Unit 1 Unit 2
Remedy power            Availability of power from the 1999         82        --       1999        87        --
shortages by providing  two new 600 MW units at the      2000       85        82       2000        80          93
efficient, reliable and Yangzhou Thermal Power           2001       88        85       2001        91          77
environmentally sound   Station for the years 1999-2002, 2002       90        88       2002        89          90
power supply.           monitored during project
                        supervision.                     Coal consumption in gce per   Coal consumption in
                                                         kWh                           gce/kWh

                                                         Year      Unit 1     Unit 2   Year      Unit 1     Unit 2
                                                         1999       330       330      1999         337        --
                                                         2000       324       324      2000         321        317
                                                         2001       320       320      2001         314        314
                                                         2002       318       318      2002         310        310
Outputs

1. Operation of the two  1.1 Construction and             1.1 Completion by December   1.1 The first unit began
new 600 MW units.        commissioning of the units,      1999                         commercial operation in June
                         monitored by site inspection.                                 1999 and the second unit in
                                                                                       December 1999.

2. Implementation of     2.1 Rationalization of the       2.1 Completion by December   2.1 The Government
power sector reform      power tariff structure           1998.                        rationalized the tariff structure
                                                                                       by unifying tariffs and
                                                                                       abolished power surcharges in
                                                                                       1998.

                         2.2 Separation of government     2.2 Completion by December   2.2 The separation of
                         functions from JPEPC             1999.                        government functions from
                                                                                       JPEPC took place in June of
                                                                                       2000, about six months later
                                                                                       than planned. The delay was
                                                                                       due to the need to align
                                                                                       provincial reforms with
                                                                                       Central Government reform
                                                                                       policy following the enactment
                                                                                       of the Electricity Law in 1996.
                                                                                       JPEPC corporatized all of its
                                                                                       power plants in 2000 and it
                                                                                       restructured its organizational
                                                                                       framework in 2000.

3. Institutional         3.1 810 staff months of          3.1 Completion by December   3.1 The project exceeded the
Development              training                         2000.                        training target, completing 890
                                                                                       staff months in finance,




                                                - 22 -

                                                                                    accounting and technical
                                                                                    operations as well as an
                                                                                    additional 17 staff months of
                                                                                    training in environmental
                                                                                    monitoring and management

                          3.2 Installation of new       3.2 Completion by December  3.2 The project financed
                          accounting and financial      2000                        consulting services to
                          information management                                    determine system
                          systems.                                                  requirements, design a
                                                                                    framework for the new
                                                                                    systems, prepare a financial
                                                                                    handbook and help train
                                                                                    JPEPC staff. The
                                                                                    development of a new system
                                                                                    will take place in phases.
                                                                                    JPEPC developed an account
                                                                                    processing and reporting
                                                                                    system that has begun
                                                                                    operation in all branches.
                                                                                    Then it developed a system for
                                                                                    improved financial
                                                                                    management that began trial
                                                                                    operation in late 2000. Given
                                                                                    the successful trial, it should
                                                                                    be operational in all branches
                                                                                    and subsidiaries by the end of
                                                                                    2003.



   Table A1.3: Implementation Indicators for the Yangcheng-Huaiyin Transmission Line

Activity                           Expected Completion Date Actual Completion Date
Bidding Documents Available        December 1997                   December 1997
Review and Approval of Bidding     April 1998                      February 1998
Documents By the Bank
Issuance of Bidding Documents      May 1998                        March 1998
Bid Opening                        July 1998                       May 1998
Bid Evaluation and Award           October 1998                    July 1998
Contract Negotiation and Signing October 1998                      August 1998
Construction, Testing and
Start-Up of the
Yangcheng-Huaiyin Project
Line Works
 ­Construction and Installation    March 2000                      May 2000
 ­Final Test and Commissioning     April 2000                      June 2000
Switch Station Works
­Construction and Installation     February 1998                   May 1999
­Final Test and Commissioning      August 2000                     December 2000




                                                - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Costs by Component (US$ million)

        Components            Appraisal Revised Estimate Actual / Latest Actual as Share
                              Estimate   as Amended in     Estimate       of Revised
                                              1998                         Estimate
                                                                           (Percent)

Preparatory Works                2.50          2.50            1.44            58
Land Acquisition &              23.00          23.00         19.52             85
   Resettlement
Civil Works                     69.70          69.70        167.35           240
Harbor Works                    17.20          17.20           0.60             3
Power Plant Equipment and       517.80        457.80        520.47           101
   Materials
Transmission Network            50.90          50.90         69.83           137
Construction Administration     13.10          13.10           5.33            41
Engineering Services             8.30          8.30            6.14            74
Environmental Program            1.00          1.00            1.08          108
Management Information           2.50          2.50            2.28            91
   Systems
Training                         3.40          3.40            4.20          124
Yangcheng-Huaiyin                             436.08        297.32             68
Transmission Line                   --
      Total Base Cost           709.40      1,085.48      1,095.56           101
Contingencies
Physical                        48.00          68.97          --                --
Price                           61.00          80.93          --                --
Taxes & Duties                  14.40          55.22         63.61           120
         Total Project Cost     832.80      1,290.60      1,158.69             90
Interest During Construction    248.60        335.81        142.57             42
 Total Financing Required     1,081.40      1,626.41      1,301.74             80




                                         - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              0.00            243.31            243.31
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                               332.12              0.00            109.19            381.52            822.83
                                         (332.12)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (332.12)
   3. Services                             4.02               0.00              1.11             24.29            29.42
                                          (4.02)             (0.00)            (1.07)            (0.00)           (5.09)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                              336.14              0.00            110.30            649.12           1095.56
                                         (336.14)            (0.00)            (1.07)            (0.00)          (337.21)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Works                          0.00        106.00        0.00        0.00        243.31      0.00        0.0     229.5      0.0
Goods                         361.70       555.28      160.00       332.12       381.52     109.19      91.8      68.7     68.2
Services                      10.50        41.90         0.00        5.09         24.29      0.04       48.5      58.0      0.0
Interest During                0.00        391.03        0.00        0.00        206.18      0.00        0.0      52.7      0.0
Construction
TOTAL                         372.20      1094.21      160.00       337.21       855.30     109.23      90.6      78.2     68.3




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Least-Cost Analysis

The basis of the economic analysis for the appraisal of the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project's was the
least-cost expansion plan for the Jiangsu provincial power system, prepared by the Beijing Economic
Research Institute for Water Resources and Electric Power (BERIWREP). The project considered several
fuel alternatives for power generation and found two coal-fired 600-MW units to be the least-cost
alternative. The analysis noted that the province relied on coal to meet two-thirds of its energy needs.
Most of the coal came from other parts of China, as the province's own coal resources were not
substantial. Oil resources were small and there were virtually no natural gas resources. Hydropower
resources were minimal, accounting for only 0.3 percent of the province's installed power capacity. The
least-cost study considered several alternative expansion scenarios for the provincial power system but the
Yangzhou Thermal Power Project turned out to be the least-cost solution in all cases. The net present
value (NPV) of the "without Yangzhou" scenarios was 1.1 % higher than the least- cost generation mix
including Yangzhou.

JPEPC and BERIWREP reviewed a variety of expansion sequences between 1993 and 2010 in detail.
Discounted at a rate of 12 percent, the present value cost of the "second best" expansion sequence exceeded
the base-case expansion plan with the Yangzhou project by Y1.4 billion. JPEPC had forecast average
annual growth of 11 percent during the expansion period but found that even at a rate of 6 percent the
Yangzhou Thermal Power Project would be the least-cost solution.            Furthermore, several sensitivity
analyses regarding the discount rate, cost and commissioning of the plant and the coal price further
indicated the robustness of the least-cost solution. Key cost advantages in the case of the Yangzhou
Thermal Power Project included the plant's proximity to an existing 500-kV substation, the availability of
an inexpensive ash disposal site near the generating plant, and the plant's proximity to coal facilities on the
Changjiang River. Also, from environmental and energy efficiency perspective, the Yangzhou Thermal
Power Project (and other 600-MW units) had major environmental benefits compared to alternative
solutions. Without the Yangzhou project, local governments and enterprises were likely to make more
investments in smaller units of 50 MW or less. This was likely to result in coal consumption and sulfur
dioxide emissions more at least 60 percent higher than the more efficient 600-MW units that the project
was to introduce to the Jiangsu Province.

Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) Analysis at Appraisal

The economic evaluation at appraisal was complemented by a cost/benefit analysis. On the cost side, the
analysis considered the estimated costs of the Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant and associated investments
in transmission and distribution. On the benefits side, it used an economic price of 37 fen/kWh (in 1993
prices) as a minimum proxy for the economic value of electricity, equivalent to the average price of
electricity consumers actually paid in the Jiangsu Province in late 1993. The resulting IERR amounted to
14 percent. The analysis also included a less conservative estimate of the IERR using the average
guidance price of 42 fen/kWh that many consumers in Jiangsu Province were paying for electricity at the
time of project appraisal. The result was an increase in the IERR to 17 percent. The IERR in both cases
was higher than the discount rate of 12 percent. The economic analysis also determined that the IERR
would be equal to the 12 percent discount rate in the following cases­: a 20 percent project cost overrun, a
20 percent increase in the coal price, and a one-year delay in the commissioning of the plant. Table A3.1
summarizes the key values assumed in the economic evaluation at appraisal.

                        Table A3.1: Key Values Assumed in the Economic Analysis


                                                    - 26 -

                                      Item                                  Appraisal Estimate
                Official Exchange Rate (Y/$)                                    8.7
                Shadow Exchange Rate (Y/$)                                      9.0
                Standard Conversion Factor                                     0.97
                Coal price:
                    Export Price FOB Qinhuangdao ($/TOE)                       32.0
                    Export Price in Y/TCE                                      278.4
                    Price of Coal (Y/TCE)                                       310
                Net Heat Rate (gce/gWh)                                        0.02
                T & D Investment as a percentage of local Y                     50
                     generation investment
                Project Operation ( hours per year)                            6,500
                Financial Electricity Value in Y per kWh                       0.370
                Economic Electricity Value in Y/kWh                            0.358
                Discount rate (%)                                               12


ICR Re-Estimate of the IERR

The ICR re-estimate of the IERR followed the same basic approach as the appraisal estimate, considering
the costs of the power plant and associated facilities and using an economic tariff as a proxy for the
consumers' willingness to pay for electricity. In valuing the benefits, the ICR analysis used an economic
tariff of 34.2 fen/kWh, which excluded the Value Added Tax (VAT), and an economic tariff of 40.2
fen/kWh, which included the VAT. Excluding the VAT resulted in a re-estimated IERR of 12.7 percent,
which represents a minimum return. However, the tariff including the VAT is a better proxy for the
consumers' willingness to pay. As a result, the re-estimated IERR with the VAT, which amounts to 16
percent, would be a more appropriate measure of benefits. The following tables present the results of the
analyses and the key values used.

Table A3.2a: Results of the IERR Analysis for the Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant (Excluding VAT)




                                                     - 27 -

Year        Energy                                    Cost                            Benefit        Net Benefit
            Generation    Investment               O&M Cost            Total

                                         Fixed          Variable
            GWh           mill. yuan     mill. yuan     mill. yuan     mill. yuan     mill. yuan     mill. yuan
        1992                                                                      0.0                           0.0
        1993                                                                      0.0                           0.0
        1994                        224.0                                        224.0                       -224.0
        1995                        615.4                                        615.4                       -615.4
        1996                       1283.3                                       1283.3                      -1283.3
        1997                       2805.9                                       2805.9                      -2805.9
        1998                       1479.0          192.2           0.0          1671.2           0.0        -1671.2
        1999        1295.1          580.6          209.6          149.7          940.0          421.6        -518.4
        2000        5405.3                         209.6          625.0          834.7         1759.8         925.2
        2001        5836.2                         209.6          674.8          884.5         1900.1        1015.6
        2002        6000.0                         209.6          693.8          903.4         1953.4        1050.0
        2003        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2004        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2005        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2006        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2007        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2008        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2009        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2010        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2011        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2012        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2013        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2014        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2015        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2016        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2017        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2018        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
        2019        7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2539.5        1427.9
Total            151136.6          6988.2         4594.8        17475.9        29059.0        49205.9        20147.0
NPV(1993)         27647.8          4520.6         1008.6         3196.9         8726.2         9001.4          275.2
NPV(2002)         76669.6         12536.0         2797.1         8865.3        24198.4        24961.5          763.2
EIRR                12.7%




                                                 - 28 -

Table A3.2b: Key Values Used in the IERR Analysis
 Exchange Rate (Y/$)                               8.28
 Standard Conversion Factor                        1.05
 Coal Price
 Export Price FOB Qinhuangdao($/TON)               32.6
 Export Price in Yuan (Y/TON)                      269.9
 Shadow Price for Coal (Y/TCE)                     373.0 Yuan/tce
 Generation Coal Consumption                       310.0 gce/kWh
 Annual Operation Hours                            6500 Hours
 Plant Consumption Rate                            4.77%
 Fixed O&M Rate                                    3.0%
 Economic Tariff                                   0.342 Yuan/kWh
 Social Discount Rate                              12.0%




Table A3.2c: Summary Results of IERR Analysis
 IERR (in percent)                                              12.7
 Present Value of Costs (million Yuan)                          8726
 Present Value of Benefits (in GWh)                             27648
 Present Value of Benefits (million Yuan)                       9001
 Shadow Average Incremental Cost (Yuan per kWh)                 0.316 Yuan/kWh
 Breakeven Tariff (Yuan per kWh)                                0.331 Yuan/kWh
 Shadow Plant Capital Cost (Yuan per kW)                        3926
 Shadow Plant Capital Cost ($ per kW)                           681
 Fiancial Plant Capital Cost (Yuan per kW)                      3739
 Fiancial Plant Capital Cost ($ per kW)                         649




                                       - 29 -

Table A3.3a Results of the IERR Analysis for the Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant ( Including VAT)

         Year         Energy                                    Cost                            Benefit        Net Benefit
                      Generation    Investment               O&M Cost            Total

                                                   Fixed          Variable
                      GWh           mill. yuan     mill. yuan     mill. yuan     mill. yuan     mill. yuan     mill. yuan
                 1992                                                                       0.0                           0.0
                 1993                                                                       0.0                           0.0
                 1994                         224.0                                        224.0                       -224.0
                 1995                         615.4                                        615.4                       -615.4
                 1996                        1283.3                                       1283.3                      -1283.3
                 1997                        2805.9                                       2805.9                      -2805.9
                 1998                        1479.0          192.2           0.0          1671.2           0.0        -1671.2
                 1999         1295.1          580.6          209.6          149.7          940.0          493.3        -446.7
                 2000         5405.3                         209.6          625.0          834.7         2059.0        1224.3
                 2001         5836.2                         209.6          674.8          884.5         2223.1        1338.6
                 2002         6000.0                         209.6          693.8          903.4         2285.5        1382.1
                 2003         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2004         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2005         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2006         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2007         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2008         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2009         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2010         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2011         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2012         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2013         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2014         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2015         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2016         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2017         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2018         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
                 2019         7800.0                         209.6          901.9         1111.6         2971.2        1859.6
         Total             151136.6          6988.2         4594.8        17475.9        29059.0        57570.9        28512.0
         NPV(1993)          27647.8          4520.6         1008.6         3196.9         8726.2        10531.6         1805.4
         NPV(2002)          76669.6         12536.0         2797.1         8865.3        24198.4        29205.0         5006.6
         EIRR                  16.0%


               Table A3.3b: Key Values Used in the IERR Analysis
                 Exchange Rate (Y/$)                                                  8.28
                 Standard Conversion Factor                                           1.05
                 Coal Price
                 Export Price FOB Qinhuangdao($/TON)                                  32.6
                 Export Price in Yuan (Y/TON)                                         269.9
                 Shadow Price for Coal (Y/TCE)                                        373.0 Yuan/tce
                 Generation Coal Consumption                                          310.0 gce/kWh
                 Annual Operation Hours                                               6500 Hours
                 Plant Consumption Rate                                               4.77%
                 Fixed O&M Rate                                                       3.0%
                 Economic Tariff                                                      0.400 Yuan/kWh
                 Social Discount Rate                                                 12.0%




                                                         - 30 -

Table A3.3c: Summary Results of the IERR Analysis
 IERR (in percent)                                 16.0
 Present Value of Costs (million Yuan)             8726
 Present Value of Benefits (in GWh)                27648
 Present Value of Benefits (million Yuan)          10532
 Shadow Average Incremental Cost (Yuan per kWh)    0.316 Yuan/kWh
 Breakeven Tariff (Yuan per kWh)                   0.331 Yuan/kWh
 Shadow Plant Capital Cost (Yuan per kW)           3926
 Shadow Plant Capital Cost ($ per kW)              681
 Fiancial Plant Capital Cost (Yuan per kW)         3739
 Fiancial Plant Capital Cost ($ per kW)            649




                                      - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                    Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              November 1992             6    Task Manager
                                             Senior Power Engineer
                                             Financial Analyst
                                             Senior Economist
                                             Environmental Specialist
                                             Resettlement Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              October 1993              9    Task Manager
                                             Senior Power Engineer
                                             Financial Analyst
                                             Senior Economist
                                             Senior Counsel
                                             Senior Co-Finance Officer
                                             Environmental Specialist
                                             Resettlement Specialist
                                             Consultant

 Supervision

              07/22/1995                3    Financial Analyst                 S               S
                                             Senior Economist
                                             Senior Power Engineer
              03/20/1996                5    Sr. Financial Analyst             S               S
                                             Operations Officer
                                             Senior Economist
                                             Senior Power Engineer
                                             Resettlement Specialist
              04/09/1997                4    Senior Financial Analyst          S               S
                                             Senior Economist
                                             Senior Power Engineer
                                             Resettlement Specialist
              04/18/1998                2    Energy Specialist                 S               S
                                             Power Engineer
              02/25/2000                3    Task Team Leader                  S               S
                                             Principal Energy Specialist
                                             Energy Specialist
              05/27/2001                3    Power Engineer                    S               S
                                             Environmental Specialist
                                             Resettlement Specialist
              11/07/2001                1    Environmental Specialist          S               S
              04/05/2002                2    Operations Officer                S               S
                                             Senior Energy Specialist

 ICR
              11/27/2002                1     Resettlement Specialist
              01/16/2003                1     Environmental Specialist



                                              - 32 -

               04/05/2003             2     Task Team Leader                  S    S
                                            Power Engineer



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            66.3                         266.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 47.9                         188.0
  Supervision                           88.8                         344.7
  ICR                                     5.0                          10.7
  Total                                208.0                         809.9




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Local and provincial economic impact
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Preparation and Appraisal Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, China: Yangzhou Thermal Power Project, Report No. 13780-CHA, June 16,
1994.

Memorandum from the President: Yangzhou Thermal Power Project (3718-CHA), --Proposed
Amendments to the Loan and Project Agreements to Provide Transmission Facilities for IPP Development.
March 16, 1998

Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$ 145 Million to the People's
Republic of China for Yixing Pumped Storage Project, Report No. 24896, February 21, 2003.

Supervision Documents
        - Project Status Reports from April 1994 to December 20, 2002 averaging two reports per year.
        - Selected mission Aide Memoires with the following dates:

            August 1995             May 3, 2000
            April 1, 1996           April 24, 2001
            March 1997              May 22, 2001
            December 1997           April 2002
            April 1998              July 8, 2002
            September 1999          December 2002

Other Documents

Yangzhou Thermal Power Project, Resettlement Completion Report, May 2003.

The Bank's Assistance to China's Energy Sector: An OED Country Evaluation, Report No. 21891,
February 28, 2001.

Post-Evaluation Report on Land Acquisition and Resettlement of Yangzhou No. 2. Power Plant in China,
NRCR, Hohai University, January 2003.

Economic Evaluation of Yangzhou Thermal Power Project, State Power Economic Research Center,
March 2003.




                                                 - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Review of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP)

1. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project (Yangzhou 2)
consisted of the following four elements: (a) mitigation plan, (b) monitoring plan, (c) institutional
development, and (d) environmental management arrangements. Each of these elements is discussed below
comparing results of project implementation with project design.                                   In addition, Yangzhou 2 project
performance will be compared to performance of Yangzhou 1, a project financed without World Bank
resources. In this way, a measure of value added and sustainability from the World Bank intervention can
be assessed.

Mitigation Plan

2. The mitigation plan as presented in the Staff Appraisal Report, as implemented under the projects
Yangzhou 2 and Yangzhou 1 are detailed in Table A8.1:

                                                    Table A8.1 Mitigation Plan

                        Yangzhou 2 (World Bank Financed)                                                                 Yangzhou 1
Environmental Issue                     As Designed                           As Implemented                           As Implemented
Power Plant
          SO2           · Low sulfur coal (0.31%)                 · Low sulfur coal (0.41%) High stack     · Uses 1.07% sulfur coal
                        · High stack (240 meters)                    (240 meters)                          · Stack height < 210 meters
                        · Reserve FGD space                       · Reserve FGD space                      · Emissions 800 mg/m3
                                                                  · Emissions 400 ­ 600 mg/m3
          Dust          High efficiency (99.6%) electrostatic     Locally manufactured ESP provides        Locally manufactured ESP (No. 3
                        precipitator (ESP) to meet 150 mg/m3      99.72 % efficiency and exit              Plant) provides 98 % efficiency and exit
                        exit concentration                        concentrations of 15-26 mg/m3            concentration of 550 mg/m3
          NOx           Low NOx burner as necessary to meet       Low NOx burner installed. NOx            No control. Emissions ~ 1000 mg/m3
                        emission standard of 258                  emissions 203-460 mg/m3 (~151-230
                        nanograms/joule                           nanograms/joule)
 Chemical Wastewater    Collect and treat in chemical wastewater  Wastewater recycled in part to           Discharged after neutralization
                        plant                                     transport ash slurry remainder sent to
                                                                  chemical wastewater treatment plant
    Living Sewage       Biological treatment                      Biological treatment                     Discharged after biological oxidation
Oil Polluted Wastewater Passed through sump for oil skimming      Passed through sump for oil skimming     Discharged after oil and water
                        then to oil-water separator.              then to oil-water separator (effluent    separation
                                                                  discharge levels of oil: 2.3-9.6 mg/L)   (less than 10 mg/L)
    Coal Pile Runoff    Coal settling basin. Coal fines recovered Coal settling basin. Coal fines          Coal settling basin. Coal fines recovered
                        or disposed in ash yard                   recovered.                               or disposed in ash yard
  Ash slurry (ash and   Hydraulically transferred to ash and      Concentrated coal ash transported        Hydraulically transferred to ash and
          slag)         slag yard. Surface kept wet. Water        hydraulically to ash and slag yard.      slag yard. Surface kept wet. Water
                        recycled. Trees planted around the yard   Water recycled, no discharge. Coal ash   recycled. Comprehensive use of ash
                        to minimize dust formation. When yard     utilization increases yearly 2002 it was slurry in road and building construction,
                        is filled, to be covered with clay and    39.8%                                    and in cement and construction material
                        planted. Powdered coal ash to be                                                   industry
                        recycled >50%
         Noise          Maximum noise level of equipment <        Maximum noise level of equipment <       Excessive noise levels in the cooling
                        90dB(A) according to Chinese              90dB(A) according to Chinese             tower ambient area
                        regulations. Noise isolating covers and   regulations. Noise isolating covers
                        room built wherever necessary.            installed for concentration control
                        Silencers to be installed on the boiler   room, slurry control room, and
                        safety valve, exhaust pipes and forced    chemical control room. Silencers to be
                        draft fan                                 installed on the boiler safety valve,
                                                                  exhaust pipes and forced draft fan
Coal Jetty
       Coal Dust        · Water spray on unloading machine        · Water spray on unloading machine       · Water spray on unloading machine
                        · Enclose belt conveyors                  · Enclose belt conveyors                 · Enclose belt conveyors
                        · Dust collectors at coal transfer points · Dust collectors at coal transfer       · Dust collectors at coal transfer points
                                                                     points
 Coal Polluted Water    · Contaminated water spray collected      · Contaminated water spray collected     · Contaminated water spray collected
                           and directed to settling basin. See       and directed to settling basin. See      and directed to settling basin. See
                           "Coal Pile Runoff"                        "Coal Pile Runoff"                       "Coal Pile Runoff"




                                                                  - 37 -

Transmission Line
   Electromagnetic  Avoid areas sensitive to signal          Avoid areas sensitive to signal     Avoid areas sensitive to signal
      Radiation     interference and high population density interference and high population    interference and high population density
                                                             density
        Noise       Avoid areas sensitive to signal          Avoid areas sensitive to signal     Avoid areas sensitive to signal
                    interference and high population density interference and high population    interference and high population density
                                                             density
   Bird Protection  Install bird repelling facilities        No action taken yet


3. Bank intervention played a significant role in improving emission levels particularly for dust and
nitrogen oxides. Additionally, the Bank's standards for sulfur dioxide emissions required the project to
utilize a better quality of coal than had been used in the past. As a result, sulfur dioxide emissions from the
World Bank project were estimated at 66 tons/day (Chinese standard is ~ 520 tons/day) and the actual
emissions are about 44 tons/day. In comparison, Yangzhou Phase 1 emits about 25 tons/day. It must be
kept in mind that Yangzhou 2 has a 300 percent greater capacity than Yangzhou 1). The improvements in
dust emission control and the development of Chinese capability to manufacture electrostatic precipitators
to these higher standards has resulted in reduced dust emissions from power stations throughout China, and
is one of the chief sustainability accomplishments of the project.

4. Wastewater recycling was introduced as an element of improving plant efficiency.                                   Instead of
treatment, a fraction of the wastewater was reused to slurry and transport ash to the ashyard. As a result,
wastewater treatment requirements were reduced, less (treated) wastewater was discharged to the
environment, and the plant reduced its' fresh water input requirements by 2000 tons/month.

5. Ash use although designed for 50 per cent has not yet reached that target. Nonetheless, the numbers
have been steadily increasing from 2.4% in 2000, to 21% in 2001, to 39.8% in 2002. Based upon JPEPC's
records (91 percent utilization for Yangzhou 1) the figures for Yangzhou 2 are expected to increase to the
maximum possible (the higher calcium content of the Yangzhou 2 ash over Yangzhou 1 ash limit the
amount which can be reused).

Monitoring Plan

6. Air Quality. The project was designed for:                       (a) continuous emission monitoring (CEM), (b)
electrostatic precipitator performance monitoring, (c) ambient air quality monitoring both inside and
outside the plant fence, and (d) dust monitoring at the ashyard.

7. Although CEM had been previously used in China before the Bank project, operating experience was
dismal, the CEM units usually become nonfunctional in a short period of time and were never repaired.
The Bank team maintained pressure on their Chinese counterparts to keep the CEM system running
properly. With this pressure, the Chinese developed the necessary skills to properly operate and maintain
these systems. Now their proper performance is routine.

8. Prior to the World Bank project ambient air quality monitoring was not normally done on a continuous
basis in domestic thermal power stations. Yangzhou officials felt that the continuous ambient air quality
monitoring as originally prescribed in the project design was inappropriate.                       They did not feel that
operating and maintaining air quality monitoring equipment was cost effective. As a consequence,
Yangzhou officials purchased the air quality monitoring equipment and donated it to the Jiangsu
Environmental Protection Bureau with the understanding that they were to operate and maintain the
equipment for monitoring outside the plant fence. Yangzhou officials believed that this was a good model
for their future operations and reflects a significant advance in sustainable institution building.




                                                             - 38 -

9. Ambient air quality monitoring inside the plant and at the ashyard as indicated in the EMP is
performed four times a year by the Yangzhou Environmental Protection Bureau (YEPB). Measurements
for total suspended particulates (TSP), SO2, NOx, and "settle-able" dust are made. Originally, it was
planned to purchase a mobile monitoring vehicle and perform the measurements in-house. However, it was
determined that this was not cost effective, so YEPB was contracted to do the work instead. Prior to
Yangzhou 2, no such measurements were made at the plant site Yangzhou 1.

10. Water Quality. The monitoring is conducted for both treated effluents (industrial wastewater-chemical
treatment, household sewage-biological treatment, runoff collection systems-sedimentation) as well as
groundwater in the vicinity of the ashyard. Monitoring has been done for all physical and chemical
parameters deemed appropriate by Chinese standards and World Bank guidelines as specified in the project
design. All results have consistently been within these standards.

11. Noise and Electromagnetic Radiation. The EMP required noise monitoring of specific equipment
pieces (e.g. fans, coal pulverizer etc.) and outside the plant fence. Measurements were made of equipment
when it was commissioned. It was determined that standards were met. Measurements are updated once
every year.

12. Monitoring of the electromagnetic field along the transmission line was made when the system was
energized and all values were within Chinese standards.

13. Labor Safety and Health. The program for monitoring of labor safety and health implemented under
the World Bank project is performed by the Jiangsu Provincial Health Bureau (JPHB) at the Borrowers
expense. The Borrower had indicated that workplace measurements of dust and poison gases were not
varying much from one month to the next and with the World Bank's approval, the monitoring frequency
was reduced from once/month to once every two months.

Institutional Development

14. Training.    The training program defined in the EMP consisted of three study tours (a total of 17
man-months) as follows:

                                Table A8.2 Environmental Training Program

                Subject                 Personnel        Number of     Tour Period      Host Country
                                                            Staff       (Months)
       Power plant                 Plant
       environmental protection    environmental              2             2           USA, Europe
       administration and          protection staff
       control technology
       Power plant flue gas        Plant
       desulfurization and         environmental              2             2           Germany, Japan
       pollution control           protection staff
       Power plant pollution       Plant
       source monitoring           environmental              3             3           USA, Europe
                                   monitoring staff


15. Actual training consisted of two study tours conducted in 1997 and 2000 respectively and, engaging an
environmental protection specialist from a Western Europe power company Electricite de France (EdF) to
visit China for a series of lectures.


                                                      - 39 -

16. Lectures from the EdF environmental specialist were conducted over a period of seven days. About
fifty technical specialists from Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company, Jiangsu Provincial Electric
Power Research Institute, Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Design Institute, and environmental protection
staff of Yangzhou power station participated. Subject matter included environmental protection laws and
regulations of France and the European Union, environmental management, pollution control technology
and ash utilization.

17. The study tour of 1997 consisted of twenty-five environmental protection specialists traveling to
Germany for a period of fifteen days. They studied advanced environmental management procedures,
pollution control technologies (including flue gas desulfurization and ash use, and gypsum use)
environmental monitoring, and Western environmental protection laws and regulations. The program was
of significant value to the participants who were from the environmental protection and monitoring units of
Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company (JPEPC), its affiliated companies and power plants. They are
now prepared to implement stricter environmental regulations anticipated for the sector.

18. For the year 2000 study tour, eight technical specialists and senior staff from JPEPC and Yangzhou 2
involved with environmental management and monitoring visited the United States and Australia for
seventeen days. They studied advanced pollution control technologies, environmental laws and regulations,
environmental control technologies for transmission projects, and baghouse dust collection systems.

19. The level of effort for the overall program as implemented was 17.3 man-months, which is quite close
to the original assignment of 17 man months as included in the project design. However, the number of
trainees involved is much greater than the program as originally presented (31 participated in study tours
compared to the original project design of 7), and the Borrower believes that the program as implemented
was considerably more effective.         Since the EMP for Yangzhou 2 placed a greater burden for
environmental management on their staff, the environmental unit for Yangzhou 2 has about twice the staff
as the corresponding unit for Yangzhou 1.

20. Monitoring Equipment. All monitoring equipment items indicated in the EMP as presented in the
original project design were purchased with the exception of the electromagnetic intensity meter and the
atmospheric sampling car. The Borrower determined it was more cost-effective to outsource these
particular measurements.

Environmental Management Arrangements

21. The environmental specialists collect data, analyze the information and prepare quarterly reports. The
reports are submitted to the plant managers (the concerned chief engineer and deputy general manager) as
well as the YEPB. If the quality does not meet government standards, YEPB will ask for plan and
measures for improvement. If there is a special problem or concern, the plant manager will decide the
actions required.    If there is no problem, the plant management team discusses what will be the
environmental performance for next year during the annual meeting.




                                                    - 40 -

Additional Annex 9. Summary of the Resettlement Completion Report

1. Background

The project's Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) at appraisal covered land acquisition and compensation to
populations affected by construction of: the Yangzhou 1200-MW coal-fired power plant; the first phase of
the disposal site for the ash produced by the plant; and a 500-kV transmission line to carry power from the
plant to the grid of the Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Company (JPEPC). The appraisal conducted a
detailed baseline survey for the resettlement of populations affected by the construction of the main power
plant.  For the ash disposal site and the transmission line, the RAP contained estimations from the
Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant Project Office since the engineering designs for the transmission line were
to be prepared during project implementation. The Bank and the project office agreed that the office would
conduct detailed surveys and produce separate resettlement plans for these components following the
completion of detailed engineering designs. In addition, the project prepared a separate RAP for the
additional Yangcheng transmission line, which did not become part of the project until 1999.

2. Implementation Arrangements

For resettlement resulting from the power plant and the ash yard, JPEPC was to be responsible for overall
coordination. The Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant provided the funding and the Yangzhou Municipal
Government Haijiang County and Bali Township were responsible for detailed execution of the RAP. The
Yangzhou Power Bureau, in association with the local county and township governments were responsible
for the resettlement resulting from the 500-kV transmission line from the Yangzhou power station to the
Jiangsu Power Grid. For the additional 500-kV line from Yangcheng to Huaiyin, the Yangcheng Project
Preparation Office under JPEPC was responsible for overall coordination. The city electricity supply
bureaus and selected transmission companies were responsible for implementation.

3. Planned and Actual Scope of Resettlement

As indicated in Table A9.1, the overall resettlement impact of the original project components overall was
considerably less than anticipated in the RAPs.        As Table A9.1 indicates, 524 households required
resettlement, only about half of the estimate in the RAP. Correspondingly, there was a 30 percent decrease
in land acquisition and a 60 percent decrease in house removal, compared to the RAP. The number of
households resettled due to the power plant construction alone, amounted to 264, as estimated at appraisal.
The net decrease in affected persons for all the original project components resulted from refinements of
transmission line and ash site designs to minimize the resettlement impact. In contrast, the total households
resettled due to the construction of the Yangcheng-Huaiyin transmission line amounted to 316, more than
double the original estimate of 128. The higher impact of resettlement for this component was due to the
length of the transmission line (over 600 km), spanning several provinces and the difficulty in estimating
the impact.




                                                     - 41 -

                                                       Table A9.1
         Planned and Actual Scope of Resettlement for the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project
        Items                                    Thermal            500-kV         Ash Site            Total      Yangcheng
                                                Power Plant Transmission                                            500kV
                                                                 Component                                        Transmission
        Relocated Household RAP                     264              568              221              1053          128
                               Actual               264              235               26              524           316
                               Difference            0               -333            -195              -529          188
        Demolished Houses      RAP                22840             88223           27700            138763          25,446
        (m2)                   Actual             22840             26709            5894             55443         36,547
                               Difference            0             -61514          -21806             -83320        11,101
        Acquired Land          RAP                 1650               26             1007              2683          892
        Areas(mu)              Actual              1693               52              160             1,905          854
                               Difference           43                26             -847              -778           -38
        Affected People        RAP                  927              2657             907              4491          1264
                               Actual               927              816               78              1818          1750
                               Difference            0              -1841            -829             -2673          486
             Note: The land acquisition for the Ash Site does not include 5,740 mu of land areas e allocated from
             state- owned land


4. Compensation Policy by Project Component

Construction of the Power Plant and Ash Yard. The compensation rates for the Yangzhou Thermal
Power Plant and Ash Yard were set up first by following the Land Administration Law at the time. For
land compensation, it was set at 6 times of annual output value or Y3, 600 per mu, based on average
annual yield of the land for the past three years (Y600 per mu). For the resettlement subsidy, it was set at
10 times the value of annual output, at Y6, 000 per mu. Building compensation was a flat rate of Y600 per
square meter was set for both old house removal and new house construction.                            For non-residential
structures, the compensation was Y200 per square meter, for a cowshed it was Y100 per square meter.
Most of the 264 households affected by power plant construction (89 percent) were relocated to the nearby
Bali town center, where modern apartment housing blocks were built for their accommodation. In terms of
economic rehabilitation, non-farm employment was to be provided for those between 16 and 40; and a
living allowance of Y75 per month would be provided for those over 40 years old. About 11 percent of the
affected households were able to remain farmers in their villages. They received housing lots from the
village at no charge.      Due to their limited land loss, the compensation was a combination of land
readjustment within their village groups and cash compensation delivered to affected groups and
individuals.

Original Transmission Line Component. Since the detailed RAP was prepared later than the one for the
power plant, the compensation rates were higher. The combined compensation rates for both land and
resettlement expenses amounted to between Y14, 200 and Y24, 000, or between 1.5 and 2.5 times the
combined land and resettlement compensation rates for the power plant (Y9, 600). The compensation for
the building structures, ranging from Y120 to Y400 per square meter, was more than adequate for
providing them with replacement housing.

Yangcheng Transmission Line Component. Based on the successful resettlement experience for the
500-kV transmission component, similar compensation rates were adopted for Yangcheng Transmission
Component. Due to limited land acquisition, the economic rehabilitation strategy was mainly a land-based



                                                           - 42 -

one, with a combination of land re-adjustment within and a compensation fund delivered to affected village
groups.

5. Planned and Actual Cost of Resettlement

Table A9.2 summarizes resettlement expenses for the Project. For the original project components­the
power plant, 500-kV transmission line and ash site components, the actual resettlement cost was Y145
million, which was 16 percent less than the RAP estimate. Most of such cost saving was due to a 49
percent reduction in resettlement cost for the 500-kV transmission line and a 20 percent resettlement cost
reduction for the ash site component. The reduced scope of resettlement was the main cause of the
reduction in compensation, though compensation adjustments for the thermal power plant resettlement
resulted in slightly higher costs (1.7 percent) than in the RAP. However, if including additional support
from Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant Project Office and Yangzhou and Hanjiang Governments, the actual
resettlement cost for the power plant site would be even higher.

For the Yangcheng 500-kV transmission component, the resettlement cost estimate was Y86.49 million,
which included the cost of land acquisition, house removal, restoration of infrastructure, and various taxes
and fees. No comparable figure was available for the actual implementation. However, according to the
resettlement completion report, actual compensation to the affected population amounted to Y24.9 million,
which was 18 percent higher than that in the RAP (Y21 million). Therefore, the actual total resettlement
cost could be higher than that in the RAP, giving the increasing scope of resettlement for the component.

                Table A9.2: Resettlement Budget For Yangzhou Thermal Power Project

                             Components                    RAP          Actual      Difference
                Thermal Power Plant                        68.00        69.17          +1.7%
                500kV Transmission Line                    29.00        14.74         -49.1%
                Ash Site                                   76.00        61.08         -19.6%
                Total                                     173.00        144.99        -16.2%
                Yangcheng 500kV Transmission Line          86.49          n.a.



6. Impact of the Resettlement On Dwellings and Income of Affected Populations

Households Affected by the Construction of the Yangzhou Power Station. The households resettled in
the town center moved into new apartment housing built by the Bali township government, which was
considered a substantial improvement in dwellings. There were four different types of apartment units,
ranging from 65 square meters (2 bedrooms) to 85 square meters (3 bedrooms). Each apartment was
equipped with a separate kitchen, bathroom, and modern sanitation facilities.         However, despite the
improvement, the move required a change of living style compared to the rural area. In particular, it
eliminated the vegetable garden and areas for keeping farm animals. The lack of these rural facilities,
combined with the new gas cooking stove and flushing toilet, resulted in higher living costs. Higher
housing costs compared to compensation amounts, unforeseen lower interest rates on compensatory funds,
and adverse economic factors in the region further eroded the benefit structure of the move for the resettled
households. As a result it was necessary to adjust the resettlement benefits of those moving into the town
center.

Concerning the impact on income, according to a sample survey of 52 households, conducted in 2002, for
the resettlement completion report, both households that had resettled in the town center and those that had



                                                    - 43 -

remained in the villages had higher incomes than before the move. The survey also compared the resettled
households with 20 households in neighboring villages that had not been resettled. The results indicated
that the resettled households had a per capita income of Y3, 600 compared to Y3, 550 for neighboring
households that had not been resettled. Within the resettled group, the per capita income level in 2001 of
those resettled in the villages (Y3,682) was slightly higher than those who had moved to the town center
(Y3, 583). However, those who had moved to the town center had experienced a 109 percent increase in
their per capita income between 1993 and 2001, while the income of those resettled in villages had
increased by about 55 percent. The main reason was that, prior to resettlement, the per capita income of
the group resettled in the towns was much lower than that of the group resettled in the same village area.

Households Affected by Transmission Line Construction.                 The resettlement completion study
conducted a survey of 51 households affected by the construction of the Yangzhou transmission line,
collecting data on dwelling space and income. One average, the households increased their living space by
28 percent. The survey also reported that overall the per capita income of those affected increased by 21
percent from Y3, 300 in 1997 to Y4, 000 in 1999. For households affected by the Yangcheng transmission
line, a selected household sampling indicated that new houses were 94 percent larger than the former
houses. It also indicated that per capita income had increased by eight percent between 1998 and 2001.

7. Overall Performance and Key Factors Affecting Resettlement Implementation

Overall the resettlement was satisfactory, resulting in improved living conditions as defined at
appraisal­higher income levels, more spacious living spaces, and access to improved water and other
infrastructure. The RAP for the power plant could have benefited from greater consultation with the
affected populations concerning the move to the nearby town center from the farm areas and greater
consideration of the lifestyle impacts. In particular the resettlement completion report indicates that there
should have been more attention to the option of providing the households with funds to build their own
homes rather than moving to government-constructed housing.           The RAPs for the transmission line
components were less complex, involving no move from rural to urban areas.

There were two main factors that affected resettlement under the project. The first was refinement in the
designs of the original project's transmission line and ash yard components, which significantly reduced
overall resettlement impact and cost. The second was a change in the conditions that increased the cost of
resettlement relative to the compensatory amounts for those who moved to the town center as the result of
Yangzhou Thermal Power Plant construction. These conditions included: (a) higher housing costs and cost
of living expenses than originally estimated; (b) changes in the local economic situation that affected the
availability of jobs for those receiving employment as compensation; and (c) lower interest on pension fund
investments. At the insistence of the Bank, resettlement authorities addressed these factors by: (a)
increasing the monthly living allowance; (b) lowering the cost of new housing; (c) increasing the pension
fund amount; and (d) establishing a self-employment fund for qualified workers.

8. Lessons Learned

The full resettlement completion report cites the following key lessons learned, which reinforce those
derived from other Chinese power projects. These are the need to:

    (a) improve resettlement planning at project preparation stage to allow better assessment of
        compensation rates and rehabilitation measures, and the preparation of more accurate cost
        estimates;

    (b) carefully review proposed economic rehabilitation measures and to ensure proper economic


                                                   - 44 -

    rehabilitation options are selected after extensive consultation, and are appropriate for all types of
    affected people, particularly those vulnerable groups; and

(c) appraise proposed institutional arrangements for resettlement implementation to ensure adequate
    staff and supervision by the project owner, and adequate staff, training and resources for both
    internal and external resettlement monitoring and evaluation.




                                                - 45 -

- 46 -

