Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3718 CHA
Project Agreement
(Yangzhou Thermal Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY
Dated September 16, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3718 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JIANGSU PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER 
COMPANY (JPEPC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three hundred and fifty 
million dollars ($350,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that JPEPC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and JPEPC, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
onlent to JPEPC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS JPEPC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. JPEPC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. JPEPC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
Section 2.04. JPEPC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, JPEPC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) JPEPC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
JPEPC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by JPEPC of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. JPEPC shall, by December 31, 1994, engage management consultants 
to assist in the development and implementation of improved accounting and financial 
management information systems, in accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this 
Agreement and under terms of  reference agreed to by the Bank.
Section 2.07. JPEPC shall carry out the management development and training 
program, agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.08. JPEPC shall carry out the environmental management program, agreed 
to by the Borrower and the Bank, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.09. JPEPC shall carry out land acquisition and the resettlement and 
rehabilitation program, agreed to by the Borrower and the Bank, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of JPEPC
Section 3.01. JPEPC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
Page  3
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. JPEPC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. JPEPC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) JPEPC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
JPEPC shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, JPEPC shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of JPEPC 
shows that the projected internal cash generation of JPEPC for each fiscal year during 
the term of the debt to be incurred  shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt 
service requirements of JPEPC in such year on all its debt including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of JPEPC maturing by its 
terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation of JPEPC" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income, excluding receipts for 
consumer connection 
charges; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
provision of maintenance special fund, and 
sales and income taxes and 
payments in lieu of such taxes, 
Page  4
but excluding provision for 
depreciation, and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt, excluding capitalized interest during 
construction.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by JPEPC 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Bank and JPEPC accept as reasonable and as 
to which the Bank has notified 
JPEPC of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or 
may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results 
of 
JPEPC.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03.  (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, JPEPC shall from 
time to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the levels and structure of its electricity tariffs as 
determined by the Borrower) as shall be required to produce, for each of its fiscal 
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1994, net cash surplus equivalent 
to not less than 30 percent of its average annual investment program.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "net cash surplus" means total operating income minus the 
sum of: (A) 
cash operating expenses; and (B) financial obligations;
 
(ii)
The term "total operating income" means the sum of revenues from 
all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income;
 
(iii)
The term "cash operating expenses" means the sum of expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance and administration 
but excluding 
depreciation; and
 
(iv)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt 
(excluding interest during construction), repayment 
of loans (including 
sinking fund payments, if any), all 
taxes or payments in lieu of taxes; 
allocations to special 
funds and other cash distributions of surplus funds 
(including 
mandatory transfers to the Borrower), and any other cash outflows 
(other 
than capital expenditures) related to operations.
Section 4.04. JPEPC shall, by April 30 of each year commencing in 1995, prepare 
and furnish annually to the Bank for review, until completion of the Project, a 
rolling long-term financial plan (including projected income statements, sources and 
uses of funds and balance sheets covering a period of no less than eight years) and 
exchange views with the Bank on its financial position, focusing on comparison of 
actual financial performance with agreed targets, operating cost trend, future 
investment and related financing arrangements.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of JPEPC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify JPEPC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter 
specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to 
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For JPEPC:
20 (W) Beijing Road
Nanjing 210024
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
2382
34082 JPEPB CN
China
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of JPEPC, or by 
JPEPC on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
its General Manager or such other person or persons as its General Manager shall 
designate in writing, and JPEPC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  6
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL ELECTRIC POWER
   COMPANY
By /s/ Yang Jiechi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued or agreed to by the Bank, 
with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Except as provided in paragraphs 2 hereof, goods under Part A of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $6,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
Page  7
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the 
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.
Goods, under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than the equivalent 
of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Contracts for equipment under Part B of the Project shall be awarded after 
direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of 
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist JPEPC in carrying out the Project, JPEPC shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However, this 
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such 
contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, 
to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above.
