THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
500KV YANCHENG-HUAIYIN TRANSMISSION
PROJECT
RESETTLEMENT
ACTION PLAN
E- 13/
VoL.  /
JIANGSU PROVINCIAL POWER COMPANY
OCTOBER 1997



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. P    J E '' T BACK           __-1GROUND         -----------------------------1
2. PROJECT IMPACT    ------------------------------------------------------ 10
3. LEGAL FRAMEWORK   -------------------------------------------------- 14
4. COMPENSATION COST ESTIMATE AND BUDGET  ------------- 32
5. RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION IMPLEMENTATION
PLAN            --------------------------------------------------------------------- 38
6. INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION    ---------------------------------- 52
7. PARTICIPATION  AND CONSULTATION                       ------------------------- 60
8. GRIEVANCE AND APPEALS                        ---------------------------------- 63
9. MONITORING                 ----------------------------- ----------------------- 64
10. REPORTING               ------------------------------------------------------- 70
11. ENTITLEMENT MATRIX                  ------------------------------------------ 72



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1  Affected Villages
Annex 2   Social and Economic Information of Affected Counties
Annexc 3.1  Distribution of Permanent Land Acquisition
Annex 3.2  Social and Economic Information of Affected Villages
Annex 3.3  Social and Economic Situation of Affected Townships
Annex 3.4  Distribution of Affected Enterprises
Annex 4.1  Distribution of Affected Housing
Annex 4.2  Distribution of Attached Structures To Be Demolished
Annex 5    Distribution Of PAPs for House Acquisition
Annex 6    P-APs' Information Booklet
Annex 7    Outline of Monitoring on 500KV Yangcheng--Huaiyin
Transmission Project
Annex 8    Brief Introduction to Monitoring and Evaluation Institution
and Its Staff



ha: hectare         1 ha= 15 mu
M': square meter    1 mu = 667 MI
km: kilometer        1 kmr= 1000 M
RMB: Ren Min Bi   I $ = 8.2--8.3 RMB
SPC: The State Planning Commission
GPPDI: General Power Planning and Design Institute
PRO: Project Resettlement Office
PPRO: Provincial Project Resettlement Office
CLMB: County Land Management Bureau
RAP: Resettlement Action Plan
PAP: Project Affected Person
NRCR: National Research Centre for Resettlement



500KV Yancheng-Huaiyin Transmission Project
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
Definition of Resettlement Terminology
Definition of PAPs: In this RAP, PAPs are defined as those
persons whose incomes, living standards or entitlements are or
will be adversely affected by the project. PAPs include the
following categories:
(I)Persons who are affected by land acquisition, that is,
those persons whose land holdings are or will be decreasing
(2)Persons who are affected by house acquisition (including
due to the acquired land for relocation)
(3)Persons who are affected by public structure acquisition.
The definition of the PAPs is linked directly to the adverse effect
of the project, regardless of legal rights title or interest.



1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A) Brief Description of the Project and Its Main Purpose
Jiangsu Province is well developed in economy, and meanwhile,
the contradictions between power supply and demand in the region
become more acute. Shanxi Province is one of the major energy resource
bases of China whose coal reserves are plentiful. But its transportation
capacity is very limited. The project will transmit power from
Yangcheng Power Plant (Shanxi) to Jiangsu Province, instead of
transporting coal. This will make up for the power shortage in Jiangsu
Province, while actuating the development of coal resources in Shanxi
and easing off the pressure of coal transportation. The project will be
good for the development of both Jiangsu Province and Shanxi Province.
The length of the transmission line is 770.6KM. The route of the line
is from the substation of Yangcheng Power Plant in Shanxi Province to
Huaiyin substation in Jiangsu Province.
The project consists of the sub-projects as follows.
*  Three 500KV circuits from Yangcheng Power Plant to Dongming
Switch Station,
*  The Yellow River crossing,
* Two 500KV circuits from Dongming Switch Station to Sanpu
Switch Station,
*  A  500KV  circuit from  Sanpu Switch Station to Renzhuang
Substation
*  Two 500KV  circuits from  Sanpu Switch Station to Huaiyin
Substation,
* Two  500KV  switch stations (Dongming  Switch  Station  in
Shandong Province and Sanpu Switch Station in Xuzhou, Jiangsu
Province)
*  Two substations extension projects (Renzhuang Substation and
Huaiyin Substation). Renzhuang Substation has operated for years.
Huaiyin Substation is an auxiliary project of Yangzhou No.2 Power
Plant that is financed by World Bank.
There will be 2397 transmission towers in the project. The line is
planned to end at the entrance of Huaiyin Substation, via Yangcheng
I



County, Zezhou County in Shanxi Province, Xiuwu County, Huixian
County, Beizhan County of Xinxiang Municipality, Weihui County,
Yanjin County, Hua County, Changyuan County in Henan Province, the
Yellow River, Dongming County, Heze County, Dingtao County, Cao
County, Chengwu County, Shan County in Shandong Province, Xiao
County, Lingbi County in Anhui Province, Feng County, Tongshan
County, Suining County, Suyu County, Sihong County, Siyang County,
Huaiyin County, Qingpu County of Huaiyin Municipality, Huaian
County in Jiangsu Province.
The dynamic investment of the project is 5.02 billion RMB. The
project is planned to start in January 1998 and to be put into use in
February 2000.
B) Areas Affected and Served by the Project
When the project is put into operation and transmits power to
Jiangsu Province, it will ease the power shortage of Jiangsu Province.
After the completion of the project, it will lighten the transportation
pressure of coal so as to promote the development of coal resources and
the economy of Shanxi Province.
The project affects directly 27 villages of two counties(cities) in
Shanxi Province, 98 villages of seven counties(cities) in Henan Province,
142 villages of six counties(cities) in Shandong Province, 18 villages of
two counties(cities) in Anhui Province and 279 villages of nine
counties(cities) in Jiangsu Province. The administrative regions affected
by the project are listed in Annex 1.
C) Social and Economic Background of the Project Area
26 counties in five provinces involve in the project. By the end of
1996, the gross population of these 26 counties was 21.39 million and
the agriculture population was 18.38 million. The counties achieved an
industrial and agricultural output value of 129.79 billion RMB in 1996.
The industrial and agricultural output value per capita was 6713 RMB.
Six of these counties have achieved their industrial and agricultural
output value per capita over 10,000 RMB. These counties had 9.42653
million rural laborers and a gross cultivated land of 1802120.3ha. The
2



cultivated area per capita was 0.08ha, and in rural area it was 0.O9ha.
The cultivated land per rural laborer was 0.19ha. The net income one
farmer was 1876 RMB, and in 12 of these counties it was over 2,000
RMB. Socia1 and economic background of these counties is listed in
Annex 2.
Since launching of reform and opening policies ,the economy in
Jiangsu Province has been rapidly developed. The annual growth of
GDP (gross domestic product) and the industrial and agricultural output
value are kept in high growth. The high growth of economy raises a high
growth of electric requirement. Therefore, the project will serve this area
greatly.
D) Measures Taken to Minimize Resettlement
1) Minimize the Scope of Land Acquisition
The needed width of corridor of each circuit is 65M. The
transmission line with two or three two or circuits will affect seriously
the demolition scale and the environment nearby. In the preliminary
design period,  the project used long-distance double  circuits with
one tower so as to minimize the number of the acquired lands and the
demolished houses.
2) Minimize the Scope of Demolition and House Demolition Area
In order to minimize the demolition area as much as possible, in the
process of the final selection of the line, some changes have been made
on the sites of some towers to avoid some villages with large population
and some important structures. For example, the project avoided to
acquire the residence lands of the villagers in Xiaogou Village, Beiliu
Township, Yangcheng County and Zhongzhifang Village, Wuqiu
Township, Changhuan County, and also avoided to resettle the primary
school of Zhongzhifang Village. The towers are heightened to alleviate
impacts on the important infrastructures. These measures minimized the
demolition area. In final the demolition area of the project is reduced
from 83,823 square meters to 28,798 square meters.
3) Minimize the Impacts on Cultivated Lands
3



In the process of final selection of the line, some changes have
been made on the route of the line. Towers are placed in uncultivated
land as possible, avoiding orchards and some high output farm lands.
Some tower's are  self-supported towers. The project uses double
circuits with, one tower in 464.4KM long (60% of the whole length).
Although the cost of the project itself has risen great ly, it gains the
supports of the communities along the line.
E) Technical and Economic Feasibilitv Study
Some documents were issued approve the project. They are listed as
follows.
(I)  Document JNY( 1993) No.311  "Reply to the Proposal of
Yangcheng-Huaiyin Transmission Project " issued by The State
Planning Co6nmission(SPC);
(2) Document DDG( 1997) No.481  "Reply to the Preliminary
Design of 500KV Yangcheng--Huaiyin Transmission Project " issued
by The Ministry of Power;
(3) Docunent DDG(1997) No.520 "Reply to the Preliminary Design
of Dongmig Switch Station and Sanpu Switch Station Construction
Sub-project of Yangcheng-Huaiyin Transmission Project" issued by the
Ministry of ower;
(4) Docdment DDG(1997) No.350  "Reply to the Preliminary
Design of SOOKV Huaiyin Substation (Jiangsu) Extension Project"
issued by Th Ministry of Power.
F) The Design of the Project
Docuhient No. 1213  "Report of the Designing Tasks of 500KV
Yangcheng- Huaiyin Transmission Project" issued by Jiangsu
Provincial Power Bureau in 1994, commits East China Electric Power
Designing Ihstitute(ECEPDI), which belongs to the Ministry of Power,
to the over-Al designing work of the project. Shanxi Provincial Electric
Power Design Institute(SXEPDI), Henan Provincial Electric Power
Design Instiute(HINEPDI), Shandong Provincial Electric Power Design
Institute(SDEPDI) and Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Design
Institute(JSEPDI) take the detail designing work of the project.
4



The report of "The Optimal Design of Yangcheng--Huaiyin
Transmission Project " passed the appraisal organized by General Power
Planning and Design Institute (GPPDI) of the Ministry of Power in
August, 1994.
The institutes above made the preliminary exploration of the route
and collected information on geo-hydrologic conditions in August 1995.
They also consulted with the local governments and concerned
departments along the line.
Planning Bureaus of the counties, municipalities and provinces
along the line had all agreed the route of the transmission line bv Dec.,
1995.
In December 1996, ECEPDI posted the report of "The Preliminary
Design of 500KV Yangcheng--Huaiyin Transmission Project".
From March to May 1997, ECEPDI laid out the route of the line
and did surveys on the acquisition loss in kind. Some changes had been
made on the route.
The report of "The Preliminary Design of Yangchena--Huaiyin
Transmission Project" and the general estimate report of the project
passed the appraisal organized by the Ministry of Power in August,
1997.
G) The Ownership and Organizations
Yangcheng Power Plant (Shanxi) Transmission Project got a loan
of 76% of the gross investment from National Development Bank of
China and China Construction Bank. Jiangsu Provincial Power
Company. and Jiangsu Provincial Energy and Transportation Investment
Corp. have respectively invested 4% and 20% of the project. National
Power Communication and Dispatch Center will take charge of
management after the project is put into use. Jiangsu Provincial Power
Company. is the temporary project owner. It is in charge of the
construction, implementation, principal repayment and interests
payment.



The Project Preparatory Office for Yangcheng--Huaiyin
Transmission Project (PPO), who belongs to Jiangsu Provincial Power
Company, takes the responsibility of the project construction. It sets up
Engineering Department and Resettlement Office(RO), which are
responsible for the leading of the construction and the resettlement in
land acquisition.
H) The Census(Social-economical Survey)
1) Schedule and Institutions
The census was carried out in two steps: Firstly, the base-line
investigations for the land and house acquisition in the project area were
carried out from August, 1995 to October, 1995 and from March, 1997
to May, 1997 separately, by the staffs from East-China Electric Power
Design Institute(ECEPDI), SXEPDI, HNEPDI, SDEPDI, JSEPDI, PPO,
the relevant counties and townships and some villagers along the line.
The tasks included the census to the acquisition house, various kinds of
auxiliary facilities, trees along the line.
Secondly, social survey from August to September 1997 was
organized by the Project Resettlement Office(PRO), together with
Xuzhou Municipal Power Bureau, Tongshan County Power Supply
Bureau, Huaiyin Municipal Power Supply Bureau, and relevant
townships along the line. The survey included the investigation on
social-economic conditions, and wiliness of PAPs, etc. The PRO and
National Research Centre for Resettlement (NRCR) collected and
analyzed the survey data..
2) Survey Methodology
As for the census of the houses and auxiliary facilities
measurement on site and register should be carried out household by
household according to the layout and section defined by the five
electric power design institutes (ECEPDI, SXEPDI, HNEPDI, SDEPDI
and JSEPDI).
6



Land acquisition investigation is measuring on site and registering
according to the location plan and the civil works drawings for the
project by the five design institutes. Huaiyin Substation Extension Work
and Renzhuang Substation Extension Work do not need any land
acquisition. Huaiyin Substation whose Land acquisition has finished is
an auxiliary project of Yangzhou No.2 Power Plant Project.
I) Preparation of the Resettlement Action Plan(RAP)
The PRO took charge of the preparation of RAP. Land
management department of the relevant counties and municipalities
participated the preparation. NRCR is responsible of the consultation of
RAP. The RAP was completed by PRO, and has passed the review of
the Project Resettlement Leading group.
The NRCR will take charge of the independent monitoring and
evaluation for the project.
J) Schedule for Resettlement Implementation
The PRO and the construction departments will sign the contracts
"Agreement on House and Land Acquisition for 500KV Yangcheng--
Huaiyin Transmission Project" with land management bureaux of the
relevant counties and townships separately. It is foreseen that the
implementation period is from January 1998 to June 1999. Huaiyin
Substation Extension Project is located in the area of the substation
itself. Huaivin Substation, as an auxiliary project of Yangzhou No.2
Power Plant, has finished its land acquisition (no house acquisition) in
August 1997, and started to be constructed in August 1997.
K) Permission for Land Use, Resettlement and Construction
The land acquisition procedure is as follows: (1). The five electric
power design institutes submit the defined range and area of acquisition
land; (2). The project contractors apply to local planning department for
permission, of planning land use certification and certification for
construction land use; (3). Consulting with the land owner about the
land acquisition and compensation;(4). Land use formalities in local
7



land management department; (5). The project acquires the land and
signs the land acquisition contract. The contracts are signed by the
project resettlement office. together with the local land management
bureaux,(6).The project gets the land ownership.
The resettlement and construction procedures are as follows: (1).
The five electric power design institutes submit the location of affected
and acquired house; (2). The PRO, the five electric power design
institutes , and relevant counties(cities), townships investigate the
quantity and quality of the houses. (3) The PRO discusses with the
representatives of resettlers about the compensation standard for
acquisition house and auxiliary facilities; (4). The PRO, together with
the ROs of relevant counties and municipalities, signs the house
acquisition contracts; (5). ROs of relevant counties and municipalities
signs the house acquisition contracts with relevant townships; (6). The
townships signs the house acquisition contracts with PAPs, and the
PAPs get the compensation fund;(7).The PAPs build their houses; (8).
The PAPs move into new houses and demolish the old houses.
L) Decree on Rates of Compensation
1) Land Mfanagement Law of People 's Republic of China
2) Implementation Regulations for Land Management Law of
People's Reputblic of China
3) Implementation Regulations for Land Management Law in
Jiangsu Province
4) Implementation Regulations for Land Management Law in
Shanxi Province
5) Implementation Regulations for Land Management Law in
Henan Province
6) Implementation Regulations for Land Management Law of
People 's Republic of China in Shandong Province
8



7) Temporary Regulations for Collection and Usage of
Compensation Fee for Forest Land Acquisition in Shanxi Province
8) Regullations for Collection and iVanagement of Recover Fee for
Forest and Grass Land in Shanxi Province
9) Compensation Rates for Attached Structuires on Land Acquired
by State Construction in Henan Province
10) Implementation Regulations for Forest Law of People 's
Republic of China in Jiangsu Province
11) Jiaozuo Mufitnicipal Government Document JZB(1994) No. 51
"Compensation Rates for Attached Struictures on Land Acquired bv
National Construction in Jiaozuo Municipalityv
12) XinxiangMunicipal Government Document XZW(]993)
No.229 - Compensation Rates for Attached Structures on Land Acquired
by National Construction in Xinxiang Municipality"
1 3)Document HXF(1989) No.7  "Temporary Regulations for
Land Acquisition Approval in Heze Municipality"
14) Suqian Municipal Government Document SZF(1996) No.47
"Regulations for Land Acquisition Approval in Suqian Mdunicipal "
15) Dongming County Document DZF(1993) No.47 "Regulations
for Land Acquisition approval in Dongming County"
16) Huixian City HZ(1992) No.158 " 'Five Uniform Regulations'
on Land Acquisition"
17) Weihui City WZ(1993) No.58"    'Five Uniform
Regulations ' on Land Acquisition"
9



2. PROJECT IMPACT
A) Land Acquisition
Table 2.1      Summarv of Land Acquisition
Categorv                                      Unit    Quantity
A                                             B       C
I   Total land acquisition for the project                    ha       59.5
2   Permanent land acquisition                                 ha      59.5
Land acquisition for Dongming Switch Station                 ha      7.2
4   Land acquisition for Sanpu Switch Station                  ha      9.0
5   Land acquisition for Huaivin Substation Extension Work     ha      0
6   Land acquisition for Renzhuang Substation Extension Work   ha      0
7   Land acquisition for the tower foundation                  ha      43.3
8   Total number of residence bases affected by land acquisition  ha   2.47
9   Total number of households affected by acquisition houses  HH       128
10  Total number of the project affected villages                      558
11  Total number of laborers affected by land acquisition              253
12  Arable land acquired for the project accounting for percentage   %  0.073
of the total arable land of affected villages
13  Range of average arable land(per person) in affected townships  ha per  0.102
{__________________________________________________________   capital  _______aia
14  Range  of average arable land(per laborer) in affected    ha per  0.209
townships                                                 capital  _
1 5  No. of villages where land laborer ratio falls below township     35
level
1 6  No. of villages where land readjustment is not possible due to    0
the limit of land endowment
Notes: (1). All the acquired land for residence bases and structure foundation can be
reclaimed. and cultivated by the base owner. The costs for the reclaim are listed in
the land acquisition costs of the project.
(2). Former land acquisition for Huaiyin Substation is 8.96ha, and there was
no house acquisition. The expanding project is based on the forner scale and it
does not need any land acquisition.
(3). The Renzhuang Substation Extension Work is located in the former
substation and needs no land acquisition.
See Annex 3 for detailed information.
10



B) Affected Structures
Table 2.2    Summary of Affected Structures
Structures and Categories  Number    Number of           Area(m)
(Households)    PAPs                 .-
House      Land area
A                 B             C          D            E
I    Private houses to be    128           538        11295        10713
affected
2     Private houses to be    128          538        11295        10713
relocated
3   Public structures to be   0             0         14151        14030
affected                                               _
4    Number of Houses
(Households affected due
to other reasons-such as   0            0           0            0
environment impact)
Note: Public structures include offices of villages and groups. bams.
See Annex 4 for the detailed of affected structures.
C) Affected Enterprises and Infrastructure
There are sixteen enterprises affected by the project (See Table 2.3).
They are all private or village-owned and in small size. Ten of them
have stopped producing because of deficiency and no sale for one year
or half a year. The project can only compensate their structures and
some relevant facilities. The other six enterprises(There are 47 part-time
workers in total) are engaged in exploring of stone and coal. The project
only affects their structures (The structures have to be moved.), but does
not affect their production areas. It means that the normal production
and running activities will not be affected by the project, and the
workers will not lose their jobs because of the project. There is little
equipment in these enterprises, and the equipment can be moved to other
places. Moreover, their foundation area will be reclaimed and cultivated
by the villagers themselves.
Affected infrastructures are listed in Table 2.4.
11



Table 2.3      Distribution of Affected Enterprises
Categories of Enterprises  Number Number of Number of PAPs. Foundation Total Land
of Units Employees incl uding       Area(ha)   Area(ha)
affected laborers
I Total Units to Be Affected  16               0                0.45       1.6
Private Enterprises   5                    0               0.21       0.91
Village Enterprises   I1       4           0               0.24       0.69
Township Enterprises     0        43         0                0          O0
2 Land Acquisition for the   6                  0               0.07(Uncult 0.08(Uncult
_ Relocation of the Above                                      ivated land) ivated land)
3 Secondarv PAPs due to    0                    0               0          0
Land Acquisition for
Relocation
4 Enterprises to Be Partiallv  0                0               0           0
Affected
See table 5.2 for the details.
Table 2.4      Summary of Affected Infrastructure
|   Affected Infrastructire     Quantity                      Unit
1I  1kv Power                   5km          Yangcheng County Power Supply Bureau
2   1 l0kvPower line             2.5km         Zezhou County Power Supply Bureau
3   Grade 2 Communication Line  12km        Beiliu Township. Yangcheng County. Shanxi
I___I____                  Province
4   Grade 3 communication Line   7km        Beiliu Township. Yangcheng Countv. Shanxi
l ____________________________ l________                Province
5   Receiving Apparatus for      I            Daqi Township. Zezhou Countv, Shanxi
Satellite Signal                                        Province
6   10kv Power line              5 pieces       Shan County Power Supply Bureau
7 1380v Power line              I pieces      Tongshan County Power Supply Bureau
8   Communication Line           I piece      Tongshan County Power Supply Bureau
9   l0kvPower line               2km          Tongshan County Power Supply Bureau
10 35kvPower line               2km           Tongshan County Power Supply Bureau
II  l0kvPower line              6km            Suining County Power Supply Bureau
12 35kvPower line               6km            Sihong County Power Supply Bureau
D) Temporary Land Acquisition in the Construction of the Project
Temporary land acquisition depends on the construction condition
of the project. The land is used to pile the materials. In order to
minimize the impact to arable land, the construction period will be as
short as possible. Thus, the construction will only impact one season
of green rice, which can be planted near after the construction. The
12



corresponding compensation is inside the total cost of the project (not
including the resettlement and rehabilitation cost).
E) Temporarv Land Acquisition in Operation of the Project
In the operation of the project, if temporary land acquisition occur
sometimes  because  of  the  maintain   of  the  transmission   line,
compensation rates for this are same as the relevant compensation rates
in the RAP.
F) Affected Population
Table 2.4    Summarv of Affected Population
Tvpe of Effect                      Quantitv of PAPs
A                                                         B
1   Total PAPs affected bv land acquisition                        526
2   Affected by Acquisition of Agricultural Land                   526
3   Private Housinp                                                538
4   No. of laborers who will lose more than 7% of their agriculture  0
land to land acquisition(LA)                    _
5   No. of laborers who will lose less than 7% but more than 0.08%  54
of their agriculture land to land acquisition(LA)
6   No. of laborers who will lose less than 0.08% of their agriculture  199
_-  land to land acquisition(LA)
See Annex 5 for further details.
G) Impact on Vulnerable Groups
Based on our survey, among the 128 households of house
acquisition, there are no women headed households, ethnic minorities
families and old PAPs living alone. Laborers are not in short in house
demolition and building, and the households do not need special care. In
the implementation of RAP, if vulnerable groups occur, their relocation
will be under the charge of the relevant village.
13



3. LEGAL FRAMEWORK
A) Policy
Laws and policies on land acquisition and resettlement can be
divided into three levels:
1)National laws and regulations issued by the Central
Government
* The State Land Law of People's Republic of China (passed in
June 1981 by the 16th session the standing committee of the 6th
National People's Congress(NPC), and revised in December 1988 by
the 5th session the standing committee of the 7th NPC)
* Implementation Regulations of The State Land Law of People's
Republic of China (No. 73 order of State Council of P.R.China)
2)Provincial regulations issued by provincial government
* Implementation Regulations of Land Law of Jiangsu Province
(passed on June 26, 1987 by the 26th session the standing committee of
the 6th Jiangsu Provincial People's Congress, and revised on June 30,
1989 by the 9th session the standing committee of the 7th Jiangsu
Provincial People's Congress)
3 Implementation Regulations for Land Management Law in
Shanxi Province (passed on Jan. 11, 1987 by the 26th session the
standing commrttee of the 6th Shanxi Provincial People's Congress)
* Implementation Regulations for Land Management Law in Henan
Province(passed on Sep. 18, 1987 by the 30th session the standing
committee of the 6th Henan Provincial People's Congress)
* Implementation Regulations for Land Management Law of
People's Republic of China in Shandong Province (passed on Feb. 15,
14



1987 by the 24th session the standing committee of the 6th Shandong
Provincial People's Congress)
Shandong Province Document JJ(1997) I        Ieflipor;ry
Regulations for Collection and Usage of Compensation Fee for Forest
Land Acquisition in Shanxi Province" (issued on July 17, 1994 by
Shanxi Province Price Bureau, Shanxi Province Forestry Bureau and
Shanxi Province Finance Bureau)
* Document No.12  "Regulations for Collection and Management
of Recover Fee for Forest and Grass Land in Shanxi Province " issued
by Shandong Province Price Bureau and Shandong Province Finance
Bureau on Feb. 4, 1993
* Henan Province Government Document YZW( 1989) No. 113
"Compensation Rates for Auxiliary Buildings on Land Acquired by
National Construction in Henan Province " (issued on Sep. 5, 1989)
Jlnplementation Regulation for Forest Law of People's Republic
of China in Jiangsu Province (passed on Oct. 27, 1992 by the 30th
session the standing committee of the 7th Jiangsu Provincial People's
Congress)
3) Municipal and county regulations for some special projects
* Jiaozuo Municipal Government Document JZB(1994) No.51
"Compensation Rates for Attached Structures on Land Acquired by
National Construction in Jiaozuo Municipality"
* Xinxiang Municipal Government Document XZW(1993) No.229
"Compensation Rates for Auxiliary Structures on Land Acquired by
State Constrluction in Xinxiang Municipality "
IDocument HXF(1989) No.7 "Temporary Regulations for Land
Acquisition Approval in Heze Municipality"
* Suqian City Document SZF(1996) No.47  "Regulations for
Land Acquisition Approval in Suqian City"
15



* Dongming County Document DZF(1993) No.47 "Regulations
for Land Acquisition Approval in Dongming County"
* Huixian City Document HZ(1992) No.158   ' 'Five Uniform
Regulations ' on Land Acquisition"
* Weihui City Document WZ(1993) No.58  "'Five Uniform
Regulations ' on Land Acquisition"
The RAP is prepared in accordance with the laws and regulations
listed below and the World Bank Guidelines on Involuntary
Resettlement (OD 4.30). The implementation of the RAP will be
carried out in accordance with this legal framework.
B) Contents of the regulations
1) National Laws and Regulation
Major provisions of Land Law are as follows:
Ownership
(D The ownership of all land inside cities is vested in the state, the
ownership of the land in countryside and city suburb is vested in the
collectives except for vested in the state based on special laws or
regulations. Residence bases are vested in the collectives.
(2 Collective land is managed and operated by village councils.
(  County governments register collective lands and issue
certificates of ownership.
( Any change in ownership or the right to use land must be
officially recorded and a new certificate issued.
0 Once acquired for a state project, collective land becomes state
land.
Land Use
16



(DThe law permits transfer of right of use of both state and
collectively-owned lands. Contracting of both state and collective lands
to collective units and individuals is permitted and contracts meeting the
procedural requirements are protected by law.
(Conversion of cultivated land exceeding 3 mu into non-
agricultural use must be authorized by governments above the county
level.
Land for State Construction
(DApproval Procedures
Project units must apply to local land management departments
above county governments level with Design Task Document or other
approval documents approved by direction departments of State Council
or local government above county level based on approval procedure for
state construction. After the review and approved by local government
above county level, the land management department can allocate the
land.
(ZAuthority for Approval:
County governments can approve acquisition of cultivated land
below 3 mu and other types of land below 10 mu.
Provincial congresses determine the limits of the authority of
prefecture and municipal governments for land acquisition.
(3)The project must compensate the affected units or persons for
loss of land, resettlement, attached structures, and standing crops.
(OFormulas to calculate the amounts of compensation are specified:
* Compensation fee for cultivated land
The compensation fee for cultivated land should be 3-6 times the
average annual production value per mu during the three years prior to
acquisition.
Provincial and municipal governments should determine the rate
of compensation for standing crops and attached structures.
Compensation fee for other types land acquisition may be
determined by provincial and municipal governments refer to the
compensation rates of cultivated land acquisition.
* Resettlement grant
Based on the number of agriculture population to be resettled,
the regulations stipulate payment of a resettlement grant. The amount of
17



the resettlement grant is to be determined on a per capita basis and
should be 2-3 times the average output value per mu during three years
prior to land acquisition. The formula for calculating the number of the
agricultural population to be resettled is to divide the area of the
acquired cultivated land by the average per capita land holding of the
unit prior to the land acquisition.
Should the resettlement grant prove inadequate to maintain the
previous living standards of the people, provincial and municipal
governments can increase the amount of the resettlement grant. But the
combined amount of compensation for land and resettlement grant
should not exceed 20 times the average annual production value per mu
during the previous three years.
Compensation fee for other types land acquisition may be
determined by provincial and municipal governments refer to the
compensation rates of cultivated land acquisition.
Temporary land acquisition should be compensated according to
the average annual production value per mu during the three years prior
to acquisition.
(DLand for Rural Residence
Land for rural residence should be the original residence bases or the
spare land. Use of cultivated land for residence must be approved by
village councils, township governments, and county governments. The
quantity should not exceed the limits regulated by provincial and
municipal governments.
2) Provincial Regulations issued by provincial governments
a) Implementation Regulations of Land Law of Jiangsu Province
Land for State Construction
The project must compensate the affected units or persons for loss
of land, resettlement, attached structures, and standing crops. The
formulas to calculate the amounts of compensation are specified:
(D The compensation fee for Loss of Land
The compensation fee for cultivated land and vegetable land
should be 6 times the average annual production value per mu during
the three years prior to acquisition based on the state price policies.
18



() The compensation fee for Standing Crops and Attached
Structures
The compensation fee for Standing Crops is calculated based on
the out put value of one season of crops.
3 The Amount for Resettlement Grants
The amount of the resettlement grant is to be determined on a per
capita basis. For the townships with the average per capita land holding
prior to the land acquisition above 1 mu, the payment should be 3 times
the average output value per mu during three years prior to land
acquisition. For the townships with the average per capita land holding
prior to the land acquisition below 1 mu, the payment should be
calculated from 4 times( and one time more as the drop of every 0.1 mu
of the average per capita land holding prior to the land acquisition, but
should not exceed 10 times) the average output value per mu during
three years prior to land acquisition.
Should the resettlement grant prove inadequate to maintain the
previous living standards of the people, provincial governments can
increase the amount of the resettlement grant. But the combined amount
of compensation for land and resettlement grant should not exceed 20
times the average annual production value per mu during the previous
three years.
Land for Rural Residence
The land for rural residence includes the land for house, attached
structures, yard, grass and trees ahead or behind the house.
In order to save land, buildings are strongly recommended.  The
calculation formulas are on the household basis according to the actual
average per capita land holding:
(D For the-villages with the average per capita land holding below I
mu, the average per capita residence land holding should be less than
0.2 mu. The residence land is 130 square meter for one household of not
more than 4 mrnembers, and with 25 square meter more as every member-
increasing in the household of more than 4 members.
(Z For the villages with the average per capita land holding above 1
mu, the residence land is 130 square meter for one household of not
more than 4 members, and with 30 square meter more as every member-
increasing in tie household of more than 4 members.
19



b) Implementation Regulations of Land Law of Shandong
Province
Land for State Construction
The compensation fee for the urban area of provincial
municipalities and cultivated land belongs to county-level cities should
be 5 - 6 times the average annual production value per mu during the
three years prior to acquisition.
The compensation fee for cultivated land belongs to county-level
cities should be 4 - 5 times the average annual production value per mu
during the three years prior to acquisition.
The compensation fee for other types' land should be 2 - 3 times
the annual production value per mu.
The compensation fee for residence land should be in accordance
with the compensation standard of neighboring cultivated land.
The compensation fee for standing crops is calculated based on the
output value of one season of crops.
Trees on the acquired land should be planted to other places as
possible and the plant fee should be paid. If the trees can not be planted,
compensation fee should be paid.
The Amount for Resettlement Grants
The amount of the resettlement grant for cultivated land and
residence land acquisition is to be determined on a per capita basis. For
each agricultural person who is needed to be resettled, the payment
should be 3 times the average annual output value per mu during three
years prior to land acquisition. But the amount of the resettlement grant
per mu should not exceed 10 times the average annual output value per
mu during three years prior to land acquisition.
The amount of the. resettlement grant for other types' land is 2 times
the annual output value per mu.
Land for Rural Residence
On the shirts of cities or in towns, the average per capita residence
20



land holding should be 0.2 - 0.25 mu.
In villages on plain area, the average per capita residence land
holding should be 0.2 - 0.3 mu.
In villages in hilly country, if their sites are on flatlands, the
average per capita residence land holding should be 0.2 mu. If their sites
are on hills, the average per capita residence land holding should be less
than 0.4 mu at most.
For the villages with the average per capita land holding below I
mu, the average per capita residence land holding can be lower than the
standard above.
c) Implementation Regulations of Land Law of Shanxi Province
Land for State Construction
The compensation fee for cultivated land in Taiyuan, Datong,
Yangquan, Changzhi, Jincheng, Xinzhou, Yuci, Linfen, Houma,
Yuncheng Municipality, should be 5 - 6 times the average annual
production value per mu during the three years prior to acquisition.
The compensation fee for cultivated land outside the municipalities
above, should be 4 - 5 times the average annual production value per
mu during the three years prior to acquisition.
The compensation fee for residence land, spare land and
uncultivated land should be 2 times the average annual production value
of cultivated land in the village during the three years prior to
acquisition.
The Amount for Resettlement Grants
The amount of the resettlement grant is to be determined on a per
capita basis. For the townships and villages with the average per capita
land holding prior to the land acquisition above 1 mu, the payment
should be 3 times the average output value per mu during three years
prior to land acquisition. For the townships and villages with the
average per capita land holding prior to the land acquisition below 1 mu,
the payment should be calculated from 4 times( and one time more as
the drop of every 0.1 mu of the average per capita land holding prior to
2'



the land acquisition, but should not exceed 10 times) the average output
value per mu during three years prior to land acquisition.
The amount of the resettlement grant for collective forest should
be 2 times the annual output value per mu.
The amount of the resettlement grant will not be paid for residence
land, spare land and collective uncultivated land.
The compensation fee for standing crops is calculated based on the
local output value.
The compensation fee for attached structures on acquired cultivated
land should be paid by construction department.
Land compensation fee, the amount of the resettlement grant and
the compensation fee for collective attached structures, are owned to
acquired land departments. The fund will be saved in bank. Acquired
land departments should post their resettlement plans and fund using
plans. These plans should be approved by county governments.
d) Implementation Regulations of Land Law of Henan Province
Compensation for Land Acquisition
The compensation fee for cultivated land should be 6 times the
annual production value per mu.
The compensation fee for by-products of plants in cultivated land,
should be 15 - 20% of annual main product output value per mu.
The amount of the resettlement grant is to be determined on a per
capita basis. For the townships and villages with the average per capita
land holding prior to the land acquisition above I mu, the payment
should be 3 times the annual output value per mu.
For the townships and villages with the average per capita land
holding prior to the land acquisition between 0.7 mu and 1 mu, the
payment should be 4 times the annual output value per mu.
For the townships and villages with the average per capita land
holding prior to the land acquisition between 0.5 mu and 0.7 mu, the
payment should be 5 times the annual output value per mu.
For the townships and villages with the average per capita land
holding prior to the land acquisition between 0.3 mu and 0.5 mu, the
payment should be 7 times the annual output value per mu.
For the townships and villages with the average per capita land
22



holding prior to the land acquisition below 0.3 mu, the payment should
be 10 times the annual output value per mu.
3) Municinal and county regulations
Main contents related to the project are listed below:
Jincheng municipality: Detailed compensation rates for attached
structures, standing crops and residence land have been regulated.
Jiaozuo Municipalitv: Detailed compensation rates for attached
structures have been regulated.
Xinxiang Municipalitv:  It regulated compensation rates for
attached structures on acquired land for state construction.
Heze Municipalitv:
oLand compensation:
(DThe annual production value of grain crop field in the planning
areas of municipalities and county cities, is calculated as 500 - 1000
RMB per mu. The annual production value of industrial crop field in
these areas is calculated as 700 - 1200 RMB per mu.
The annual production value of grain crop field in rural areas is
calculated as 400 - 900 RMB per mu. The annual production value of
industrial crop field in these areas is calculated as 500 - 1000 RMB per
mu.
The annual production value of orchards is calculated as 1500 -
3000 RMB per mu.
(The compensation fee for land acquisition is 4 times the
annual production value per mu.
0The compensation fee for residence land is in accordance with
the compensation fee for cultivated land.
*The amount of resettlement grant:
23



If the average per capita land holding prior to the land
acquisition are above 2 mu (not including 2 mu), the payment should be
2 times the annual output value per mu. If they are between I mu and 2
mu (not including I mu), the payment should be 3 times the annual
output value per mu. If they are between 0.5 mu and 1 mu (not including
0.5 mu), the payment should be 6 times the annual output value per mu.
If they are below 0.3 mu, the payment should be 10 - 14 times the
annual output value per mu.
Dongming Countv:
* The annual output value per mu of acquired land:
The annual output value of grain crop field, is calculated as
400 - 800 RMB per mu, and should not exceed 900 RMB per mu. The
annual production value of industrial crop field is calculated as 600 -
1000 RMB per mu, and should not exceed 1200 RMB per mu.
The annual production value of orchards is calculated as 800 - 3000
RMB per mu, and should not exceed 4500 RMB per mu.
3 Compensation fee for land acquisition:
The compensation fee for cultivated land is 5 times the annual
production value per mu. The compensation fee for other types' land is 4
times the annual production value per mu. The compensation fee for
residence land is same as for cultivated land.
T The amount of resettlement grant:
If the average per capita land holding prior to the land
acquisition is above 2.5 mu (not including 2 mu), the payment should be
2 times the annual output value per mu. If it is between 1 mu and 2 mu
(not including 1 mu), the payment should be 3 times the annual output
value per mu. If it is between 0.5 mu and 1 mu (not including 0.5 mu),
the payment should be 6 times the annual output value per mu. If it is
below 0.3 mu, the' payment should be 10 - 14 times the annual output
value per mu.
Dongming County Government also regulates detail compensation
rates for attached structures on acquired land.
Huaivin Municipality:
24



* Compensation fee on land acquisition:
The compensation fee for cultivated land is 6 times the annual
production value per mu. The annual production value per mu of paddy
field is 1200   1600 RMB, the annual production value of dry field is
900 - 1200 RMB.
* The amount of resettlement grant:
If the average per capita land holding prior to the land
acquisition is above I mu , the payment should be 3 times the annual
output value per mu. If it is below 1 mu, the payment should be 10 - 14
times the annual output value per mu. If it is below 0.5 mu (including
0.5 mu), the project should arrange for a labor and pay 5000 RMB.
Huaiyin Municipal Govemment also regulates detail
compensation rates for attached structures and standing crops.
Suqian Citv: Suqian City was administered by Huaiyin
Municipality before May, 1996. Regulations for land acquisition in
Suqian City are almost same as they are in Huaiyin Municipality.
Other counties (cities):
They have regulated detail compensation rates for standing crops
and attached structures, and have given detail explanations on
compensation rates for land acquisition and the amount of resettlement
grant. All these compensation rates are in accordance with the
regulations made by the central and provincial governments.
C) Compensation Rates
1) Compensation Rates Principles
* The compensation fee for land loss and resettlement should be
based on State Land Law, Implementation Regulations for Land Law
made by provincial governments and regulations made by related
municipalities and counties.
* Compensation for all assets is equivalent to the replacement cost
of the asset. Depreciation is not considered.
* Compensation payments are made before the acquisition of land
and assets.
25



* Resettlement fees are paid before the PAPs build their new
houses.
* The compensation rates are discussed among the ROs of the
project and the representatives of PAPs.
2) Compensation Rates
Based on the above principles, from March to May, 1997, the PRO
and the land management departments of relevant municipalities and
counties submitted the preliminary compensation rates after consulting
with the townships, villages, and representatives of Paps. In August
1997, General Power Planning and Design Institute (GPPDI) of the
Ministry of Power organized the decision meeting. The representatives
from GPPDI, ECEPDI, SXEPDI, HNEPDI, SDEPDI, JSEPDI and
relevant provincial and municipal governments attended the meeting.
The meeting confirmed the compensation rates for this project.
The compensation rates are higher than local compensation rates,
while they meet the demand of the local regulations.
See Table 3. 1, Table 3.2, table 3.3, for detailed information.
26



Table 3.1      Compensation Rates for Houses and Attached Structures
Type   1            Items               Compensation   |          Notes
Rates
Building I                  400 RMB/ M2
Buildinu 11                 360 RMB/ M2
Building III                320 RMB/ M2        not including the cost of
Single-story House I         290 RMB/ M-        getting water, power, road
House   Single-storv House II        260 RMB/ M2        of the new houses, and of
Single-story House 111      230 RMB/ M-        leveling the field
Simple Structures            120 RMB/ M-
Pigsty                      200 RMB each
Walls                       20 RMB/ M2
Attached  Outdoor Cement Ground        20 RMB/ M2
Structures Stove                       100 RMB
Well                        800 RMB
Manure Pit                   100 RMB
Toilet                       200 RMB
Fruit Tree                  300 RMB
Big Tree                    60 RMB
Small Tree                  30 RMB
Water Pit                   50 RMB
Structure   for    Vegetable 50 RMB/ M-
_Grow-th
Removal Compensation                    300 RMB/HH
Reciaim Fee of Forner Residence Base     1000 RMB/HH
New Residence Base Tax                  2000 RMB/HH
Cost of Getting water. power. road of the 30 RMB/M2
new houses. and of leveling the field  _    _
27



Table 3.2      Compensation Rates and Indemnitee of Acquired Land for
Switch Stations and Substation
Compensation Items         Compensation Rates                Indemnitee
( 10000 RMB/ha )
Dongming  Sanpu   Huaiyin
Switch   Switch  Substation
Station   Station                              ____
I         Land Loss           10.8      14.4      14.4               group
2        Resettlement          18        24       14.4                group
3         Irrigation            3       2.25      2.25          village committee
4      Standing Crops          0.9       1.2       1.2             Contractor
5  Agriculture Development     6         3         3         Provincial government
Funds
6    Villages Construction     4.5       7.5      7.5         township government
7  Subsidy for state-ordered   1.5      2.25      2.25               village
grains
8   Vegetable Development      15        18        18          county government
9      Group Division           6        6         6           county government
10  Land ownership Change       2         2         2           County(city) Land
_______              Management Department
11    Land Restoration tax      3         3         3          county government
12  Occupation Tax for land     6        7.5       7.5                State
acquisition
13  Funds for agriculture to    6         6        6            countv government
non-agriculture activities
14   Preparing fee of local    1.74     1.97      1.84          County(city) Land
Mechanism                                          Management Department
I 5  Management fee of local    2.56    2.93      2.76         County(city) Land
Mechanism                                          Management Department
Total              87       102       92.1
28



Table 3.3      Compensation Rates and Indemnitee of Acquired Land for Tower
Foundation
[tems                   Compensation                  Indemnitee
Rates(l OOOORi 0 B/ha)
Province Name      Shanxi Henan Shandong Jiangsu/
._____  _________   Anhui
I_       Land Loss         10.8   11.7      10.8     14.4           groups
2       Resettlement         9     9.75      9        12             groups
3      Standing Crops       0.9   0.975     0.9       1.2         Contractor
4  Agriculture Development   6      6        6        3      Provincial government
Funds
5    Village Construction    3      3        3        3            township
6  Compensation for state-   1.5    1.5     1.5      2.25           village
ordered grains
7      Group Division       4.5    4.5      4.5      4.5      County government
8       Land Change          2      2        2        2        Land Management
Department of counties
9     Land Restoration       3      3        3        3       County government
10 Arable Land Occupation    6      6        6        7.5            State
Tax                                    _      l_l
11   Preparing tee of local  I       1        I        I       Land Management
I l   Mechanism        lIl____    Department of counties
12 Management fee of local  L.5   I .575     1.5      I .5     Land Management
Mechanism               _                          Department of counties
Total          49.2   51        49.2    55.35
3) Basis to compensation rates
* The basis to calculate the compensation rates land loss and
resettlement are listed in Table 3.4 and Table 3.5.
Table 3.4     Annual Production value per ha in the past 3 years
(10000 RMB/ha)
projects               county           1994     1995      1996   Average
A                     B               C         D        E         F
Shanxi           1.62     1.695     1.68      1.8
Tower Foundation           Henan             1.65     1.77     1.785     1.95
Shandong          1.59      1.71     1.665     1.8
Jiangsu/Anhui      2.175      2.37     2.34      2.4
Dongming Switch Station    Yuwo Township        1.68     1.725     1.74      1.8
Sanpu Switch Station    Zhangjie Township    2.175      2.4      2.28      2.4
Huaiyin Substation    Shanghe Township       2.25     2.34     2.325      2.4
29



Table 3.5    Land Compensation and Resettlement Subsidy Multipliers
Land    Land Compensation   Resettlement Subsidy     Total
Acquisition
Province  Shan He Shan Jiansu/ Shan He Shan Jiansu/ Shan He Shan Jiansu/
Name    xi nan dong Anhui xi nan dong Anhui  xi nan dong Anhui
Switch           6    6             10   10             16   16
Station
Substation              6                  6                   12
Tower    6  6   6    6    5  5   5             11  11  11   11
Foundation
* Housing Compensation
When developing this RAP, we investigated the house
rehabilitation prices estimated by construction department:
(DBrick concrete building 36ORMB/ M2
bar foundation of bricks or reinforced concrete, reinforced
concrete ring beam, reinforced concrete girds, brick walls bearing the
loads, flat tile, multi-porous plate, cement ground, steel and timber
doors and windows, vanished by sandy ground of 1:1:6, equipped with
running water and power
)Brick-timber single-story house 28ORMB/ M2
bar foundation of bricks or reinforced concrete, brick walls
bearing the loads, timber girds, flat tile, vanished inside and outside,
cement ground, common timber doors and windows, equipped with
running water and power
0 Brick-timber single-story house 22ORMB/ M2
irregular brick walls, irregular tile, timber girds, timber doors
and windows, cement ground, equipped with power and public water
The project classifies the acquired houses into three types:
buildings, single-story houses, and simple structures. There exist
differences among buildings or single-story houses, in the aspects of
structure, materials, and  quality. In  order to  ensure justice  and
reasonable compensation, the buildings and single-story houses are
classified into 3 sub-types, the corresponding compensation rates are:
buildings I 400 RMB/ M2, buildings II 360 RMB/ M2, building III 320
RMB/ M2 single-story houses I 290, single-story houses II 260, single-
story houses III 230RMB/ M-.
30



* Infrastructure Compensation
Project-affected infrastructure can be treated by engineering means.
The cost is listed in Table 3.6.
Table 3.6      Compensation Rates for infrastructure
Type                                      Compensation Standard
I   380V Power line                           included in the project cost
2    1OKV Power                                included in the project cost
3    1I1OKV Power line                         included in the project cost
4   Grade 2 Communication Line                 150000RMB/KM
5   Grade 3 communication Line                 60000RMB/KM
6   Communication Line                         30000RMB/KM
7   Receiving Apparatus for Satellite Signal   50000RMB each
31



4. COMPENSATION COST ESTIMATE AND BUDGET
The costs to be incurred on land acquisition and resettlement are
included in the overall budget of the project. The projected requirement
of funds for land acquisition and resettlement is given in Table 4.1, the
calculation is based on the rates of June, 1997. The total cost of land
acquisition and resettlement of this project is 86.49 million RMB.
A) Flow of funds
In accordance with the compensation policies and rates given in
this RAP, Project Resettlement Office(PRO) will sign agreements on
land acquisition and resettlement with the project contractors. Then the
project contractors will sign " Permanent Land Acquisition Agreement
of 500KV Yangcheng-Huaiyin Transmission Project " with the land
management bureaux of counties, township governments and village
committees along the line separately, and also will sign " Housing
Acquisition Agreement of 500KV Yangcheng-Huaiyin Transmission
Project" with the PAPs. According to the agreements, the PRO will
allocate the compensation funds to the provincial project resettlement
offices(PPROs) through banks. Then PPROs allocate them to the
project contractors, and the project contractors to county land
management bureaus(CLMBs), township governments, village
committees, and PAPs respectively. Meanwhile, the project contractors
will allocate the compensation funds for infrastructures and enterprises
to the owner units or individuals. The flow of funds is specified as
follows:
32



Compensation Type                                              F unds  Flow
PROLan loss  TE|Jrhe P'roject Contractor |Village GrouIDs
qStandina Crons       PRO        PPRO   -  The Proiect Contractor  lLand Contractor
qAuriculture Develonment Fund     EmP    -46i 6l- provincial Land nmanagemnen1t BUieau
_Villaue Construction    P -PR OThe Project Contractor  Township Government
_Compensation for State-ordered grains   PRO   -PPRO          Townshiip Government
Land     _Vetal Dee_rnnt,
Acquisition    Veetahle Develonment     PRO        PPRO    The Proieet Contractor    Coty Government
(Grour Division   JPPRO    TtC onaitoMtv GoVernmen
Land Chanae                            l The Proiect Contractor 
JReclaint Restoration Tay E8rhe Proiect Contractorj-lcou ntv Govern  n
l3-rov incial
_Arable Land OCCuDationPPRO    FT3he Project Contractorf- Countv Financial                   Government
Transfer from agricuLitural to non-agricUltural PRO
iih ProjecICon~tractd~-CLB        out
registration                                           C_M                                    ollnny|
[Prenarina fee of l ocal Mechanism      P         PjR3    T   Proie      nt
dManaeement fee of Local MechanismP
33



Compensation Type                                                 Funds  Flow
Comnensation for Houising and attached Stnictures  PRO          The Proiect Contractor 1   El
1l lose    Reclaim cost for original residence Bases                                           H iag
<        4 T 'Iaxes  for  Alternative  Residenc   _Bu=reau  _ > 
4Prenatine l;unds for local Mechanism       GII L         B                                 Povemmnt;I 
Manatement Costs of Local Mechanism         PRC       CMB
Infrastructure     --
/Enterprises             PPRO     The Project Contractor    wns of  Title |
34



B) Base Cost
1) Land acquisition cost
The land acquisition cost is calculated according to the land
acquisition compensation rates for tower foundation andU Svlitch station
and the quantity of acquired land.
2) House acquisition cost
* Compensation costs for houses and attached structures are
calculated on compensation rates and in kind quantities.
* The relocated cost for power, water, road, and field leveling is
calculated based on the rate of 30 RMB/ M2 for the area of acquired
houses.
* The removal compensation are calculated on the rate of
30ORMB/HH
* The calculations are based on the reclaim cost for origin
residence bases and new residence bases tax.
3) Management Costs for Local Mechanism
Respective organizations responsible for implementation of
resettlement and rehabilitation will be paid administrative expenses at
the rate of 3% of the total amount of compensation payable in their
jurisdictions.
4) Preparing Fee for local Mechanism
Local demolishing agencies at county level will be paid preparing
fund at the rate of 2% housing acquisition base costs(including
compensation for the houses and attached structures, reclaiming costs of
original residence bases, tax of new residence bases).The ROs of the
counties take charge of the fund.
5) Relocation costs for infrastructures:
The relocation costs for power lines will be added to the project
cost. The costs on other items are 2.57 million RMB in total.
6) Investigation and Design Costs
The investigation and design costs are 400,OOORMB.
7) Monitoring and Evaluation Costs
35



The monitoring and evaluation costs are 1.8 million RMB.
C) Management Cost
5% of all the above costs is the management cost of the project RO,
to pay for the equipment and activities related to land acquisition and
resettlement, such as transportation, meetings, telecommunication,
going out on business, official routine, etc.
D) Contingencies
10% of the base and project management costs are contingencies -
physical contingencies and price contingencies. Physical contingencies
have been included to provide for any changes in design and for any
unforeseen circumstance during RAP implementation. The above costs
are estimates based on June 1997 prices. Price contingencies have been
included to provide for any changes in prices and inflation during RAP
implementation.
36



Table 4.1     Land and House Acquisition Budget  (ten thousand RMB)
Items       Shanxi Henan IShandong Anhui Jiangsu   Sub-total
A            B  C          D    E                    G
Huaivin Substation     0     0         0     0  825.53        825.53
Land          Dongming Switch        0      0   627.27      0       0       627.27
Station      __
Sanpu Switch Station    0     0         0     0  921.20        921.20
Acquisition   Tower Foundation  114.56 425.26   558.42  65.73 1110.98      2274.95
Sub-Total     114.56 425.26   1185.69  65.73 2857.71     4648.95
Building        9.72  10.26     9.00     0   22.32          51.3
Single-story House   17.94   13.1    42.22  1.61  486.82      561.7
Simple Structures    2.04   0.34      0      0   26.34        29.00
Cost of Getting   3.39   2.45      5.62     0   64.62        76.34
water. power, road of
the new houses. and
of levelina the field          I       _                  _.
Attached Structures  46.99  53.70    28.16   5.52 1009.29    1143.65
Removal        0.360  0.180    0.750  0.090   2.460        3.84
Compensation
House     Reclaim of original   1.200 0.600    2.500  0.300   8.200       12.80
residence bases
Acquisition    Tax of alternative   2.400  1.200    5.000  0.600  16.400    25.60
residence bases                        _
Preparing fee for  1.68   1.64     1.87   0.17   32.73        38.08
Local Mechanism
Management Costs   5.96  15.21    38.37   2.23  134.82         196.6
for Local Mechanism
Sub-Total      91.68  98.68   133.49  11.07    1804      2138.92
Power Transmission                                        including in
Line                                                the project
cost
Infrastructures   Communication    222      0        0      0      30          252
Line               __
Receiving Apparatus    5      0        0      0       0            5
for Satellite Signal                    ._
Enterprises       65 134.55    23.87      0       0       223.42
Sub-Total        292 134.55    23.87      0     30        480.42
Investigation and Design Cost                        _                          40
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                      180
Management costs                .                        =___374.41
Contingencies                                 _             _               786.27
Total                                                                      8648.98
37



5. RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A) House Construction
Construction of replacement housing and removal of existing
housing will be carried out according to the following principles:
1) Compensation
. House compensation will be paid at replacement cost and no
depreciation will be deducted.
* Salvageable materials from the old house will belong to the PAPs.
They will be able to use these materials for the construction of their new
housing. The value of these materials will not be deducted from the
housing compensation to be paid to the PAPs.
* Compensation will be paid to the PAPs in installments, the
project contractors pay 70% before the PAPs begin building their new
houses. The last installment of compensation will be paid before the
completion of demolition of old houses and construction of new houses.
2) Scheduling
3 PAPs will be given at lest three months notice of the removal date,
and will be allowed a minimum of four months to build their new
houses. The construction schedule of housing will allow at least four
months between the completion of housing reconstruction and the
commencement of civil works.
* PAPs will remain in their original houses and need not move out
until their new houses are built before the scheduled date as described in
Table 5.1.
38



Table 5.1    Schedule for House Removal
Activities                       Dates                __
Be2in          End
Selection of alternative residencebe and  1997.3.1    1998.3.30
consultation with PAPs
Delivery of compensation to PAPs         1 998. 4. 1  1998. 1 2. 30
Construction of new houses               1998. 4. 1   1999. 3. 30     _
Delivery of the last installment of compensation   1998.7.1  1999. 4. 10
Moving into new housing                  1998. 7. 1   1999. 4. 10
Removal of old housing                   1998. 8. 1   1999. 4. 30
Civil works                              1998. 1. 1   2000. 2. 30
Notes: (I)The time of new houses construction may be earlier than the time in the
table.
(2)PAPs can move into their new houses earlier than July I of 1998.
(3)Before the operation of the project. the structures under the transmission
corridor mav not be demolished. Meanwhile. some parts of the line do not need
house acquisition. Thus, civil work may be earlier than houses demolition.
3) Location
PAPs will be resettled  in their original communities (original
village group), close to their original houses (not more than l.OKM
away), conveniently located with respect to their cultivated land.
4) Choices
Inside their original villages, PAPs can select plot for their new
houses and get residence bases based on the requirement of village
planning. In accordance with the wills of most PAPs, they remove old
houses and build new houses by themselves. PAPs can make the
decision freely whether to utilize the materials of old houses.
5) Consultation
The ROs of the project has consulted with PAPs on the location of
the resettlement sites and the rates of house compensation.
6) Vulnerable Groups
39



There are no vulnerable groups who need special care in the house
demolishing households affected by the project.
7) Housing Compensation Agreement of PAPs
Project Contractors sign Housing Acquisition Agreement with
households of acquired houses along the line separately.
8) PAPs' Participation in House Reconstruction
(1 )Reconstruction location and Method
When preparing the RAP, the project ROs organized a PAPs'
psychology survey, the results are as follows:
* Reconstruction location
From the three choices:(D original group, (X other groups inside
original village, (D others, 100% of the 56 households of PAPs chose d.
3 Reconstruction Method
From the two choices:(D demolish and build by themselves, (D
demolish or build in a whole by a special agency. 100% of the 56
households of PAPs chose (D.
In accordance with the above results, the resettlement policies of
World Bank and of P.R.China, the reconstruction locations are all in the
original groups, PAPs demolish and build by themselves.
(2)House Compensation Rates
The representatives of PAPs negotiated many times with ROs of
project, and of counties. The compensation rates changed from the
former 300 RMB/ M2 for buildings, 200 RMB/ M2 for single-story
houses to 320-400 RMB/ M2 for buildings, 230-290 RMB/ M2 for
single-story houses.
B) Infrastructure Relocation
There are sixteen enterprises affected in the project. They are all
private or village-owned and in small size. Ten of them have stopped
producing. The project can only compensate their houses and some
relevant facilities. The other six enterprises are engaged in exploring of
40



stone and coal. The project affects their houses only (the houses have to
be moved), but does not affects their production area. It means that the
normal production and running activities will not be affected by the
project, and the workers will not lose their jobs because of the project.
Compensation to affected enterprise is listed in Table 5.2. Compensation
to affected infrastructures is listed in Table 5.3.
Table 5.2 Compensation to Affected Enterprises
Provi Location           Name   Oxvner Quant Number ot Structur Foundation  Present   Compensation
nce                                      itv    Employ'ees  es (M' ) Areaf M' )  Situation  (IOOOORMB)
Shan  Xiaogou Village.   Stone   Village      i           6       40          150 Operating               5
xi    Beiliu Township   pit
Shizongtou         Stone   Village     2           12       90         280 Operating               10
Village. Zhoucun   pit
To%%nship
Xitengoou. Lizhai Coal    Village       1          18       70         420 Operating                9
Township           mininQ  _
Dongtenggou.      Coal    ViIlage      2                   130         800 Bankruptc               18
Nancun Township  mining  _
Nanvu Village.    Brick   Village       2                  130        1300 Bankruptc               18
_ Daqi Township    tield                                                    v
He   Bianzhuang.         Stone   Village      I           7       50          140 Operating               5
nan   Xiuwvu Count\       it
Changtun Village. Lime    Private       3                  723      6945.5 Bankruptc            68.89
Mengzhuang         po% der                                                 v
Township          factorv          .
Weibei. Fantun     Forging Private      i                 216         1750 Bankruptc            19.23
To%%nship          Factor\    -                                            y
DongmiaoVillase. kire    Village        i                1074         2990 Bankruptc           46.44
Gaopine Tov\nship Factor\    -       -
Shan  Longwvangmiao      Wood   Private       I           4      406         500 Operating            16.91
dong  Village. Shan      process
Countx             actorn
Yanzhuang          Brick   Village      1                  130         800 Bankruptc             6.96
Village. Jiunu     tield                                                   v
Towvnship                                                             _
Note: Coal mining of Xifenggou. Lizhi Township was in illegal running. They had
been ordered to stop production by local government.
41



Table 5.3 Summarv of Affected Infrastructures
Affected Infrastructure Quantity           Unit            Compensation Fund
I   10kv Power line      5km         Yangcheng Countv Power  Included in the project
Supply Bureau                cost
2   1 IOkvPower line     2.5km      Zezhou County Power Supply Included in the project
Bureau                    cost
3   Grade 2               12km      Beiliu T'wnship. Yangcheng    1.8 million RMB
Communication Line                Counrv. Shanxi Province   _
4   Grade 3              7km        Beiliu Township. Yangcheng      420.000 RMB
communication Line                County. Shanxi Province
5   Receiving Apparatus   I           Daqi Township. Zezhou         50.000 RMB
for Satellite Signal              Countv. Shanxi Province
6   1Okv Power line      5 pieces    Shan County Power Supply  Included in the project
Bureau                    cost
7   380v Power line      5 pieces     Tongshan County Power   Included in the project
Supply Bureau                cost
8   Communication Line   I piece      Tongshan County Power        300.000 RMB
Supply Bureau
9   lOkvPower iine       2km          Tongshan County Power   Included in the project
_________        Supply Bureau                cost
10  35kvPower line       2km          Tongshan County Power   Included in the project
Supply Bureau                cost
1 IlOkvPower line        6k1m      Suining Countv Power Suppiv Included in the project
Bureau                    cost
12  35kvPower line       6km        Sihong County Power Supply Included in the project
____________________  _________          Bureau                    cost
C ) Production Recovering
1) Tower Foundation
Land acquisition for tower foundation affected 26 counties (cities),
125 townships, 564 villages. The total acquired land is 43.3 ha, that is
average 0.076 ha per village. The land is distributed extensively. The
acquired land can be put into farming operation after the construction of
tower foundation, and the local villages and groups can get 198,000 -
264,000 RMB/ha of land and resettlement compensation fund. The
acquired land occupies only about 0.07% of the local villages, and
impacts little. Thus, there is no labor arrangement problems.
2)    Basic    Situation         on    Land        Acquisition        for    Switch
Stations/Substation Extension Works
42



Switch stations construction and substation extension works do
not need house acquisition. The acquired land villages can readjust their
land according to the investigation. Land acquisition information is
detailed in Table 5A4.
Table 5.4      Basic Situation on Land Acquisition for Switch
Stations/Substation Extension Works
Dongrning Sanpu      Huaiyin       HIuaivin    Renzhuang
Switch    Switch     Substation     Substation  Substation
Station    Station                  Extension  Extension
Work       Work
Affected Unit               Yuzhouji Hanzhuang Jiudian and    HIuaiyin    Renzhuang
Village    Village    Qianren       Substation  Substation
Village
Acquired Land (ha)          7.2       9          8.96           0          0o
Total Arable Land(ha)       187       129.5      250.3
Arable Land Acquired        3.85      6.95       3.58
Accounting for Percentage of
the Total Arable Land ( % )                      I
Population (person)         1529      825        3303                           _
Number of Household(HH)   396         193        716
Number of Laborers          724       373        2126
Land Per Capita Before     0.122      0.156      0.076
Acquisition(ha)
Land Per Laborer Before     0.258     0.347      0.118
Acquisition(ha)
Land Per Capita After       0.118     0.146      0.073
Acquisition(ha)
Land Per Labor After        0.24 8    0.323      0.114
Acquisition(ha)
Population Affected bv Land  59       57         118
Acquisition
Average Affected Population  0.15     0.30       0.16
per Household                                    I
Number of Laborers Affected  28       26         76
by Land Acquisition
Average Number of Affected  0.07      0.13       0.11
Laborers per Household                                          _
3) Substation Extension Works
Huaivin Substation Extension Project
Huaiyin Substation Extension Project is in the scope of Huaiyin
43



Substation, which is an auxiliary project of Yangzhou No.2 Power Plant.
The extension project needs no land acquisition.
Huaiyin Substation is located at the joining area of Jiudian and
Qianren Village, Shanghe Township, Huaian City. The substation is in
construction now.
Renzhuang Substation Extension Project
Renzhuang Substation   Extension Project is constructed inside
former Renzhuang Substation. The project needs no land acquisition
and resettlement.
4)Switch Stations
Sanpu Switch Station
( I)Impact of Land Acquisition
Sanpu Switch Station will be located at Hanzhuang Village,
Zhangji Township, Tongshan County. There are two production groups
in the village. The social and economic background of the village in
1996 is detailed in Table 5.5
Table 5.5 Basic Situation on Social and Economic of Hanzhuang Village in 1996
Group   Population Total   Total    Income Agricultural  Orchard Industrial
(person)   Cultivated Cultivated (million Income  (mu)   Crops Area
Land before Land after RMB)  (million RMB)   (mu)
the     the
Acquisition Acquisition
(mu)     (mu)
I st Group 415    1 039    1039     2.07    1.25       0       90
2nd Group 410     903      768       2.0    1.1         0      85
Whole   825       1942     1807      4.07   2.35        0      175
Sanpu Switch Station will acquire 135 mu (9ha) land of the 2nd
production group of Hanzhuang Village, accounting for 15%  of the
whole village cultivated land. The average per capita cultivated land
holding prior to the land acquisition is 2.2 mu and it falls to 1.87 mu
after the acquisition. On basis of 840kg of grain crops output per mu in
the normal year, the total output of grain crops of the whole group will
reduce by 108 tons a year, with the reducing of 330kg per capita. The
44



income of the group will cut down 97,000 RMB a year, accounting 5%
of the annual income 2 million RMB.
(2) Land Adjustment
The village determined to adjust the land in the whole village after
the acquisition, with both workgroups sharing ownership of planned
investments. The adjustment schedule is referred to Table 5.6 .
Table 5.6 Land Adjustment Schedule after Land Acquisition of Sanpu Switch
Station
Group      Population    Before Adjustm nt    After Adjustme t
(person)   Cultivated Land Land  Per Cultivated    Land  Per
(mu)       Capita(mu)   Land (mu)   Capita(mu)
IstGroup    415       1039        2.5         913         2.2
2nd Group   410       768         1.87        894         2.18
(3) The total amount of land acquisition compensation and
resettlement subsidy for the village is 3.456 million RMB. The village
plans to plant apple trees in 60 mu land with production. The 60 mu is
basically in I st work group. It is estimated that the investment on apple
trees and the level of land would be 0.51 million RMB. Two years later,
the apple output per mu will not be lower than 3500kg (In Feng county
nearby the output per mu 5000kg), and the income per mu will not be
lower than 2940 RMB.
By comparison, if the low-productivity is used to plant grain crops,
it produces 500kg grain crops per mu and has an income of 450
RMB/mu, Then the village may increase 0.15 million RMB each year
through the improve of the land. Refer to next block.
45



Investment: Investment on 350 apple trees (per mu): 3500RMB
Leveling of land (per mu): 1 000RMB
Improve irrigation facilities: 1 50,OOORMB
Fertilizer and pesticide (per mu): IOOORMB
Other facilities and materials: 30,OOORMB
Total investment: 51 0,OOORMB
Benefit:   Each apple tree will produce apples 1 OKG in the third year,
and the per mu will be 3500KG. From the fourth year, the land
can produce apples over 4000KG per mu each year, and
6000KG-7000KG at most. On the basis of I .2RMB/KG of the
lowest market price of apple, in the 3rd year the land can get
income of 4200RMB/mu, and it may get 2940RMB/mu income
for the risk factor 30%.
In total, the plan will bring 0.15 million RMB income to the
village.
Feasibility Analysis: According to the analysis of county agriculture
technical department, the soil of Hanzhuang village
is adaptable for apple planting. Feng County
nearby
is the apple of Jiangsu Province, and it can provide
technical assistances. In addition, there is only
Xuzhou Municipality planting apple now. So the
apple market is very hopeful.
(4) The village has planted 175 mu industrial crops. They plan to
plant cotton on another 160 mu (10% of the grain crops land). This may
need 0.2 million RMB investment on improving irrigation facilities and
ordering some agricultural materials. In 1996, the income of cotton land
was 1 100 RMB/mu and the income of grain crop land was 770 RMB/mu.
Then the land may have an additional income of 330 RMB/mu. The plan
can bring 53000RMB a year to the village.
(5) The village plans to invest 0.5 million RMB on improving the
whole village irrigation facilities to increase the output of grain crop
land. It is estimated that the per mu may increases by 3%. This plan may
raise the grain crop output by 40 tons and increase the income by about
36000RMB.
(6) The village plans to save the left 2.24 million RMB in bank
46



under the control of the village committee. The interest per year will be
I lO,OOORMB on an annual rate of 5%(Actually an annual interest rate in
bank hits 5.9% now).
Dongming Switch Station
(1) Impact of Land Acquisition
Dongming Switch Station will be located at Yuzhouji Village,
Yuwo Township, Dongming County. There are 9 production groups in
the village. The project will acquire 108mu (7.2ha)collective land of the
village, occupying 3.85% of the total cultivated land in the village. The
acquisition is relevant to the 2nd group, the 3rd group and 7th group,
and the areas are 25mu, 53mu and 30mu respectively. The social and
economic background of the village is detailed in Table 5.7 .
Table 5.7 Basic Situation on Social and Economic of Yuzhouji Village in 1996
Group    Population Total   Total     Total  Agricultural Orchard  Industrial
(person)   Cultivated Cultivated  Income Income    Area(mu) Crops
Land before Land  after (million (million    Area (mu)
the     the        RMB)  RMB)
Acquisition Acquisition
_________        (mu)     (mu)
2nd Group 175     2235      210       0. 16  0. 11      0       2
3rdGroup |267      500      447       0. 27   0. 21     0       3
7th Group  160     235      205       0. 14  0.11       0       1
Whole    1529      2805     2697      1. 54  0. 95     8        35
Village   .
The average grain crop output per mu of the high output farm land
is 700KG. After the land acquisition, the output of grain crops will
reduce by 75.6 tons, and the grain crop output per capita of the three
groups will reduce by 125KG. By this, the village will decrease the
income by 80,000 RMB, occupying 5.2% of the total income of the
village and occupying 14% of the income of the three groups in 1996.
Agriculture income is the main income source of the three affected
groups. But the irrigation facilities there do not work well and there
many low output farm lands. The average grain crop output per mu of
the three groups is about 460KG. The planting types are corns and
47



wheat.
(2)The total amount of land acquisition compensation and
resettlement subsidy for the village is 1.9736 million RMB. The village
plans to improve the irrigation facilities of the three affected groups. A
water source project will be constructed. The project may upgrade 730
mu farm land of the three groups (170 mu of the 2nd group, 400 mu of
the 3rd group and 160 mu of the 7th group). As a result, 40% of 730 mu
may upgrade to paddy field. The investment on the plan is 1.2 million
RMB (0.6 million RMB on the water source project, and 0.6 million
RMB on the ditch system). It is estimated that the average output per mu
may increase from 460KG to 600KG, from which it is expected to
increase the grain crop output by 120 tons and the income by
100,OOORMB each year.
(3)The village plans that watermelons will be planted instead of
grain crops for 20mu in each group of the three affected groups. The
investment on fertilizer and plastic films is 1000RMB per mu, and the
total investment is 60,OOORMB. Each mu of land may produce
watermelons above 5000KG. On the basis of 0.25RMB/KG of the
lowest market price of watermelorL the land can get income of more
than 1250 RMB/mu. The plan may bring an extra some 40,OOORMB
income to the three groups.
(4)The affected three groups also can develop breeding, fruit-
planting and industrial crop planting to improve the income of PAPs.
(5)The village plans to save the left 0.71 million RMB in bank,
under the control of the village committee. The interest per year will be
36,OOORMB on an annual rate of 5%(Actually an annual interest rate in
bank hits 5.9% now).
4)All told, the total permanent land acquisition for the tower
foundation, 500KV  substation   extension works and two switch
stations, is 59.5ha, distributing in 564 villages. The average per laborer
cultivated land holding is still 0.21ha. Land acquisition will not impact
much to production and income of PAPs. Although Land acquisition for
two switch stations will relatively impact much to PAPs of two switch
stations, the PAPs can restore their incomes through the above measures
and their livelihoods will not decrease because of construction of the
project.
48



Original Residence Bases of PAPs
After demolishing, the local groups will reclaim the original
residence bases. The project will give 1000 RIvIB/HH f      the
original residence bases.
Original Enterprise Land
The original enterprise land will be reclaimed. The project will pay
3 RMB/ Af' for reclaiming the land to solve its production problem. The
land will be returned to the local groups.
D) Resettlement and Implementation Schedule
49



Table 5.5  Implantation Schedule
1997                                    1998        1999        2000
Items               | *   4T   51   61  71    8|  91  10|11-1              2|       1       41;- l       -       1-2
establishing
proiect RO
establishing ROs
of losnships and
villages
base-line loss
surv e!_
anaiysis data and
summarn                         .
impactigr.
prolect RO
consult
representatives
of PAPs on            ._   _   ._               ._   ..           .      .
resettlement
policies and
plans
prepanng and
compiling RAP
base-line surve%                                            _     .      ..
apply and get
planmng.
certification ior
land use
applN and get
construction
cenification tor
land use
negotiate and
sign agreement
on land and
house
acquisition. and
resettlement
PRO distribute
funds to PPROs
PPROs distribute
funds to the
protect
contractors
distribute
compensation
mone%
build relocate
houses                                                                   __.__
PAPs move to
nes location                                                             ___ _
demolish
onitinal houses                                                      -_ __                                _
project
construction
independent
monitoring
act;' ties
50



E) Funds Distribution Schedule of ROs of project, provinces, and
project contractors
in accordance with the agreements signed between project RO and
project contractors and between project contractors and Land
Management Bureau, township or PAPs, the project RO will distribute
70% funds to PPROs from February 1998 to October 1998. The PPROs
will distribute house compensation to the project contractors from
March 1998 to November 1998. The project contractors will distribute
70% of house compensation to household of PAPs from April, 1998 to
December, 1998. The last installment compensation should be paid to
PAPs from July, 1998 to the end of April, 1999.
In total, PAPs will get 70% of the land compensation fee before
they build their new houses. The detail pay days are determined by the
progress of the project.
F) Resettlement Information Booklet
In order to ensure timely dissemination of resettlement information,
the project RO will prepare a resettlement information booklet. The
booklets will be distributed to PAPs before the project give the
compensation funds to county ROs. The booklet includes main contents
of RAP: compensation and resettlement policies, PAPs' rights. The
booklets will be distributed to PAPs before December, 1997.
The booklet is included in Annex 6.
51



6. INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION
A)     Institutions  Responsible  for  Resettlement  Planning,
Management, Implementation and monitoring
The main institutions or agencies responsible for planning,
implementing, coordinating and monitoring of resettlement activities
are:
(1) Project Resettlement Leading Group(PRLG)
(2) Project Resettlement Office(PRO)
(3) Project Resettlement Office(PRO) of Relevant Provinces
* Shanxi Provincial PRO
* Henan Provincial PRO
* Shandong Provincial PRO
* Jiangsu Provincial PRO (including Anhui province)
(4) The Project Contractors
(5) County Land Management Bureaux(CLMB)
(6) East China Electric Power Design Institute(ECEPDI)
3 Shanxi Electric Power Design Institute
3 Henan Electric Power Design Institute
* Shandong Electric Power Design Institute
3 Jiangsu Electric Power Design Institute
(7) National Research Central for Resettlement(NRCR)
(8) Township Resettlement Offices(TRO)
(9) Village Committees and Groups
B) Responsibilities
1) Project Resettlement Leading Group(PRLG)
PRLG is responsible for leading works of the resettlement
activities of the project. it takes charge of the coordinating of the
resettlement activities among the relevant provinces.
2) PRO
* Entrust the survey design institute to define the scope of
resettlement impact, conduct population census, maintain data and train
the ROs responsible for the use of data.
* Develop the policy of the RAP
52



* Compile of the RAP
* Coordinate the implementation of the RAP and the construction
schedule.
* Sign resettlement contracts with County Land Management
Bureaus
* Disburse resettlement funds to Provincial Resettlement Offices,
and monitor the utility of resettlement funds
* Guide, coordinate, and monitor resettlement implementation and
progress
* Coordinate among organizations involved in resettlement
* Monitor resettlement activities
* Review monitoring reports
* Prepare progress reports and submit them to the Project
Management Office(PMO)
o Provide the resettlement budget
3)Provincial Project Resettlement Offices(PPROs)
o Shanxi PPRO is responsible for the resettlement activities within
Shanxi Province. Henan PPRO is responsible for the resettlement
activities within Henan Province. Shandong PPRO is responsible for the
resettlement activities within Shandong Province. Jiangsu PPRO is
responsible for the resettlement activities within Jiangsu Province.
* Assist the survey design institute to carry out social and
economic surveys
* Develop the policy of RAP
* Disburse the resettlement funds to the project contractors, and
monitor the utility of the funds
* Prepare progress reports and submit them to the Project
Resettlement Office(PRO)
* Assist the independent monitoring organization to monitor the
resettlement activities within the province
4) The Project Contractors
* Implement the resettlement activities in their contracted projects
oApply for Planning License for Land Use and Permission for
Construction Land Use to relevant authorities.
* Sign resettlement contracts with County Land Management
53



Bureaus, townships, villages and groups for implementation
* Sign house acquisition contracts with PAPs
* Be responsible for the acquisition of public structures and
infrastructures
* Allocate the resettlement funds to relevant counties, townships
and villages, and monitor the utility of the funds
* Assist the independent monitoring organization to monitor the
resettlement activities
* Report to the local PPRO on work progress
5) County Land Management Bureaux
* Assist the survey design institutes to carry out social-economic
survey
* Assist to develop RAP
* Go through formalities for land and house acquisition
* Guide and monitor TROs
* Allocate resettlement funds and monitor their utilization.
- Train staff of TROs
- Report to PRO
* Solve the conflicts and problems encountering in the
implementation of resettlement
6) TROs                          &
* Survey, monitor and record all resettlement activity within its
jurisdiction.
- Train the resettlement staff of villages
* Go through formalities for house acquisition for PAPs
* Allocate and manage the compensation funds
* Allocate plots for new residence bases, and take special care to
vulnerable groups.
* Supervise acquisition of land, houses, attached structures, as well
as house reconstruction and relocation
* Report to county Land Management Bureaus about land and
house acquisition, and resettlement
* Solve the conflicts and problems encountering during the
implementation
54



7) Village Administration Committee and Production Team
* Participate in social-economic surveys
* Select relocation sites.
Organize public consultation; disseminate land and house
acquisition policy
* Report to upper organizations about the opinions and suggestion
of PAPs
* Report the progress of the implementation of resettlement;
* Assist the vulnerable groups
8) Survey design institute (ECEPDI and 5 provincial Electric Power
Design Institutes, and NRCR)
* Optimize the design to decrease the project impacting
* Define scope of land and house acquisition area, prepare for and
participate social-economic survey
? Analyze data
- Assist PRO in the preparation of the RAP
* Provide technical assistance on data management and
measurement issues to PRO, CLMBs, TROs.
9) Independent Monitoring Organization(IMO)
As an independent monitor, this organization observes all aspects
of resettlement planning and implementation and provides reports to the
PRO and World Bank on progress of resettlement. Responsibilities of
this organization are presented in detail under Independent Monitoring
in Chapter 9.
C) Staffing
55



Table 6.1      Staffing of the Resettlement Institutions Involved in the Project
Resettlement   Avg.No.  Total no.      Education     Date Staffed        Notes
Institutions  of Staff   of Staff    Background    & mobilized
A            B         C              D               E                F
15        20     15 graduated from   from Mav
PRO                                  college         1997
PPRO           39        51      39 graduated from  from Oct.
______________     college          1997
Project        42        58     42 graduated from   from Oct.
Contractors                             college         1997
52        78    52 graduaded from   from May   CLMBs. TROs have
county Land                             college          1997      good transportation.
Management                                                         telecommunication.
Bureaux                                                           and data treatment
.__________         tools.
TROs          258       387        129 graduated    from Mav
from college       1997
village committee   1128     1692       village cadres    from May
and production                                            1997
team
ECEPDI and the      10        1 5    15 graduated from   from Mav      survev design.
provincial                             college          1997        monitoring and
institutes                                                      evaluation institutions
NRCR( one of       12        18       5 professors. 3   Form August    have advanced
IMOs. and one of                      Ph.D., 10 masters    1997        computers and
the survey design                                                      technical level.
institutions)                           _         _                                   l
The resettlement institutions involved in the project are well staffed.
The average number of staff is 1512, the total number of staff is 2268.
Telecommunication among the institutions is very good. All of these
will facilitate implementing RAP.
56



E) Organizational Charts
Project        l
IResettlement   I
Survey Design Agenciesl
Electric Power Design_    Pi)
Institutesl,
Shanxi Branc   Henan Branch   Shandong      Jiangsu Branch
of PRO       of PRO      Branch of PRO      of PRO
ICLMBs 
TRs
Village, groups
and committees
PAPs
The body of the organizations:
1) Project Resettlement Leading Group consists of the chief of the
Capital Construction Bureau of the Ministry of Power, the deputy chief
of Shanxi provincial Power Bureau, the deputy chief of Henan
provincial Power Bureau, the deputy chief of Shandong provincial
Power Bureau, the deputy chief of Anhui provincial Power Bureau, the
deputy chief of Jiangsu provincial Power Bureau. The chief of the group
is the chief of the Capital Construction Bureau of the Ministry of Power
2) PRO consists of the director of the Capital Construction
Department of Shanxi Provincial Power Bureau, the director of the
Capital Construction Department of Henan Provincial Power Bureau,
the director of the Capital Construction Department of Shandong
Provincial Power Bureau, the director of the Capital Construction
57



Department of Jiangsu Provincial Power Bureau and 11 people from the
Project Preparatory . The chief is the director of the Project Preparatory.
3) PPROs
* Shanxi PPRO consists of the director of the Capital Construction
Department of Shanxi Provincial Power Bureau, the project manager of
Shanxi Branch of the Project Preparatory, Shanxi Provincial Land
Management Bureau( 1 person), Shanxi Provincial Transmission
Construction  Company(2  persons)(project  contractor),  Guizhou
provincial Transmission Construction Company(2 persons)(project
contractor). The director of the Capital Construction Department of
Shanxi Provincial Power Bureau is the chief.
. Henan PPRO consists of the director of the Capital Construction
Department of Henan Provincial Power Bureau, the project manager of
Henan Branch of the Project Preparatory, Henan Provincial Land
Management Bureau( 1 person), Jiangxi Provincial Transmission
Construction  Company(2  persons)(project  contractor),  Guangxi
Autonomous  Regional  Transmission  Construction  Company(2
persons)(project contractor), and Henan Provincial Power Construction
Company(2 persons)(project contractor). The director of the Capital
Construction Department of Henan Provincial Power Bureau is the
chief.
* Shandong PPRO   consists of the director of the Capital
Construction Department of Shandong Provincial Power Bureau, the
project manager of Shandong Branch of the Project Preparatory,
Shandong Provincial Land Management Bureau(1 person), Shaanxi
Provincial Transmission Construction Company(2 persons)(project
contractor),  Shandong   Provincial  Transmission   Construction
Company(2 persons)(project contractor), and  Hunan  Provincial
Transmission Construction Company(2 persons)(project contractor).
The director of the Capital Construction Department of Shandong
Provincial Power Bureau is the chief.
* Jiangsu PPRO   consists of the director of the Capital
Construction Department of Jiangsu Provincial Power Bureau, the
project manager of Jiangsu Branch of the Project Preparatory, Jiangsu
Provincial Land Management Bureau(1 person), Heilongjiang
Provincial Transmission Construction Company(2 persons)(project
contractor),  East-China  Transmission  Construction  Company(2
58



persons)(project contractor), Zhejiang Provincial Power Construction
Company(2 persons)(project contractor), and Anhui Provincial Power
Construction Company(2 persons)(project contractor), and Shanghai
Power Construction Company(2 persons)(project contractor). The
director of the Capital Construction Department of Jiangsu Provincial
Power Bureau is the chief.
There are only 9KM of the transmission line in Anhui Province, and
the resettlement work is very limited. So Jiangsu PPRO will take the
responsibility for the resettlement activities in Anhui Province.
4) Project Contractors:
Shanxi Provincial Transmission Construction Company, Guizhou
provincial Transmission Construction Company, Jiangxi Provincial
Transmission Construction Company, Guangxi Autonomous Regional
Transmission Construction Company, Henan Provincial Power
Construction Company, Shaanxi Provincial Transmission Construction
Company, Shandong Provincial Transmission Construction Company,
Hunan Provincial Transmission Construction Company Heilongjiang
Provincial  Transmission   Construction   Company,  East-China
Transmission Construction Company, Zhejiang Provincial Power
Construction Company, Anhui Provincial Power Construction Company
and Shanghai Power Construction Company. All these project
contractors set up resettlement departments.
E) Measures for Strengthening Institutional Capacity
* 5 regular working staff of PRO attended the " World Bank
Financed Project Resettlement and Rehabilitation Workshop", held by
EDI of World Bank and NRCR.
* PRO will train the working staff of CLMB and TRO.
* Funds will be provided and arranged by Jiangsu Provincial Power
Company. So Funds are fully guaranteed.
* Communication is reinforced. The serious problems should be
solved by leading groups.
* Reports and internal monitoring are improved. Problems should
be settled timely.
* Reinforce independent monitoring and evaluation. The IMO
points out existing problems and suggests resolutions.
59



7. PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
In order to develop relevant policies and RAP, to carry out the
implementation efficiently , to guarantee the legal interests of PAPs, to
decrease the grievances and conflicts, and to fulfill the objective of well
relocating the PAPs, special attention will be paid to participation and
consultation with the PAPs in the project when develop the policies and
RAP, and during the implementation phase. The opinions of PAPs are
collected widely. During the project preparing phase- feasibility study,
the project RO has consulted with the government, People's Congress,
Political Consultant Committee, people's groups, and representatives of
PAPs from the affected counties and townships about the wire direction,
sites of substations and switch stations, suggestions on resettlement.
From March to June 1997, the line direction staffs from ROs of
various levels, villages, groups, and representatives of PAPs took part in
the base-line census. The ROs of the project collected their opinions on
the line direction, land and house acquisition, resettlement and
rehabilitation, and compensation rates, and consulted with them widely.
In the period from August to October 1997, before the compilation
of RAP, the project ROs office and census design institute carried out
large-scale of social-economic survey and psychology survey, collecting
the opinions on the project and resettlement from the affected
households, counties, townships, villages, and groups. The results of the
psychology survey are: 94.7% of the 56 affected households know the
project will construct, 94.7% approve the project, 73.6% are clear about
the compensation policies for land acquisition of the project, 100%
think that the project is beneficial to state , 94.7% think the project is
beneficial to the individual. 100% are willing to follow the land
acquisition and resettlement, and 94.7% aware that they can complain if
legal rights are offended. As for the location of new residence bases,
100% choose to be relocated in their own groups. 100% are willing to
demolish old house and build new houses by themselves. See table 7.1
for further information of the public opinion survey. All of the above
have been absorbed fully in the RAP.
60



Table 7.1      Summarv of Public Opinions and Suggestion
Problems                   Chooses               Households       Results( %)
_________________    ___________________________         involved  | (1)  2     1( )
I Do vou knowv the       (I) Yes.                             56       94.7  5.3   0  0
project will begin?   ( 2 ) Not verv sure.   3 ) No.
2  Do you approve the      I) Yes. ( 2 ) No.                   56       100   0   0   0
project'?             ( 3 ) Indifference
Who do vou think the a) State                               56       100   0   0   0
project               (I ) Yes. (2) No.
3  will benefit?        b ) collectives                        56       100   0   0   0
I ) Yes. ( ) No.
c) Individual                         56       94.7  5.3   0   0
(I) Yes. ( 2 ) No.                             _    _
4  Are you clear about   ( I ) Yes.                            56      42.1 36.9 21   0
the compensation      ( 2 ) Not verv clear.
policies of the       (3)No.
project'?
5  Will you follow' the    ( I ) Yes. ( 2 ) No.                56       i00  0.0  0   0
land and house
acquisition. and
resettlement?
6  Selection of          ( I ) Local group (2 ) Other          56       100   0   0   0
alternative residence group of local village
base                  ( 3 ) Others
7  Do you know you can  (I) Yes.                               56      94.7  5.3   0   0
appeal if your legal    ( 2 ) No.
rights are offend?
8  Your selection of     ( I ) demolish and build all by       56       100   0   0   0
method to build your yourself
new houses            ( 2) demolish and build bv
special agencies as a whole
9  Which will you pav  (l)compensation standard                56       100   0   0   0
attention ?          (2)residence base arrangement
(3)job arrangement
(4)house construction mode
10 Your selection to job  ( I )land readjustment in vour group  56      100   0   0   0
arrangement          (2)enterprises
(3)the individual search for jobs
_______ __   (4)old-age pension                                _        _
In the future, the following process and measurement will be carried
out to encourage public participation and consultation:
* Information and Discussion Meetings
61



Local government should support and coordinate the meetings. The
representatives of PAPs, staff from village and groups, women(women
should be more than 30% of all representatives)will take part in the
meetings. The meetings will also inform them about the process and
obtain their further opinions and suggestions.
* Public Gathering Meetings
The  meetings are held mainly  before the resettlement, to
explain relevant policies, laws and regulations, compensation rates, etc.
Thus, PAPs can get early preparation for the resettlement.
* Propaganda through media
All the opinions and suggestions on the resettlement will be
compiled and be handled by ROs at various levels.
62



8. GRIEVANCE AND APPEALS
The project pays special attention on the PAPs participation
throughout the planning and imnlementation process. To ensure that the
PAPs have avenues for redressing their grievance and appeals,
transparent and efficient procedures of redressal of grievances have been
established for the project. The purpose is to avoid raising serious
grievance problems.
The procedures are as follows:
Stage I :
If any PAP is aggrieved by any aspect of the resettlement and
rehabilitation program, he / she can lodge an oral or written grievance
with the Village Administration Committee or the local TRO.
In case an oral compliant is made, it will be written on paper by the
village unit and processed. Village Administration Committee or the
TRO will resolve the issue within two weeks.
Stage 2:
If the Aggrieved person is not satisfied with the decision in stage I,
he / she can bring the complaint to the attention of the CLMB after the
receipt of the decision in Stage I. CLMB will reach a decision on the
complaint within two weeks.
Stage 3:
If the Aggrieved person is not satisfied with the decision of the
CLMB , he / she can bring the complaint to the attention of the PRO
after the date of the receipt of the decision in Stage 2. PRO will reach a
decision on the complaint within four weeks.
Stage 4:
If the PAP is still dissatisfied by the decision, he /she can appeal to
the Peoples Court in accordance with the "Civil Procedure Act" after
receiving the decision of the PRO.
PAPs can make an appeal on any aspect of the resettlement and
rehabilitation program, including compensation rates being offered.
The procedures above will be publicized among the PAPs during
participation meetings and other ways. Thus the PAPs will be clear
about their rights of grievance and appeals.
63



9. Monitoring
Implementation of land acquisition. resettlement and rehabilitation
activities will be monitored regularly to ensure that they are carried out
in accordance with the provisions of the RAP and PAPs are well
resettled. There are two kinds of monitoring- internal monitoring and
independent monitoring.
Internal Monitoring should be carried out by project ROs, county
ROs, county Land Management Bureau, and township ROs to ensure
that all the responsible units follow the schedule and comply with the
principles of the RAP. The purpose of this internal monitoring is to
maintain the satisfactory functioning of the institutional organization of
resettlement during the implementation process.
NRCR will act as the Independent Monitoring Organization(IMO)
to undertake the Independent Monitoring of the resettlement component
to observe: i). the functioning of the resettlement network; ii). progress
on land acquisition and the PAPs' relocation; iii).resettlers' living
rehabilitation and iv). analysis the living standards of the PAPs .The
purpose of independent monitoring is to provide an evaluation of
resettlement by an organization independent to the project ROs., review
the overall implementation from a broader, long term point of view.
Independent monitors will follow the resettlement activities to evaluate
whether the goals of resettlement are achieved through observing i). the
application of the Laws of P.R.C. pertaining to resettlement; ii).
compliance with the principles of the World Bank's operational
Directive O.D. 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement; and iii).an
improvement in the standards of living of the PAPs or at least maintain
the pre-project levels of well-being. The IMO will serve as the adviser
to the PRO so that anticipated problems associated with the resettlement
implementation will be addressed in a timely manner.
A) Internal Monitoring and Supervision
PRO has developed an internal monitoring framework to supervise
the resettlement activities. PRO maintains the data base of land and
house acquisition, and resettlement in its office and monitors the
64



progress in resettlement preparation and implementation through a
100% monitorinc of the activities with the assistance of local ROs.
Relevant sections of the database are shared with the county Land
Management Bureaux and village ROs. Assisted by the database, county
Land Management Bureaux can prepare local RAPs, implements the
RAP, and carry out internal monitoring on the whole implementation.
1) Implementation Procedure
During the implementation, county Land Management Bureaus will
enter implementation information from the township ROs on individual,
household and unit based on templates prepared for monitoring and
deliver the record of the current activity timely to PRO. PRO will
conduct periodic supervision of resettlement and report to upper level
agency.
In the overall framework there will be continuous flow of
information on a regular format from the village level to the PRO and
periodic supervision and verification by the PRO. All levels of the
resettlement organization will therefore participate in the integrated
monitoring mechanism.
2) Indicators to be Monitored
* Payment of compensation to PAPs
* Allotment of house plots
* Reconstruction of private housing
* Relocation of the enterprises
* Relocation of infrastructure and public buildings
* Scheduling of the above
* Conformity of the above with the provisions of the RAP
* Adequacy of participation of (and consultation with) the PAPs
during implementation
* Staffing, training, work schedule and effectiveness of local ROs
3) Personnel
The staffing of resettlement organizations and their training is
presented in Chapter 6, section (c). Staff that will be responsible for
monitoring and data processing are as follows:
65



Table 9.1  Personnel of Resettlement Organizations Involved in Monitoring
Resettlement Organizations  Regular Staff  Total Staff during Peak
Period
1              PRO                     5                 30
2             CLMBs                    26                52
3              TROs                    129              258
4       Village Administration         564              1128
5  Independent Monitoring Organize.     8                16
4) Purpose and Responsibility
Overall responsibilities of the resettlement organizations were
listed in Chapter 6. Monitoring responsibilities of the PRO are listed
below:
* Set up the resettlement office, train staff to investigate the project
affected area.
* Facilitate the appointment of the IMO to provide consulting
services to the PRO and to the survey design institute during population
surveys.
v Conduct a survey jointly with the survey design institute, at the
same time with the preliminary design of the alignment.
* Train the county ROs, and provide guidance in the preparation of
RAPs.
. Receive the input from county ROs while preparing the RAP for
the project.
* Review the county RAPs for their conformity with the project
RAP.
*Supervise the information campaign for the PAPs and the
preparation of the RIB.
* Receive grievance and appeals from the PAPs and handle their
problems.
B) Independent Monitoring
The IMO will base all its structured monitoring activities on the
census data compiled by the survey design institute and utilized by the
resettlement organization.
66



1) The Independent Monitoring Organization(IMO)
The PRO invited NRCR as the IMO for the PRO. The contract will
be signed. NRCR is the first national research institute for project
resettlement in China, and has many experiences in resettlement strategy,
planning, design, implementation, monitoring, evaluation, management,
etc. NRCR  has undertaken to prepare RAPs, and independence
monitoring and evaluation for more than 10 projects the Bank loaned.
The monitoring staff of NRCR includes 16 experienced members,
including Professors, lecturers, Ph.Ds, and Masters. See Annex 8 for
detailed information of the staff, and Annex 7 for outline of independent
monitoring and evaluation.
2) Responsibilities
NRCR acts as an independent advisor to the PRO. NRCR will
monitor and evaluate the implementation of RAP, and give advices and
suggestions.
NRCR has visited the affected area and gotten some information on
standards of resettlers' living, and will also conduct the following
activities.
Standards of Living Surveys(SLS):
Methodology:  NRCR will conduct an overall baseline survey, a
baseline SLS on a random sample of PAPs and a control group in order
to compare the living level of the monitored resettlers' households with
non-resettlers' households. SLS will be done once a year to measure the
change in the standards of living of the PAPs. This activity will be one
of several approaches to determine the changes in the living standards of
the PAPs. Open ended interviews with the PAPs and observational
methods will also be utilized to supplement and guide the structured
interview format.
* Development and testing of the Questionnaire: The
questionnaires for the SLS have been tested in the base-line partial
survey, and will be revised based on actual condition, in order to capture
the quantitative and qualitative measures of standards of living.
* Sample size of different groups of PAPs and the Control Group:
10% of PAPs of house acquisition
25% of PAPs of land acquisition
67



Regularlv monitoring
[MO will survey on samples of the resettlers' households once a
year and monitor the following activities through observation and open
ended interviews with PAPs:
* payment of compensation and its levels;
* selection of resettlement sites
* house reconstruction;
* land readjustment
* infrastructure relocation;
* removal of PAPs;
* demolishing old houses;
. scheduling of the above;
* living standard of resettlers;
* resettlers psychology;
* organization of the resettlement network.
Public Consultation
IMO will participate in public consultation meetings held at the
village and township level during preparation of RAP or implementing
of resettlement. Through participation in these meetings IMO will
evaluate the effectiveness of the PAPs' participation.
These activities will continue during and after the implementation
of resettlement.
Grievance Issues
IMO will regularly visit sites and inquire about the grievance issues
by interviewing the ROs receiving the grievances and also by
interviewing the PAPs. Effectiveness of the grievance resolution
framework will be constantly monitored and if necessary suggestions
will be made for possible changes in the procedures to make the process
more effective.
3) Procedure
. prepare outline for monitoring and evaluation;
* prepare survey outline and forms, recording card of sample
villages and households;
* design template survey plan
68



* base-line survey
* establish monitorinp and evaluation information system;
* monitoring survey:
0 local social-economic survey
(Z monitor resettlement implementation organizations
C3) monitor typical villages
(D monitor typical households
* arrange monitorinz data, establish data-base
* comparing analysis
* develop monitoring and evaluation reports every year
69



10. REPORTING
A) Internal Reporting
Frequency
From the beginning of resettlement implementation, TROs should
submit progress report at least once in a month to CLMBs, and CLMBs
should submit progress report at least once in a month to PRO.
Summary reports are required after the completion of implementation
phases. Continuous reports are required for special condition. The
statistic reports(implemnentation, progress, and funds) are required every
3 months.
Formats
* Statistic Reports
The statistic reports should follow the requirements of World Bank.
The PRO provides to implementation organizations, and implementation
organizations distribute them downward. The reports are submit upward
regularly. The report format is divided into two parts: Firstly, the
illustration of the land and house acquisition, resettlers relocation,
compensation funds installment, and so on. Secondly, forms to summary
the statistical data of the past 3 months, showing the comparison
between the planning quantity and the actual quantity of land and house
acquisition . the compensation funds, etc.
. Progress Reports
The progress reports should consist of illustration and forms.
B)  PRO's Reporting Responsibility
Responsibility and Frequency
PRO should submit a resettlement progress report to World Bank
once a year by Jan. 31 of each year.
Contents
* progress of land and house acquisition
* compensation rates, and compensation funds installment
* house relocation
70



* rehabilitation
* staff training
C) VI'.J lM' R t
Frequencv
The IMO should carry out monitoring and evaluation once a year,
and submit monitoring and evaluation reports to World Bank through
PRO.
In accordance with the requirement of World Bank, the frequency
of survey is twice a year since the resettlement implementation.
Monitoring and evaluation survey should be carried out in every June
and December, and corresponding reports should be submitted by
October. The implementation of land and house acquisition, resettlement
will finish in June 1999. There will be S times of independent
monitoring and evaluation on resettlement.
Contents
* resettlement base-line survey
* progress of land acquisition and resettlement
? availability and utilization of compensation funds
a house demolishing and relocation
- infrastructure relocation
* land adjustment of the village affected by land acquisition
* living standard of PAPs
- evaluation on the operation and efficiency of resettlement
agencies
* psychology survey of PAPs
* existing problems and suggestions
Formats
The reports of independent monitoring consist 3 formats-
illustration, forms, and pictures.
71



11. ENTITLEMENT MATRIX
Table 11.1     Entitlement Matrix
PAPs of Land Acquisiti Compensation:
( I)Land Loss :108000--144000RMB/ha
(2)Resettlement:90000--240000RM B/ha
(3)Standing Crops:9000--12000RMB/ha
Compensation and      I )Compensation Rates for House
Assistance tor Private  Buildin2:320-400RM B/m2
Households              Single-story House:230--290RNMB/m
Simple Structures: 12ORMIB/m-
2)Compensation Rates for Attached Structure
Pigstv:200RMB each
Walls:20)RMB/m
Outdoor Cement Ground:20RMB/m-
Sto\ e: 100RIMB each
Well:800RMB each
Manure Pit: IOORMB each
Toilet:200RMIB each
Fruit rree:300RMB each
Big Tree:60RMB each
Small Tree:3()RMB each
Water Pit:50RMB each
Structure for Vegetable Grovth:50RMB/m2
3)Transportation Allowance :300RMB/HH
4)Cost of Getting water. power. road of the
new houses. and of leveling the Cield
5)Ne\ residence bases provided by village
6)PAPs can move into their new house earlier
than scheduled date and they may get a bonus
of 500RMB/HH
Villages Affected by    I )Irrigation:22500--30000RMB/ha
Acquisition          2)Subsidv for state-ordered grains: 15000--22500RMiB/ha
Compensation tor      I )Compensation Rates for Public structure
Collectively Owned     Structure:230--400RMB/m2
Assets                  Simple Structures: 12ORMB/m2
2)Compensation Rates for Attached Structure
Pigsty:200RMB each
Walls:20RMB/m
Outdoor Cement Ground:20RMB/m2
72



Sto\e: IOORMB each
Well:SOORMB each
Manure Pit: IOORMB each
Toilet:20ORMB each
Fruit Tree:3O)(RMB each
Big Tree:60RMB each
Small Tree:30RMB each
Water Pit:5(RMB each
Structure for Vegetable Growvth:50R\MB/m
Village of Relocated
Housap-ehot'Reld cated    Reclain tee oMbformer residence bases of relocated households:l(0ORMB/iiH
Households
AtTected To\wnship   Villages Construction:30000--750000RN1B.iha
Atlected Countr       I )Vegetable Derelopment: 150000--I 8000ORMB/ha
2)Group Di\ ision:45000--60000RhMB,ha
3)Land o\\nership Chanve:2000ORMBNBha
4)Land Restoration:30000RNIB/tia
i)Funds tor agriculture to non-agriculture activities: 60000RMB/ha
5)Preparin2 fee o tlocal Mechanism: 15000-- 19700RMB/ha
6)Mana2ement fee of local Mechanism: 15000--29300RMB/ha
Ovnership ot         I )Grade 2 Communication Line: I OOORMIB/KNv
Infrastructure Title  2)Grade 3 communication Line:60000RMB/KM
3)Communication Line:30000RMB/KM
4)Receiving Apparatus for Satellite Signal:5000ORMB each
Acquisition of       Xiaogou Village. Beiliu Township           Stone pit          50000RMB
Land or Structure    Shizongtou Village. Zhoucun Township      Stone pit           IOOOOORMB
Xifenggou. Lizhai Towvnship              Coal mining         9000ORMB
Don2tenggou. Nancun Towvnship            Coal mining         180000RMB
Nanyu Village. Daqi Tou~nship             Brick field        180000RMB
Bianzhuan_. Xiuwu Count'                 Stone pit           50000RMB
Changtun Village. MengzhuanLy Too.nship    Lime powkder factory 688900RMB
Weibei. Fantun Township                  Forging Factor-,    192300RMB
DongmiaoVillage. Gaoping Tow%nship       Wire Factory        464400RMB
Longu.angmiao Village. Slian County      Wood process factor 1691)0ORMB
Yanzhuang Village. Jiunu Township        Brick tield         69600RMB
73



Annex 1 Affected Villages
| ProvinX Mun~icaij County   !TOwnship Village
Shanxl Jincheng Yangcheng| Beiliu   IXiaogou.Guangbt,Chongshang
Zezhong  [Zhoucui  Liyang,Chuanhe
Lizha,xian Nancen,Qiuquang,Xifenggou.Lizhai
Nancunzh Dongfenggou.Fuotou.Yangzhang
Qaqixiang Nangou,Nanyu.Nanhedi.Puotou
Nanhexi Yietou,Shifeng
Futou    Xiietou.Yangiiashang.Fanqudui.Zhaize
_Lulou   Zhangdonghe.Xijiao.Dongshugou,Huangwei.Nanshao
Henan Jiaozuo  Xiuwuxian Xichen   Taoyuan.Peizhuang,Jinlingpuo
Anshang Xigoucui,Bianzhuang,Wujiatai
_____.__ Fangzhua Sangwan,Anzhang,Chizhang
Gezhenzhuang,Gouwan,Hezhang,Mazhuang,Xiaoluoying,Mengcun,
Xinxiang  Huixian    Baobi   Zhangquanhe.Guanliuhe
Jitun    Baicaogang
Zhugiu   Yisancun
Zhaogu  Anzhuang,Zhangzhuang,Hanying,Zhaogu.Zhaoguxi.Miaogu.Huamu
Beiyunme Dahuamu.Zhonggi
Huqiao   Qingxiafuo.Peizha,Liuxiaozhuang.Dongxiaozhuang
Mengzhu Changtun,Zhengtun.Fantun.Mengfen
Changcun Wangounpu.xilianyan
Xinxiangxia Luwangfe Wangmen.Guoliu
We,hu,    Tangzhua Penyao,Dasima,Houzhuang ,Gangcao
Taigongg Dongsimen
Andu    Jinggang,Xiedao
Dunfangd Biganmiao.Juntun.Huangtugang
Niwan    Wupuo.Wangcun
Shanglec Shicun.Dongguancun.Zhaocun.Duanzhang
Pangzhai Pangzhai.Liuwei
yanplnxian  Fengzhua Kouzhuang,Houzhuang,Feiwang
Mazhuan Changxin
Changyuan Dingluan Dushaqiu,Yangshaqiu.Caoshaqiu
Chengliacun.Xizhanggongzhai,Dongzhanggongzhai,Shejliazhuang,
Shejia   Zhaojiacun.zhaijiacun
Zhaodi   Dazhai
Wuqlu   Huichi. Yuzhai, houzhifang,Sanyicun
Anyang  huaxian   Bapuodia Shahutuo.Yanhetun.Luotang,Xintou
Jiaohu   Koushangcun,Mancun.huzhuang,Hezhuang
Shanggu Luyizhai
Beilizhuang,Houzhao,Gaozhuang,Yuanzhuang,Beiyuanzhuang,
Cizhouzh Yehedao
Gaoping  Houxiecun,Houhucun,Miaoqiu,Zhongdamiao.Liutan.Zhoutan,Xiaotao
Shang Hezediqu Dongmingx Zhangzha Xindongpucun
Shawuo Gaoqiangcun.Liulicun.Wangxinzhuang
Yuwuo   Gaoman.Yuzhouii,Jiliying
Gaoguanyingcun,huanglukou,Gaolinzhai,Huzhuang,Liqiaozhuang,
Huzhuang Lijingzhuang
Xinzhaizhuang,Fanhaicun,Huangmiao,Caozhuang,Ehutaoli,Fuzhuan
Heze      Erlangmia g,Zhangzhuang
Malingga Liufang,Zhaolou,Yangmaozhangcun.Ronglou.Houbaicun.Lishe
Helong   Gezhenwangcun.Jiangloucun.Douzhuang
Jindi    Zhengqiao.Maohai,Leizhuang,Mazhuan, Liucheng,Liuruiyu.Fanzhua
Xiyaozhuang,Xidawangzhuang,Wanghongzhuang,Qiaolou.
Dingtao   Dengji   Zhangguoyu,Caolou
Maji    Dingiou.Renzhang,Linwa.Feilizhuang,Xuzhuang
Nanwang SongliiDawanzhuang,Shenzhuang,Songliu,Changzhai,Qizhuang
Page 1 of Annex 1



.             ~~~~~Liuzhuangzhai,Nanmalou,Shiloumiao,Zhunairniaocun,
Tianji   Junzhangzhuang
_ _ ~~Hanzhuang,Zhouwa,Lidaqiao, Shuyangzhuang,Shenlou,
Caoxian   Guyingji Yangzhuanacun,Miloucun
Yanzhuang,Jiazhuang ,biaogezhuang, Yaniou,Csolou,Yinzhung ,Men
Chengwuxi Jiunuxianc gzhuangcun
Longwangmiao, Kuangzhuang,Xiaolulou, Fuzhuang, Yuozhuang,
Zhilou   Xuezhuang
Kangji   Gaozhuang,Shaolou
Yuezhailou,Tiangongmiaobeilizhuang,Suzhuang,Shenjialou,Wangji,
Tiangong Huolou,Bailou
Qiancaolrwang,Houcaoliwang,Koulizhuang,Zhengzhuang,Xupenyao,
Sunsi   Xieyuanliulou
Shanxian  Dabihai  Gemiaocun,Xiaosihai.Gezhuangcun
Liufanpengcun,Pangloucun,Jizhuangcun,Fengdiancun.Songloucun,
Libanzhu Zhouzhuangcun,Shidiancun
Dinglou  Jialou,Wuzhuangcun,Chenlizhuang.Xiaolizhuang,Liuzhuang
Dashaheli Linchang
Shenzhuang,Baizhuang,Yanzhuang.Huayuan,Houhuayuan,
Huavuan Qianwangliu
Tianzhuar Xiaomengdiancun
Sunliuxiar Duanloucun.Qianyangjuan
Luozhuan Xiangyang
Tanglian,Zhupuolou,Huang'erlou,Louxizhuang.Dongiongwangmiao,
Longwan Longwangmiao.Chenzhuang .Dasulou,Huimiao.Shenlou
Caitang  Xinyangmiao,youmiao.Chuzhuang
Wangxiao Wanqxiaozhuang
Wangdalou.Luji,Huanglou,Tongzhuang,Liulou.Guolou,Zhanghuayua
Zhuji   n. yanzhuang,Wanggang
Anhui Huaibei  Xiaoxian   Liu'anlou Dinghuayuan.Dingsicun
Yanglou  Peizhuang,Huazhuang
Liutao   Guanji.Changlou
Huanahe Zhaolou
FDuanyuan Weian,Qicun,Qizhuang,Yaolou
Suzhou  Lingbixian Xialouxian Caikuangcun,Caitangcun.Zhongxiecun,Sanioucun.Hubeicun
Chaoyan Qiloucun.Yuanyichang,Liangzhuangcun
Lilou,Dailou,Wusuolou,Shaolou.Zhuhecun,Wanggoucun.Jiangji,
Jiangs Xuzhoou Fengxian  Wanggou Chengji
Shanlou Liulou,Miaochengji
Liuwanglo Liutiwan.Gebacaoli,Xinzhuang.Wangpinglou.Suixinzhuang
Huanglou,Weizhuang,Wafang,Zhaozhuang,Zhuangyuan.Xiangtianji,
Songtou  Lichuangji.Jianggiaocun
Dashahe Baiyimiao.Liuzuolou
Taolou   Fanzhuang
Zhongji,Maotou,Sunzhaiqinwangsi,Sunzhaiqufangsi,Puolou,Malukou
Lizhai   , Dizhuang,Qianji
Lianzhai Silou.Hong'aniou,Liuzhuang.Yaoliwang,Xigaotou.Jiadi
Yuanzhuang,Lutaozhuang,Hanzhuang,Luozhuang,Wanghuangzhua
Fanlou   ng, Jingzhuangcun.GuoGicun
Toushanxia Heqiao   Maxingcun,Xiaozhuangcun.Zhangji,LizhuangTulou.Zhuanglizhai
Huangji  Chenlou,Lulou
Liuji    Yangzhuang,Dongfeng,Dingmeng,Wangtao.Xinjian
Haozhai,Ya'ngqun,Shatang,Houlou,Yanghezhai.Zhangjing,TuIou,Yi'a
Dapeng  n,Wangmen
Zhaoshancun,Huyao,Dongyan,Banjing,Haniou,Hangou,
Hanwang) Hushanyangniuchang, Yanghuchang,Yangjichang
Sanpu   Taishang,Yuzhuang,Haihu,Sibao,Maozhuang,Liuzhuang,Shigiao
Chaohucun,Xiahucun,Shuangjing,Paifang,Tangzhangnongchangdi,
Tangzhan Xinzhuang.Liutangcun,Hedong
Liangtang,Ercheng,Chengtou,Shuikou,Diandong,Zhaishan,Yanglou,
Zhangii  Zhangji,Linchang,Hanzhuang,Banshan,Yangwa.Hetou
Page 2 of Annex 1



Xianshu'erchensangyuan
Maocunxi4Zhaozhuang,Gangtoucun.Nanyuancun.Renzhuang
DahuangaJingshancun.Dahuangshancun.Xizhucun,Xiazhuanacun,Zhengzhua
Dawuzhe Wazhuanccun.Xiazhuanqcun
Damiao  Damiaocun.Houtaocun.Qiantaocun
Luzhuangcun,Muiaocun,Xiamacun.Dengzhuangcun.Dongjladadui,
\Wushao  Xiazhana
Guoli   Lutaicun,Tulongcun,Linchangcun
Fanqcun Shangwangcun,Yangloucun.Doujiacun
Sanloucun,Shuanggoucun,Mengweicun.Danq:aocun.Jiwancun,
Suiningxian Shuangg zhuyingcun
Sutang   Chathucun,Niantoucun
Wangji  Yangjicun
Luanshan Weizhuangcun,Yangahuangcun.Huangshancun,Caowolicun
Gaojil    Mazhuanghe,Hewancun.Sunmiaocun,Qiyicun,Yuanioucun
Yuanxiaoloucun,Jinzhuangcun,Liloucun,Weizhuangcun,Luwacun,
ZhujiL   Yuandiancun,Machangcun,8changdadui
Zhulou   Paifangcun.Zhongzhuchang,Shuwelcun,Diaoqiaocun
Houloucun,Dayangcun,Dayu,Xiangdian,Liaogang,Xinzha,Chenglou.
Qiuli    Lidian.Qiuji,Humiao.Nongke.Wangke
Wanglin  Nongchang
Chengticun,Xiaweicun,Linglongcun.Liweicun .Qigancun.Sunxue,
Lingchen Yongfeng,Yongmuo
Dalucun.Longji,Zhudaguang,Yanghecun,Chengzhuangcun.Qinwe,cu
Suqian   Suyuxian  Longhe  n,Daluocun
Luowei  Guozhuangcun,Guxicun.Gulucun
Sihongxian Chenji   Renbaocun.Chengzhongcun.Caizhatcun.Siliucun.Shewangcun
Zhoush!.Xiezhuang,Zhanggao,Qianjln,Shengzhuang,Zhouli.WangqI
Siyangxian Tuyuan  ng, Jiangwei,Jiefang,Qiaokou.Erli,Nongjichang
Maojicun,Gengdongcun.Zhongyangcun,Wuweicun,Jiangzhaicun,
Zhongyan Liufangcun,Gaoweicun
Linchaich Lingqiaocun,Erlicun
Chengxax  Yaoweicun.Bohucun
Chenghe,Qingguang,Zhangfang.Panzhuang,Chenqing,Nongke.Luji,
Lui     Daizhuan ,Huangzhuang .Xingzhuan ,Qiuzhuan .Xuezhuang
Dazhongcun,Nidongcun,Wanzhuangcun,Chenji,Sanlian ,Wafang,
Peiwei  Chenzhuang,Hepingcun
Xinvuan  Sanxucun
Huangwe Yanweicun
Huaiyin  Huaiyinxian Nanwuji  Huatsicun.Jixicun.Nongkecun.Wujicun.Xiaohebeicun
Gaochengcun,Gaozhuangcun,xinshengcun,Chenjicun,Fuhecun,
Nanchenji Hedongcun
Gauyan  Yezhuangcun,Huaifengcun.Zhangzhoucun
Huaiyinshiq Wudun   Huzhuangcun,Gaokuacun,Tangzhuangcun,Yanjicun
Xizhaocun.Dalicun.Zhihe,Yanhe,Guanzhuangcun,Yaowancun,
Yanhe   Baimahunongchang
Zhouwancun,Huayuan,Yueyuan,Dataozhuang.Taozhuangcun,
Huai'an    Sanbao  Shatancun,Xincun.Chenzhuangcun
Wudongcun,Gaobeicun,Zhangzhuang,Dayaozhuang,Tanzhuang,
Shanhezh Jiudianzhuang,Qianrencun,Shanghecun
Page 3 of Annex 1



Annex 2 Social and Economic Information of Affected Counties
Rural   Number  Arable  Industrial&Agri  Industrial   Agricultual Income Per Arable   Arable  Industrial&Agri
of Rural         cultual Output   Output     Output     Farmer            Land Pe cultual Output
Province  County  Population                                                                          Land Per  Rural
Labor            Value(million Value(million Value(million   Each       Population Value    Pe
Population  Force  Land(ha)    RMB)         yuan)      yuan)    Year(yuan) Capita(ha)  (ha)    Capita(yuan)
Shanxi   Yangchen   395695    347890  265600 37100.00        3383.93     3175.86      208.07      2038     0.09      0.11        8552
Zezhong    509385    463260  191782 47960.00        6023.03     5700.06      322.97      2256     0.09      0.10       11824
Henan   Xiuwuxian   275685    232174  108200 23946.67        4158.43     3607.88       579.7      1681     0.09      0.10       15084
Huixian    761374    671654  301700 57900.00        9608.04     7780.92     1827.12      2002     0.08      0.09       12619
Xinxiangxi   87088    51624   21400  2920.00         590.95      512.07       78.88      2528     0.03      0.06        6786
Weihui     468093    375425  175000 38090.00        6328.11     4753.68     1574.43      2019     0.08      0.10       13519
yanjinxian   439269    394676  154600 41680.00      2267.01     1281.45      985.56      1689     0.09      0.11        5161
huaxian    1156400   1111700  482000 113330.00      5401.82    2853.21     2548.61       1512     0.10     0.10C        4671
Changyua   739140   685021  308100 57900.00         3161.46     1959.99     1201.47      1772     0.08      0.08        4277
Shangdon Dongmin.   661014    593669  253525 68510.00        2083.99     1007.26     1076.73      1317     0.10      0.12        3153
Heze      1201585    975845  448006 83347.00        7145.88     5637.84     1508.04      1373     0.07     0.09         5947
Dingtao    499114    462406  275576 50497.80           1599        350        1249       817      0.10     0.11         3203
Caoxian    1355600   1255900  748468 104000.00       5168.6    3432.66      1735.94      1408     0.08     0.08         3813
Chengwu    615800    544600  324100 49664.00        2961.54     1000.87     1071.59      1772     0.08     0.09         4809
Shanxian   1121000   1023000  460158 97800.00       3516.39     2680.36      836.03      1682     0.09     0.10C        3137
Jiangsu  Fengxian   1021396    932232  462300 85700.00          5340       3830        1510      2162      0.08     0.09         5228
Toushanx  1303000   1157000  516200 115200.00         16710      14360        2350      2770      0.09      0.10       12824
Suiningxia  1221200   1127200  574360 99600.00        7990        6450        1540      2121      0.08     0.09         6543
Suyuxian    921000   891179  448100 72050.00        5053.75    3868.96      1184.79     2010      0.08     0.08         5487
Sihongxia   975296    849022  455100 103666.67      3813.22    2222.04      1591.18     1955      0.11     0.12         3910
Siyangxia  1108518   1016000  484456 74400.00       4497.72    2991.01       1506.7     1654      0.07     0.07         4057
Huaiyinxi   805669    727339  349360 64634.60       3514.08      2403.7     1110.38     2022      0.08     0.09         4362
Huaiyinsh   281403    160133   92600 13230.001      1161.181    921.72      239.46      2666      0.05     0.08         4126
Huaian    1189173  1040301  527652 80754.53         6490.49    4278.72     2211.77      2548      0.07     0.08         5458
Anhui   Lingbixian  1059720    993815  488697 120751.00      3831.21     2702.22     1128.99      1392     0.11      0.12        3615
Xiaoxian   1214937   1116881  509487 97488.00       7988.86     7037.48      951.38      1613     0.08      0.09        6576



Annex 3.1 Distribution of Permanent Land Acquisition _ 
__   Number Paddy Dry    Uncultl Orcha Wood               Land Per Land per    Number of Nuber of
capita   laborer     population affected
County  Township Village    of                  vated             Others Total -before               affected lao
avquisition beoe     by lend lao
towers  Field  Farm,  Landi rd   land           - .. mrrl     acquisition _ar.ni,.,tin,horile
Shanxi ---6 110 00  -29 60' -385  0589  0. 59   0 00  34 93                               ____-
Yan.gcne Berliu   _Xiaogou      3          3 89_                           0 89-    1 30         2.10     066.   0 42
Guangbl        2           0.59                          -059       1 43        3.71 _    4       01
Zezhou -Zhoucui -Chongshani     3          0 59         0        _30       0 89        -         3.5 10   0.54    0 29
-   LiYan           3       -  0 89                            0 89      1 93        3 95     0 46.   b22
Chu nfhe       25                                         0.59.    2 42       5!;35      024.    11
Lizht'ianaanlNa ncen    4           0 89   0 30     _     _         1.18.    2 46        6.12     0 036    015
.Q,6uquan             3       ___ 9 __                           08        2.32       -5.42     038    0.16i
Xifen          5           148-               -            148      18          49         8       3
g9o                                                   08576                 49       0 8     0.19
Lizttal        3'          089-           '7o8___-6--~-- 
acnZhr Dongg2oUZh.     .     . 89089                                      1.95        5.31     0 46.  0.1-,7,
Fuotou  -       I          0.30         -    -            0. 30     1 76        6.54     0.17    00Os
- Yanzhu]ang    .3           0 30        0 59              0689      _2064        9.38     043      009
ODacixiang Nangou        9          1 18   1 48     _     _         2.66     1 30        48        0.91i     028
Nanyu          3           0.30  0.59.   ___0.89.    1 00                       3.58     0.30.   0 08
Nanh,edi       3       -  0 89                            0 89      1 32        8 03     0 67    015
Putotu        1           03            _30               0        16          60       0.18    004
Awheiii Yietou  5~14.                                        1.Q1 83    3.82      081     039
Nahei lietou   2-059                                           0 9    2.7           47        01202
-Futou. ietuieg03 __                        4                           _.                         0.2o    0 oo
.Yangtrashlar       4          118s                            1 18       36--       5.5 ___  036    02
-   Fangudul        2          0 59                            0 59      2.39       4 46      0 25.   013
Zhaize         5           1 48                           1.48      2.05        5.19     0.72    0.29
Futouiincfha   a           2 37                           2 37
Liukou   zhang1ianh(    6           1.78                            1 78     2 46        8 15     0 72    0.22
.Xjiao_               14         -4 14                           -4 14_    1 80        5.25.    2.30    0.79
--pogs"t:    2         -0.5~9                           059_   2.60.         599 __  0 23.   0.10
_Huanq-ie_  5_ __           148_                            1 48- - 2.62  _    6.12       057    0.24
Nanfa        a          2__37                           2.37     2.89        825       0.82    0.29
Hen'an                 .      412-  100_ 11 5.74   8 44- 000  0.00-       0151
Xiiuwuxia Xichlen   Taoyuatt   15-         444                              444      21          5.52     2 01    0 80
-PeizIluang     5.         1.48_                           1 48     1 -39       3.47      1 07    0.43
-     Jinlingpuo     14          4.14                            4.14.    3 67        9.18      1.13    0.45
_Anshtang Xigou          4          1.18                            1.18.    4 47       11 18      0 26    0.11
Stanzhuanj     3_          0.89.                          0.89      2.01        5.03     0.44    0118
Wfulatai       4          I_ ~1.18                        118      2.11       -535,    0.56    0.22
..Fangzh1uarSangwan       3-         0.89.                           089      2.41        6.02      0.37    0.15
A~nzhuaflg      4          1.18                            1.18     0. 76       1.83     1~55    065
-  . Chizhuang      4           1.18-                          1.18-    1.98f        5.11 0- .60    0.2i3
Hwxran -Beobi   GezhenzhLu      2          0.59.059-    1 55'   -345-    0.38'   017
Gouwan         6           1.78-                          1 78      1.53        3.41     1 16    0.52
Hezhruang       I-         0.3                            0.30      1 54        3.44     0.19'   009
Mazhuang       4           1.18                           1.18      1 51        3.41     0 78    0 35
Xiaoluoying    3           0.89                           089       15          3:42     1358_  0.26
_Mengeun       6           1.78                           1,78_    155           46_    1 14 ~   051
ZhangquaN    4  ~ ~ ~ ~                ~18    53                 3 40   0.77  0 35
-   Guantruhre      3-         089089                                    158        3.55-    056_  _0.25
Jitun    B6aicaogang-    6          1 78                           1.78,    186    -414           0 95    043
Zhuq:u   Yisen  1         0.30~~~~~~~-                   0 30   - 155          342      0.19    009
Zhaogu   Anzf,ua~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    4  118  *     118      131~~~~~~~i  2.73     0.91    0.43
-Zhangzhuar     3      _ 0.89                              0.89     1.36        2.66     065    0 33
Hanying        3          0.6*08           .              089       1.32        2.70     0.67_   0 33
,Zhaogu         1         -0.30                        __0.30       1-26!       2.73     0,24    0.11
-  Zhaoguxi       ~     ~    ~~~4 11 is                       1.18.    1.7         26       08      04
-~Mraou          5-         14848                             68      129        2.677     1 14.   0-55
'Huamu          3.    ___                                 -089_    1.28         2.65--  0869-    0.33
_ ~~~~~~~~~~3                  0.89                            08        .9         24        .10
_Beyunmer Oahuamnu         3            .909                                    I0           .5      01      036
Zhouqi         8           237      ---                              08         2.4-2-    2,.2-0   0.98
_Huqiao   gingxarauo     2          0.59.059.                                 13f3-      2.2        59    0,27
Li-uxiaozhua    3          0869                           0.89      100         .21     0.89    0.40
...  .       zh      2         -0.59.                          059       0~99    _ 2.19       0.60    0.27
~~nqh   4hnq~                       1:18                            1:18  _0.73          1.43      1 62    0.83
ZhoK un    5           1.48                           1.48      0.74        1.43     2.01    1 03
4  I                            ~~~~~~~~.18  0.71    1.40      1 66    0.85
Meder-         4           1:18.                          1.1       0.72 .      1.41     1864    0 84
-  ChangcunWangcunpu  ~     ~~4 118               .1.18 _    1.47                      3.33.    0680    0.36
.   Xilianyaon      8           1.78-                            i  1.78 142         325      125    0 55
Xi.nxisa~Nwijngfer wangmen      8           1.78                           -178      0.99       2.57      1.79.   069
Guottu         6           1.78.                          1.78      0.98       2.26      1.81    0780
WehtTangzftuar Penyao      14          4.14                            4 14'    2.14        5.54      1~94    0.75
Dasirma        8           1.78                           1.78      2.38       6.88      0.75    0.26
Houzhtuang     2          0~59.                           0.59      1332        3.21     0.44    018
Gang-a         3     ~    0.89                            0869      2.30       6.50      0 39    0.14
Taiono  Dnsimen      4          1.1.8                         -1.18      1 70-    -3.54       070    03
Page  ot Annx



AnCu    Jinggang        3         0.89                          0 89      2.23       3.88     0 40    0.23
Xiedao         3         0 89                           0.89     2.66       3.82     0,33    0.23
Dunfangdi Biganmiao    2          059                           0.59      1.82       5.05     0.32    0.12
Juntun         3         0.89                           0.89     2.62       5.07     0.34    0.18
Huangtugar     2         0.59                           0.59     1.75       4t10     0 34    014
Niwan    Wupuo         6          178                            178      189        2.88     0 94    0.62
Wangcun        6          1.78                          1.78     2.23       5.09     0.80    0.35
Shicun         3         0 89                           0.89     2.03       6.34     0.44    0.14
Pangzhai Dongguanzl    4          1 18                          1.18      216        5.52     055    0.21
Zhaocun        5         148                            1.48     1.69       4.30     0.88    0.34
Duanzhuani     6         1 78                           1.78     2.31       5 54     0.77    0:32
Shanglect. Pangzhai    7          2.07                          2.07      1 01       2.67     2,05    0.78
Liuwe,        10         2.96                           2.96     144        3.58     206    083
yanlinxia Fengzhuas Kouzhuang  3          0.89                          0.89     1.35       3.37     0.66    0.26
Houzhuang      6         178                            1.78     1.30       3.21     137    0.55
Feirwang       8         2.37                           2.37     1 32       3.35     1 79    0.71
Mazhuan Changxin       6          1 78                           1.78     1.27       3.36     1.40    0.53
huaxian Bapuodiar Shahutuo     5          1 48                          1 48     1.69       4.22     0 88    0 35
Yanhetun       6          1.78                          1.78     1.70       4.25     1 05    0.42
Luotang        3         0 89                           0.89     168        4.20     0.53    0.21
Xmngtou        6         1.78                           1.78     169        4.22     105    0.42
Jiaohu   Koushang      2          0 59                          0.59      1.55       3.88     0.38    015
Mancun         4          118                           1 18     1.56       3.90     076    0.30
Hucun          3         0.89                           0.89     1.54       3.85     0.58    0.23
Hezhuang       7         2.07                           2.07     1 55       3.88     1 34    0.53
Shanggua Luyizhai      3          0.89                          0.89      1 45       3.63     0 61    0.24
Cizhouzha Beilizhuang  5          2.37                          2.37      1.48       3.69     1 60    0.64
Houzhao        3         0 89                          0.89      1 46       3.65     0 61    0.24
Gaozhuang      3         0.89                          0 89      1 47       3.68     0.60    0 24
Yuanzhuan,     1         0.30                           0.30     1 46       3.66     0 20    0 08
Beiyuanznu     3         0 89                           0.89     1 48       3.69     0 60    0.24
Yehedao        4         1 18                           118      146        3.66     081    032
Gaop)ng  Houx,e        3          0.89                          0 89      147        368      0 60    0.24
Houhu          3         0.89                          0.89      145        3.63     061    0.24
M,aoqlu        1         0 30                           0.30     144        3.61     0.21    0.08
Zhongdamit     4         1.18                           118      145        363      0.82    033
Liutan         2         0.59                          0.59      1.44       3.61     041    016
Zhoutan        3         0 89                           0.89     1 46       365      0 61    0.24
X,aotan        2         0 59                           0 59     145        3.63     0 41    016
Changyu Dingtuan Dushaqiu      2         0.59                           0 59     1.62       4.05     0.37    015
Yangsnaq,u     3         0 89                           0.89     1 57       3 93     0 56    0.23
CaoshaQlu      1         0.30                           0.30     1.24       3.09     0 24    010
Shejta   Cheoi7a        3         0.89                          0.89      1.23       3.09     0.72    0.29
Xizhanggon     1         030                           0.30      1.23       3.08     024    0.10
Dongzhang,     2         0.59                          0.59      1.24       3.13     0.48    0.19
Sheipazhuar    4         1 18                           118      1.07       2.88     111    041
Zhaoj,acun     2         0.59                           0.59     1.15       3.08     0 51    019
Zhailpacun     2         059                            0.59     1 24       3.18     048    0.19
Zhaod   Dazhai          6         1 78                           1,78     1.22       3.50     146    051
Wuqiu   Huicn,          5  1 00         0.93                     1.93     1.20       2.99     0 84    0.33
Yuzhaa         2               0.86                     086      1 19       2.86     0.00    000
Houzhdfang     4                159                     159      1.20       2.88     0 00    0.00
Sany,Oun      10               5.06                     506      120        287      000    D.00
Shangdong                    738  000 170.25  0.00  000  000   000 170.25
Dongmin Zhangznai Xindongpu   10         2 30                           2.30     170        3.08     1 36    075
Shanggua Wangxinzht    9          2.07                          2.07     0.73        1.33     2.B4    1 56
Gaoqjang      11         2.53                          2.53      1.84       3.35     138    076
Liulicun       9         2 07                          2.07      1 72       3.13     1.20    0 66
Yuwuo   Gaoman         8          1.84                          184      2 46        4.30     0.75    043
Yuzhoupi      15         3 46                           346      1.83       3.87     1 88    0 89
Jibying       10         2 30                           2.30     2,48       5.20     0 93    0 44
Huzhuang Gaoguany,r    9          2.07                          2.07     2.25        4.46     0.92    047
Huengiukou     8          184                           1.84     2.63       5.18     0.70    0.36
Gaolinzha,     7         1 61                           1 61     1.90       3.63     0.85    0.44
Huzhuang       9         2 07                          2.07      1,71       3.33     1.21    0 62
Liqiaocun     12         2.76                           2.76     1.90       3.76     1.46    0.74
Lijmngcun      8         1.84                           1.84     1.91       344      0.96    0.54
Haze   Erlangmia. Xinzhai      4         0.92                           0.92     1 57       3.52     0.59    0.26
Fanhai         5         1 15                           1.15     1.78       3.98     065    0.29
Huangmiao      4         0.92                           0.92     1.39       3.11     0.66   0.30
Caozhuang      5         1.15                           1,15     1.62       3.63     071    0.32
Ehulaoli       6         138                            1.38     1.82       4.08     0.76    0.34
Fuzhuang       3         069                           069       1.43       3.19     0.48    022
Zhangzhuar     4         0.92                           0.92     1.19       2.67     0.77    0.35
Mallnggan Liufang      6          1,38                          1.38      1.39       3.12     0.99    044
Zhaolou        4         0.92                           0.92     2.17       4.86     0.42    0 19
Yangmaozh      4         0.92                           0.92     1 55       3.47     0.59    0.27
Rong3ou        5         115                            1.15     1.84       4.12     0.63    0.28
Houbai         2         0.46                          046       1.74       3.90     026    0.12
Lishe          6         1.38                           1.38     1.96       4.38     0.71    0.32
Hebong   Gezhenwan     2          046                           0 46      1.48       3.32     0 31    014
Page 2 of Annex3 I



J,angloucun    6           1 38                            1 38     1 55        3 46      0 89    0 40
Dongzhuan,     2           0 46                            0 46     1.71        3.83      0.27    012
Jindi    Zhengqiao       3          0 69                            0 69      1 32       2 95      0.52    0 23
Maohai         5           1 1S                            1 15     1 33        2.98      087    0.39
Letzhuang      4           0 92                            0 92     1 60        3 59      0 58    0 26
Mazhuang       5           1 15                            1 15     099         2.22      1 16    052
Liucmeng       7           1 61                            1 61     1.29        2.90      1 25    0.56
Lburuwvu       5           1 15                            1 15     1 36        3 05      0.85    0 38
Fanztuang      4           0 92                            0 92     148         3 31     0 62    0 28
Dingtao Dengii   Xiyaoznuan     4           0 92                            0 92     1 90        3.94      0 49    0 23
Xidawangzr     3           0.69                            0 69     1 88        3.91     0 37    0 18
Wanghongz      6           1 38                            1 38     1 67        3 50      0 83    0 40
qlaofou        2           046                             046      131         273       035    017
Zhangguoyt     5           1 15                            1 15     1.39        2.90     083    040
Caolou         4           0.92                            0 92     173         3 60     0 53    0.26
Mali     Oingiou        4           0.92                            0 92      1 45       2.70      0 64    0.34
Renzhuang      3           069                             069      1 15        242       0.60    029
Lnwa          3           069                             069      0.58        125       1 19    0.55
Felhzhuang     2           046                             046      1 29        2.76     0.36    017
Xuzhang        3           069                             069      190         3.72      0.36    019
Nanwangc Sonali         2           046                             0 46      169        3 48      0 27    0.13
Dawanzhua       1          0 23                            0 23     1 59        3.62      0 14    0.06
Shenznuane     4           0.92            .               092      154         3.14      060    029
Songiru        2           0 46                            0 46     162         3 31     0.29    014
Changzrai       3          0.69                            069      1 37        2 60      0 50    025
Oizhuang       4           0 92                            0 92     1 44        2.98      0 64    0 31
Tian1i    Liuznuanczi    4          0 92                            0 92     2 02        5.41      0.46    0 17
Nanmalou       2           046                             0 46     1 40        2 88      033    016
Shiloumiao     3           0 69                            0 69     2 03        3.52      0 34    0.20
Zhunaimiao     6           1 38                            1 35     1 53        2 78      0.90    0 50
Junzhangzi     2           0 46                            0 46     137         4 79      0 34    010
Caoxian Guyingp  Hanzhuang       9          2 07                            2 07     1 30        2 22      1 60    0 93
Zhouwa         4           0 92                            0 92     1 66        2 51      0 55    0 37
Licaqiao       3           0 69                            069      1 28        1.97     0 54    0 35
ShuyangznL     6           1 38                            1 38     0 99        1.48      1 40    0 93
Shenlou        5           1 15                            1 15     1 69        2 58     0 68    0 45
Yangznuant     7           1 61                            1 61     1 67        2.58     0 97    0 62
Mdloucun       61          1 38                            1 38     1 65        2 53      0 84    0 55
Chengwi Jiunuxwana  Yanzhuang    6          1 54                            1 84     2 11        3 42      0 88    0 54
Jtazhuang      6           1 38                            138      098         3.10      141    045
Biaogecun      4           0 92                            0 92     2.01        3.14     0.46    0 29
Yanlou          5          1 15                            1 15     1 36        2 09      0.85    0 55
Caolou         8           184                             154      1 97        3.23     0.94    0.57
Yinzrtuang     7           161                             1 61     1.14        1.75      1 42    0.92
Mengzhuan      6           138                             1 38     2.38        4.14     0.58    0.33
Zh4lou    Longwangrr    10          230                             230      244         375       094    0.61
Kangzhuanr     2           046                             046      245         3.77     019    012
Xkaoiulou      6           1.38                            1 38     2 77        4 34      0.50    0 32
Futhuang       4           0 92                            0 92     2.36        3 62     0 39    0 25
Yuezhuang      6           1 38                            138      2 44        4 05      0 57    0.34
Xuezhuang      5           1 15                            1 15     293         4.33      039    0.27
Kangji   Gaozhuang      6           138                             138      2 84        4 34      0 49    0 32
Shaolou        4           C92                             092      2 54        400      036    0.23
T;angongn Yuezhallou     4          0 92                            0 92     2.37        3.70      0 39    0 25
Tiangongmi     6           1 38                            1 38     1 28        2.05      1 08    0 67
BetZhangzh      1          0 23                            0 23     2 41        3.90     0 10    0 06
Supie          2           046                             046      2.32        352      020    013
Shenj(aiou     5           1 15                            1 15     2 04        3 34     0 57    0 34
Wangi,         6           1 38                            1 38     1 99        3.21     069    043
Huolou         4           0.92                            092      2.13        352      043    0.26
Baiou          3           069                             0.69     1 71        2.69     0.40    026
Sunsi    Qiancaoliwe     3          0 69                            0.69     1 37        2 15      0.50    0 32
Houcaollwai    5           1.15                            1 15     235         3.78     049    030
Koublzhuanr    5           1 15                            1 15     214         344      0-54    0.34
Zhengzrtuar     7          161                             161      2.37        376       068    043
Xupenyao       2           046                             046      211         336      0.22    0.14
Xieyuanhiulc    5          1 15                            1 15     2.24        341      052    034
Shanxiar Dalihai   Gemiaocun    4           0.92                            092      1 11        2.07      083    045
Xiaosihai      3           0.69                            0 69     173         3.22     040    0.21
Gezhuang       5           1 15                            1 15     1 43        2.58     0 80    0 45
LUbanzhua LiLuanpeng     8          1.84                            1.84     1.18        360       156    051
Panglou        9           2.07                            2 07     2.06        4.75      101     0 44
Jezhuang       5           1 15                            1 15     1 82        764       063    0.15
Fengdian       6           1 38                            1 38     1 73        4.09     0.80    0 34
Songlou        5           i 15                            1 15     1.71        4.01     0.67    0.29
Zhouzhuanc      5          1 15                            1 15     1.65        3.87     0.70    030
Shiidian       9           2.07                            2.07     1 61        3.76      1 29    0.55
Dinglou  Jialou          7          161                             161      164         2 49      0.96    065
Wuzhuang       6           1 38                            1 38     180         3.73     0.77    0 37
Chenilehuar    6           1 35                            1 38     2.06        3.19     067    043
Dashahelmnchang          7          1 61                            1 61     1 40        2 35      1 15    0 69
Page 3 of Annex3 1



_Hueyuan  ShGnzpuan__   6              .8-   .3                                 6        2.         0.85    0.50
.BaIzhuwlg            207                            ~~~~~     ~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~2.07  2.16  3 ~3  096 .95
Yanzhysnq.                 Z1 1                                     27         3. 2    -051    0.31
Huayu    .-5                181.38                                   1.46        2,20     0.5     06
-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~...-.-.   .                                                 .-  092  182   3.8   0.51    02
Tiariihuan)XIaofeildj.               1-       _____                 1.15      1.70       3.06      08      03
SunliuxianXiangyeng                   460 46                                 25          47        0.18!   0.10
_Luouen;i.0gnbanque.     2          04                              ~.4       1~          ,. 0.29,   0.18
OunnIOu         8          1 84                 __         164     .-.8.        3.83,     08      64
Longwangtangilan         7          1.62           ~_ 1862                    1.31       2.54      1.24:   0.64
__       u     -tO  -2          0.46        ______           _0.46       .11         2.03.046    0.23
-Huangreriou     7    .     16'1.62                                   1.17       2.33      1.39    0.70
Loflgxzhya                                                  .4       .8         27        0.344   0.1
*   _  _  Dor1gIongw~~~~~ --  1  023~O                           0.23     1.04        2.13     0.22    0.1
....  .Loulwngm        5_          11                              .16      1.03       2.10-    1.3      05
P hernzhuanl         4.         0193                           0.93      l.'         2.35     0.78!   0.39
Dasulou   .     9          209       .                     2.09                 2.8       1401   0.70
Huimliao        7          1,62                            168                            113     06
Shonloucun _   26                                          0.462                 tw ~    2.8  A11  0.56
_ata qNj~angmia.   _ 14         3:25        3_____               25   ~ 36           2.74     2,40    1.19
Yourniao        2    ~     0.46       _____0.46                      1l8        2.83.    0.39i   0.16
WeAxao'.i,huzhuang,                 1.6 tig____                     1'39,    1.28        2.60   1.09.    0.54
_Zhuli    Wanlgxiaozr    4.        0.093          _____             0.93      14         2.9       06       .3
Wangdfalou      4                                                               29.8 9  18 191    0.669   0.49
Luji  .    ~     ~~8 1.86                              1.86'    076         1.23    -2.45 ~1.51
__    HusnglOU        4          0.30.93                                  1,28        19        0.73    65
~~~~~ ~~~~2                0.46                      --  -0.46, .   1.14.        1.84     D.41'   0.28
___  LiuiOu__         2          0Q46    -      -_0__           .046      1.10   - 2.03  _0.42    0.23
___    uolo6                      1 39                           1.39      1.40       246       10      97
____  ZhanqlluajL  4   093        ______           0~~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~93__1.38  2.59  0.67    0.36
Yar0iang -- - 2 ~__ _ 046___                         0,481    1.61        -3.07     0.29    0.15
-   Wanggan   ~~~11       2.55      ______2.55                      1.44   _,2.86.-17i7    089q
Anilh                           67   8.06   9.75  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  17 81
Xmaoxian Liu'anllou Oin ghu____2_0 __46                _0_4r_________29
~~~~~~.. nhua___ 2                     0.46                           0.46     16 --       -5.29--   0-.2-5-  009
-Yanglou  Peizhuang      8          1.86                  _         1.86      1.83       4.49      1.01    0.41
__  Hugazluang       1          0.023                           023.    152.         4A       0.15    0.05
LiutBo    Guanji         6          1.39                            139      2.00        70        00      0.18
Changlou        6          1.39                            1.39,    1.81        5.02     0.77'   0.28
.Zhaalou             6          139      .       _ _                  _ 1.7918-      463      0.78   06.30
~~PM!.flYt~~an.WeIan  6_         1.39                __          1.39      1:65       5.32      0.84.0.26
.Oicun                 3       ___070                  __         0.70'    185         O.8       .38    0.12
,9izih-ng       4   _       .93                 _          0.93      164 . 5.07           0.57    0.18
Lingb'ia Xaalouxcian Caikuang    1  03   ..  ..                             0.3 -      .5-38               021     .0
Caitang         5   1.61_                                  1.81      1:99       4.97     0.81    0.32
Zhorpgxe        5   1.61                                   1.61      1.19F      2.98    1.3       0.84
San1ou          2   06               ,0.65_    100_                             2.49     0.65    0.26
ChaoyarOiloucun          6   1.94                        _          1.964    0.95        2.38      2.03    0.81
Yuanyidlan_    2   0.65       ____   0.65
____  Liangzhuan  ~~4 1-29           ____1.29                           1.03        2.59     1.25~  0.50
Jiara,gsu .          ~~~~10711 5226_128.82   000  9.68 301.20.8    _
Far,gx!ar_Wanrggou Lilo          5_         1,16                            1.18     1.47   _ 3.01        0.79    0.39
Dailou          5           16.          -      _          1.187    1.36        2.77     6085    0.42
WuauOIOu        9      _ 2.9_                              2.09     1.'38      '2.82'    1.51'   0.74
.- ,S~~~~'haolou             8          186                             1.86 _    1.54       3.14     1.21    0.59
Zhuheu          4             3            0.93                     13_          .2      01      03
WVa_Nggu        4.       - 093 .... .093                             1.13       2.30      0.82'   0.40
-.         ~~~~~jiAri       1          d. 23                          0.23      1.43        2.91     0.18    0.08
Chengp     11~i        2.55            .55                       162        31         .5     0.77
Staiou Liuf    ___  6               19      ______                  1.39     2.08        42       0.7      .3
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~6                     139_.1.3 ;                                       1.65         1.07    053
_!anIoLiudiwsn       10          2.3         ______~.              2_32   iA.1?...2Q.. .02
GebacaC  _    11    2~~~~~.55                       2.55     1.38        2.2      15       .9
XIrlz~~~uan  1.      _0.23                             0.23     1.35~    2.76        0.17.  0.08
___   WagpingIo       7          1.62                            1 ,.62'    1.43      2.93      1.13    0.56
SuAirinhUar     4.         0,9            _____.93                   .5         30       062     930
QN_ !u.u!Vkoy.          8            .913                                     .43        24       09      0.80
We.zhang~~~8           1.39           _ __             1.391    1.19        1.94      1.17:   0.72
Wafang  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0.70 ~~~~~~~~~0.70'         1.18       1.93      0.59!    .3
ZhaouIhuanc_   1_          023        ____                 0.23.    0.92        1.50     0.25    9.16
1.86                           1.8       09           .57     1.94.  1.18
xiomw4i             188 .           1.66188-    1.11~    1.81.    1,68:   1.03
.LCd1uaou             4           0.93                           0.93      0.88        1.44     1.06    065
-. .....  . ,Jiangoi-_     3.      .   .70.      -                    0.70.    1.43,        2.34,    0,49:   0.30
Dashafl  Baanitacm       6          1 39                            1.39      i .33      2.18      1.05    0.64
LiuZulou        7          1682       .         -          1. 12    2.21        3.6      0.74    0.46
Taotou   Fangzhtuanj     1_      .  0.23                                                 _    .3 .~ 1.85.    0.20    0.13
2hon~~i  ,   - 2       0.48'                           0.46s    0.6         1.1f4    0.7   0O41
.~~~~~~maclo                5,         1.16                            1.16      0.97       1.85S     1,20,   063
Stztiqirw       2          0,48      .        ___          0.46     0.99        1,88_    O.4   9.025
Sunztiaigu      I          0.23                            0.23     0.71        1.35     0.3     01
Page 4 of Argwx3.1



Puolou         9           2 09                           2 09      1 19        2 27      1 75    0 92
Malukou        3           0 70                           0 70      0 70        1 34      0 99    0 52
Oaizhuang      6           1 39                            1 39     1 04        198       1 34    0 70
Qianji         6           1 39                            1 39     0 57        108       2 46    1 29
LIanzJhai Silou          2          046                             046       163        315       028    0.15
Hong anlou     8           1 86                            1 86     1 01        195       1 84    0 95
Liuzhuang       1          0 23                           0 23      1 99        3 85      0 12    0 06
Yaoliwang      2           0 46                            0 46     1 28        2.48      0 36    019
Xigaolou       6           1 39                            1 39     0.74        1 43      1 88    097
di              7          1 62                            1 62     0 80        1 55      2 03    1 05
Fanlou   Yuanzrluanh     3          0 70                            070       137        2 72      051    026
Lutaocun       9           2 09                              o09    132         2 63      1 58    0 79
Hanznuang      2           0 46                           0 46      129         2.57      0 36    018
Luozhuang      4           093                            0 93      1 43        2.84      0 65    0 33
ladi           4          0 93                            0 93      1.46        2 90     0 64    0.32
Jingznuang     12          2 79                            2.79      114        2.26      2.45    1 23
Guolicun       6           1 39                            1 39     1 50        2 98      0 93    0 47
Toushan Heqiao   Maxing          7          1 62                            1 62      1 23       3 82      1 32    0 43
Xiaozhuang     10          2 32                            2 32     177         4 58      1 31    0 51
Zhangi         4           0 93                            0 93     144         3 23      0 64    0 29
Lizhuang        1          023                            023       214         380       011    006
Tulou          13          302                            302       220         5.35      137    056
Zhuangiizhr    4           093                            093       1 06        267       087    035
Huangi  Chenlou         6           1 39                            1 39      1 62       3.25      0.77    0 43
Lulou          6           1 39                            1 39     2.13        436       0.65    032
Luli     Yangzfluan!     7          162                             162       193        5 36      0 84    0 30
Dongfeng       2          046                             046       115         283       041    0.16
Oingmeng       S           2.09                           2.09      111         2 61      1 89    0 80
Wangtac        3           070                             070      1 37        3.33      0.51    021
Xinian         3           070                             070      153         418       045    017
Oapeng  Haozhai          6          1 39                            1.39     123         210       1 13    066
Yanqun          1         023                             023       130         2.88      018    009
Shatang        11          2 55                           2 55      146         3 26      175    0 78
Houlou         4           0 93                            0 93     134         3 02      0 69    0.31
Jiahezhai       5          1 16                            1.16     181         317       064    037
Zhangjng        6          1 39                            1 39     0 96        2.02      1 45    0 69
Tulou          10          2 32                            2 32     0 57        1 47      4 04    1 58
YVan            1          023                            023       133         319       017    007
Wangmen        6           1 39                            139      1 43        3 46      098    0 40
Hanwangx Zhaoshan        4          0 93                            0 93      0 74        1 61     1 25    0.58
Huyao         20           4 64                           464       106         2.01      4 37    2.31
Oongyan        10          2 32                           2.32      1 31        3.49      1 77    0.66
Sanrlng         7          1 62                            1 62     1 35        2.64      1 21    0.62
Hanlou         12          2.79                           2.79      2.59        4 77      1 08    0.58
Hangou         6           1 39                            1 39     2 67        5.51      0.52    0.25
Sanpu    Taisnang       13          3 02                            3.02      1 71       3.75      1 77    0.80
Yuzhuang       16          3 71                            3 71     1 93        412       1 93    0.90
Halhu          2           0 46                           0 46      1 71        3.75      0 27    0.12
Sibao          10          2 32                           2.32      2 03        4 86      1 14    0.48
Maoznuang       5          1 16                            1 16     199         410       0 58    0 28
Liuznuang      9          2.09                            2.09      197         4 34      106    0 46
Shiqgao        2           0 46                           0.46      163         3 46      0 25    0 13
Tangznan' Chaoou         6          1 39                            1 39     125         2 62      1 11    0.53
Xiahucun       S           1 16                           1 16      1 75        3.42      066    0.34
Shuanging     10           2 32                           2.32      1 94        5 43      1 20    0 43
Palfang        8           1 86                            1 86     152         2.16      1 23    0.86
Tangznangr      2          046                            046       125         2.54      037    018
Xinzhuang      4           0 93                           0.93      2 70        5 27      0 34    018
Liutangcun     4          0 93                            0 93      166         3 22      0.56    0.29
Herong         12          2.79                           2 79      1 86        2.96      1 49    0.94
Maccunxaz Zhaoznuanj     2  0 65                                    065      103         2.28      0.63    0.28
Gangtou        2   0 65                                   0.65      169         4 27      0 36    015
Nanyuan         1  0 32                                   0.32      1.21        2.56      0.27    013
Dahuangs Jinshan         1  0 32                                   0.32      0.81        1.59      0.40    0.20
Dahuangsh;     6   161                 032                1.94      1 14        2.26      1.70   086
Xizhucun       5   129                 0.32                1.61     0.84        2.36      191    0 68
Xiaiingcun     4   129                       _1.29                  0.79        1.86      163    069
Dawuzhen Wazhuang        4   129.                                   1.29     0.97        2.42      133    0.53
Xjtzhuang       7   194                             032   2 26      0.94        1 92      2.05    1.01
Damiao  Damiao          6   194                                     1.94     124         2.55      1.56    0 76
Houyao         4   0 97                             0.32   129      142         2.97     0.68    0 33
Qiantao        4   1 29                                   1.29      133         2.74     0 97    047
Wushao  Luzhuang         3   065                032                 0.97     1.48        314       065    031
Mumiao         2                       0 32         0 32  0.65      1 36        2.95      0 24    011
Xiamacun       5  0 32                              1 29   161      1 82        4 73     0.18    0 07
Oengzhuanr     2   0 65                                   0.65      1 62        3.60     0.40    0 18
Dongjadadt     2   0 32                             0 32   0 65     1 80        4.21      0.18    0.08
Zhangp   Liangtang       7   2.26                                   2.26     1 53        2.88      1 48    0.79
Ercheng       16  0.32   3 48                             3.80      2.35        4 66      1.62    0 78
Chengtou        1  032                                    0.32      2.03        2.99      0.16    0.11
Shuikoucun     4   1 29                                    1 29     1 25        2.48      1 03    0.52
Page 5 Of Annex3 1



Dianoong       4   129                                  1.29     2.15       4.27     0.60    0.30
Zhaishan       3  0 97                                  0 97     2.93       6.39     033    0.15
Yanglou        1  0.32                                  0.32,    2.03       2.56     0.16    0.13
Zhang)         1  0 32                                  0.32     165        3.92     0.20    0.08
Linchang       5   1 94                                 194
Hanzhuang      4  065   046                             1 11     2.35       5.21     0.47    0.21
Banshan        1  0 32                                  0 32     2.41       6 45     0.13    0.05
Yangwa         3                                 0.97  0 97      182        5.13     0.00    0.00
Heloucun       1  032                                  0.32      146        3.00     022    0.11
Xiansnuuerchensangyu.   1         0.23                          0.23
Guoji   LuLaicun        6   1 94                                1.94     2.48       6.57      0.78    0.29
Tulongcun      5                                  1.61   161     2.69       6.99     0.00    0.00
Linchang       S                     1.61               161      2.63       6.66     0.61    0.24
Fangcun  Shangwang      1                     0.32              0.32     1 64       4.58      0.20    0.07
Yanglou        1                     032                0.32     189        432      017    0.07
Doupiacun      4                     129                1.29     1.70       4.84     0.76    0.27
Suiningx: Shuanggo Sanloucun   6  065                                   0.66     3.96       8.21     0 16    0.08
Shanggao       3  065                                 Z065      4.31        8.93     015    007
Mengwei        1  0 32                                  0.32     3.51       7.27     0 09    0.04
Danqiao        1  0 32                                 0.32      371       7.68     0.09    0.04
Jiwancun       2   1 61              032                194      2.58       5.35     0.75    0.36
Zhuying        3  1.29               0 32               1.61     2.81       5.81     0.57    0.28
Sutang   Chaihu         2   1 29                                1.29     2.01        5.04     0.64    0.26
Nlantou        5   129                                  129      1.72       4.30     0.75    0.30
Wangji  Yangiicun       5   1 94                          032   2.26     165        3.17      1.18   0.61
Luanshan Weizhuang      5   1 94                                1.94     1 63       2.99      1.19    0.65
Yangzhuanr     3  097                            0.32   1 29     1.45       2.65     0.67    0.36
Huangshan      1  1 29                                  1 29     1.78       3.25     0.73    040
Caowuoli       3  065                0.32               0.97     163        2.99     0.59    0.32
Gaoji    Majicun        2                     0 32        0.32  0.66      170        3.30     0.19    0.10
Hewancun       4  0.32                           129   161       1.72       3,34     0.19    0.10
Sunmiao        2  065                                  066      2.17        421      030    0.15
Oigecun        4  0 32                           0.32  0 65      1 90       3.69     017    0.09
Yuanloucun     3  2.26                                 2.26      1.89       3.66     119    0.62
Zhuji    YuanxiaolOL    2  0 32                                 0 32     2.40       3.77      0.13    0.09
Jinzhuang      4  0.32                                 0.32      1.58       2.47     0.20    0.13
Liloucun       4   129                                  1.29     1.51       2.36     0.86    0.55
Wezhuang       4  129                                   1.29     160        2.51     0.81    0.51
Luwacun        3  097                                  097       185        2.91     0.52    0.33
Yuandian       3  0 32                                  0.32     2.03       3.18     016    0.10
Machang        3  0 32                                  0,32     218        31       015    0.09
Zhulou   Pafangcun      3  1 94                                 1.94     1.88       3.52      1 03    0.55
Zhongzhuct     I  0 65                                  0.65
Shuwetcun      3  0 32                                 0,32      1.65       3.08     0.20    0.10
Diaoqiao       1                                 0.97  0.97      1 44       2.69     0.00    0.00
Oluji    Houloucun      2  0 32                                 0.32     1.60       2.94     0.20    0.11
Dayangcun      3  194-                                  194      1.45       2.66     1.33    0.73
Dayucun        1                                 1.61   161      118        2.15     0.00    0.00
xiangdian      2                     1.61               1.61     120        2.20     134    0.73
Liaogang       1                     0.32               0.32     1 46       2.68     022    012
Xinznacun      3                     0.32               0.32     1.56       2.86     0.21    011
Cheniou        1                     1.29               1.29     1 16       2.13    111    0.61
litiancun      2  065                                  0.65      1 29       2.36     0 50    0.27
Oiuicun        1  0 32                                 0.32     0.90        1.65     0 36    0.20
Humiao         7  2.26                                 2.26      1 49       2.74     1.51    0.83
Nongke         1  032                                  032       1,30       2.39     025    0.13
Wanglou        4   129                                  1.29     153        281      064    0.46
Wangin  Nongcnang       2  0.65                                 0.65
Lingcreng Chenlicun     3  0.97                                 0 9t     1.90       3.82      0.51    0.25
Xiawei         4  129                                   129      1 39       2.79     0.93    0.46
linglong       1  0.32                                 0.32      1 99       3.99     016    0.08
Liweicun       1  o.32                                 0.32      1.21       2.43     027    0.13
Oligancun      4   1.29                                 1.29     105        2.11     1.23    0.61
Sunxue         3  0.97                                 0.91      142        2.86     0.68    0.34
Yongfeng       5  161                                   1.61     1.05       2.11     1.54    0.76
Suyuxiar Longhe  Dalucun       6   1 94,                                1.94     ' 123      3.07     1.58    0.63
Longji         1  0.32                                 02        1.13       2.83     0.28    0.11
Zhudaguanr     1  0 32                                  0.32     1.05     _ 2.63     0.31    0.12
Jiahecun       2  0.65                                 065       i 33       333      0.48    0.19
Chenzhuanr     5  1 61                                  161      1.51       3.7      1.07    0.43
Qirweicun      1  032                                  0.32      1.24       3.10     0.26    010
Daluocun       2  0 65                                 0.65      1.40       3.51     0.46    018
Lucwet  Guowea          4   1.29                                1.29    1t46        3.64     0.89    0.35
Guxicun        3  0.97                                 091t    1.60         4.00     0.60    0.24
Gulucun        2  065                                  065       182        4.55     0.35    0.14
Sihongxi. Chenji   Renba       3  0 97                                  0.97     1.55       3.66     0.63    0.25
Chenzhong      6  1994                                  194      146        3.04     133    0.64
Caizhai        1  0.32                                 0.32     0.74        1.23     0.43    0.26
Siliucun       1  0.32                                 0.32     0.59        1.31    055    0.25
Shewang        4  129                                  1.29     068         1.93     1 47    0.67
Siyanxi; Tuvuan   Zhoushi      1  0 32                                  0.32     1 82       3 79     0.18    0.09
Page 6 of Annex3. 1



Xiezhuang      3  0 97                                    0 97     132         2 75     0 73    0 35
Zhanggao       5   1 61                                  1161      150         312      1 08    0.52
Q;anjicnun     1  032                                     0 32     1 44        3.01     0.22    0 11
Shengzhuat     3  0 97                                    0 97     1.26        2.62     0 77    0 37
Zhouli         4   1 29                                   1 29     1 35        2 82     0 95    0 46
Wangqing       2   065                                    0 65     136         2.84     0 47    0 23
Jiangwei       5   1 61                                   161      1 16        2 41      140    067
Zhongyan- Maoli         5   1 61                                   1 61     2 17        4 52     0 74    0 36
Gengdong       2   065                                    065      1 73        360      0 37    018
Zhongyang      1   0 32                                   0 32     2 31        4 82     014    0 07
Wuwei          3   0 97                                   0 97     2 06        4 29     0 47    0.23
Jiangzna,      3   097                                    0.97     2 41        5 03     0 40    0 19
Liufan         2   065                                    0.65     2.26        4 70     0 29    0 14
Gaowet         6   1 94                                   1 94     2.82        586      069    033
Linchaicm Lingqiao      4   1 29                                   1 29     1.79        372      072    0.35
Erli           5   1 61                                   1 61     2 41        5.03     0 67    0 32
Chngiar Yaowei          3   0 97                                   0 97     2 41        5 02     0 40    0 19
Bohu           2   0 65                                   0 65     2 53        528      0 25    0 12
Luji    Chenghe         1  0 32                                    0 32     1 92        4 00     017    0 08
Qingguang      3   0 97                                   0.97     214         4 45     045    0 22
Zhangfang      5   161                                    161      210         4 37     0 77    0 37
Panzhuang      2   0 65                                   0 65     1 87        3 90     0 34    017
Chenqing       2   0 65                                   0 65     1 53        320      0 42    0 20
Nongke          1  0 32                                   0 32     1.70        3.55     019    0 09
Luji           1  032                                     0.32     2.08        4 33     0 16    0 07
Daizhuang      3   0 97                                   0.97     2 22        4 62     0 44    0 21
Huangzhuat     6   1 94                                   1 94     2.67        5.56     0 73    0 35
Xingzhuang     3. 097                                     0.97     1 74        3 63     0 56    0.27
Peiwei   Dazhong        2   0 65                                   0 65     1-40        2 91     0 46    0.22
Nidong         4   1 29                                   1.29     1 70        3 54     0 76    0 36
Wanzhuanrg     3  0 97                                    0 97     1 94        4 05     0 50    0.24
Chenpi         1  0 32                                    0 32     2 35        4 89     014    0 07
Sanlian        1  0 32                                    0 32     164         3 42     0 20    0 09
Wafang         3   097                                    0.97     205         428      047    0.23
Chenzhuanr     1  032                                     032      2.21        460      015    007
Heping         3  0 97                                    0.97     1.56        3.26     0 62    0 30
Xinyuan  Sanxu          2   0 65                                   0 65     1 72        3 59     0 37    0 t8
Huangwei Yanqi          5   161                                    161      194         405      083    040
Huaiyinx Nanwupi  Huaisi        1  0 32                                   0 32      1.25       2.61      0.26    012
Jixi           2  0 65                                    0 65     0 97        2.22     067    0 29
Nonghe         2   065                                    065      0.91        1 79     0 71    0 36
Wuji           6   1 94                                   1 94     1 29        2 54     1 50    076
Xiaohebe,       1  0 32                                   0.32     1 48        3.61     0 22    0.09
Nanchenji Gaocnen       4   129                                    1a29     132         305      0.98    0 42
Gaozhuang      4   129                                    1 29     132         2.71     097    048
Xmnsheng       3  0 97                                    0.97     102         1.50     0.95    O.64
Chentp         2   065                                    065      0 32        0 64     199    100
Fuhe           2   0 65                                   0.65     120         2 29     0 54    0.28
Gaoyan  Yieznuangc      5   1 62                                   1 62     1.29        2 72     1.25    0.60
Huaifengcur    3  0 97                                    0 97     1 42        2.42     0 68    0 40
Zhangznou      6   1 94                                   1 94     0.93       1292      2 09    1 01
Huaiyins Wudun   Huzhuang       5   1 61                                  1 61      1 21       2.88      1 33    0.56
Gaokua         1  032                                     0 32     126         185      0.26    017
Tangzhuan      4   1 29                                   1.29     1 49        2.52     0 86    0 51
Yanpi          2   0 65                                   0 65     126         1 85     0 51    0.35
Yanhe   Xizhao          3   0 97                                   097      128         2 50     0 76    0 39
Da0            5   1 61                                   161      1.32        2.53     1 22    064
Zhihe           1  0.32                                   0 32     1 52        3.38     0 21    0.10
Yanhe          3  0 97                                    0 97     1.52        265      0 64    0 37
Guanying       5   1 61                                   1 61     130         2.68     1 24    0.60
Yaowancun       1  0 32                                   0.32     1 43        304      0.23    011
Balmahunor     5   1.61                                   1.61     7.02       1109      0 23    015
Huaian Sanbao  Zhouwan          2   065                                   065       0.6         120      0 98    0 54
Husyuan        1  0.32                                    0.32     0.99        2.19     0.33    0.15
Yueyuan        1  0.32                                    0.32     0.84        159      0 38    0.20
Datao          2   065                                    0.65     089         163      0 73    0.40
Taozhuang      1   0 32                                   032      068         1 93     0.37    0 17
Shatan         4   129                                    1.29     0 84        156      1.53    0.83
Ximzhuang      2   0 65                                   0.65     0.65        1.29     0 99    0.50
Chenzhuanr     4   1 29                                   1 29     0.98        173      1 32    0 74
Shanhezj Wudong         3   0 97                                   0.97     0 82        1.29     1 18    0.75
Gaobei         1  0 32                                    0.32     0.99        164      0 33    0.20
Zhangzhuar     3   0 97                                   0-97     146         2 70     0.66    0 36
Dayao          1  0.32                                    0 32     145         2.35     0.22    014
Tanzhuang      2   065                                    0.65     1 49        3 53     0.43    0 18
J-udian        3   0 97                                   0.97     116         1 81     0 83    0 53
Qianren        2   065                                    0.65     1 12        173      0.58    037
Total fortower               2406 16132 45415  12.29 1057  0j59  10.3264924         153        314   410.01  199.20
Dongmng SwIICh sti Yuzhoulj                 108               _    -       108      1.83       3.87    59.02   27.91
Sanpu switch staior Hanzhuang        135                                   135      2.35       521      5745   2591
Page 7 of Annex3 1



Annex 3.2 Social and Economic Information of Affected Villages
Number      oL iabor   Arable  Arable  land Arable Lant
Village                 Population                       Per         Per
Province County   Township             Households(HH)__            Force- ,Land,(Mu._ CapitLamu)  Laborer(mu)
Shlanxi  Yangchren. Beiliu    Xiaogou             136        491__   305    640 .5         1.30        2.10
Guangbi                260        906      349   1294.5         1.43        3.71
Chongshang             431       1614      861     2667         1.65        3.10
ZeZhong Zhoucui  LiYan                   225        642      411     1624          1.93       3.95
Chuanhe                121_    438         195     1060         2.42        5.35
Lizhaixiar Nancen               115        316      127    _,77          2.46        6.12
Qiuquan                263        806    _344      1866         2.32        5.42
Xifenggou              110        338      140      600-        1.78        4.29
Lizthai        , _  5i5         1779       668     3134      _  1.76        4.69
Nancunzh Donggouzhen            153        513      188      999         1.95        5.31
Fuotou                  51        166       50      327         1.76        6.54
Yanzhuang               48        158       34      319         2.04        9.38
Oaqixiang Nangou                135        478      135      623         1.30        4.61
Nanyu                  187        644      180      645         1.00        3.58
Nanheoi                350       1260      276     1663         1.32        6.03
Puotou                 130        454      110      748         1.65        6.80
Nanhexi Yietou                  218        814      390     1489         1.83        3B2
Shifeng            _    S_        184       98      455         2.47        4.64
Futou    Xijietou                83    -  ~333      153     1089         3.27        7.12
Yangjiashan             67     _- 252      150      832         3.30        5.55
Fangudui                76        310      166      741         2.39        4.46
Zhaize                 208        765      303     1572         2.05        5.19
Liukou   Zhanglianhe             64 ___215_  ___65    529.5              2.46        8.15
Xijiao                 148      _584       200     1050       t_1.80        5.25
Oongshugou              80        327      142      850         260         5.99
Huangwei               159        5?3      245     1500         2.62        6.12
Nanshao                 49        171       60      495         2.89        8.25
Henan   Xiuwuxian Xichen   Taoyuan                 42        168       67      371         2.21        5.52
Peiznuang               42        175       70      243         1.39        3.47
Jinlingpuo              51        173       69      635         3.67        9.18
Ansnang Xigou                   120        390      156     1744         4.47       11.18
Bianzhuang             225        967      387     1946.        2.01        5.03
Wujiatai                33    _152          60      321         2.11       -5.35
FangznuatSangwan                252  __  1021      408      2460         2.41        6.02
Anrhuang               163        721      300      550         0.76        1.83
Chizhuang              524       2296      889     4540         1.98        5.11
Huixian   Baobi   Gezhenzhuang           258       1006      452     1560         1.55        3.45
Gouwan                 263       1026      460     1568         1.53        3.41
Hezhuang               260       1014      455     1565         1.54        3.44
Mazhuang               254        991      440     1500         1.51        3.41
Xiaoluoying            261       1018      459     1570         1.54        3.42
Mengcun           _   257        1002      450     1555         1.55.       3.46
Zihangquanhe           263-    1026        462     1569         1.53        3.40
9'-79     438'    1548
Guanl,ul,e             251                                      1.58        3.55
Jitun    Baicaogang             289   _  1185       533     2209         1.86       4.14
Zhuqiu   Yisan                  452       1727      783     2676         1.55        3.42
Zhaogu  Anzhuang                328       1342      643     1755         1.31       2.73
Zhangzmuang            320 ._   1234       630     1678         1.36        2.66
Hanying                325 _     1300      638     1720    _   1.32        2.70
Zhaogu                 345       1418      651     1780         1.26       2.73
Zhaoguxi               319       1210      625     1655         1.37       2.65
Miaogu                 i27       1i21     640      1710         1.29       2.67
Huarnu                 325       1320      638     1693         1.28       2.65
BeiyajnneDahuamu                389       1603      715     1754         1.09       2.45
Zhougqi                384       1599      713     172          1.08       2.42
Huqjao -qixia_o ,,4211_    1629                     733   _ 1624         1.00       2.22
Peizha  -              417   _162t1   ?731        1800          0.99       2.19
Uuxiaozhuang            43       1635      740     1634         1.00       2.21
Oongxiaoznuat'          25  _-   163       7          3.99'    ----2.19
MengzmiaChangtun                506__    1912      977      1399         0.73       1.43
Zhengtun    .          510       1916      984     1409         0.74        1.43
Fantun                 502   _  1905      970      1358         0.71       1.40
Medei                  505       1910     975      1375         0.72       1.41
Changcun Wangcunpu              378       1435     634      2113         1.47       3.33
Xilianyan              368.      13968     611     1988         1.42       325
Xinxangxm Luwangfei Wangmen              898       4012    1550      3985         0.99       2.57
Guoliu                 605       2543    1104      2500         0.98       226
Weitui  TangzhmPenvao                    297       1261      487     2700         2.14       5.54
Page  ot Annex 3.2



Das,ma                 120       462      160     1101         2.38       6.88
Houzhuang             103        450      187      600         1.33       3.21
Gangcao               186        830      293     1905         2.30       6.50
TaigongqL Dongsimen            181        712     342      1211         1 70       3 54
Andu    Jinggang               265       1188     683      2651        2.23        3.88
Xiedao                248       1136     790      3021         2.66       3.82
Dunfangdi Blganmiao            150        609     220      1110        1 82        5.05
juntun                 243      1002      518     2625         2.62       5.07
Huangtugang           545       2251     963      3945         1 75       4 10
Niwan   Wupuo                  140        575     376      1085         1 89       2.88
Wangcun                189       754     330      1680         2.23       5.09
ShangiecL Shicun               303       1310     420      2661        2.03        6.34
Dongguanzhua          207        798     312      1722        2.16        5.52
Zhaocun               260       1079     423      1821         1.69       4.30
Duanzhuang            262       1062     442      2448         2.31       5.54
Pangzhai Pangzhai              672       2972    1125     3000         1.01        2.67
Liuwel                674       2240     900      3225         1 44       3.58
yanlinxian Fengznuai Kouzhuang          366       1631     655     2210         1 35        3.37
Houzhuarng            360       1610     650      2088         1 30       3.21
Feiwang               371       1680     665      2225         1 32       3.35
Mazhuan Changxin               350       1558     589      1980        1 27        3.36
huaxian  Bapuodiar Shahutuo             239       1075     430      1816        1.69        4.22
Yanhetun              219        985     394      1673         1 70       425
Luotang               249       1120     448      1880         1 68       4.20
Xingtou               280       1258     503      2125         1.69       4 22
Jiaohu   Koushang              284       1280     512      1984        1.55        3.88
Mancun                252       1134     454      1768         1 56       3.90
Hucun                 351       1580     632      2435         1 54       3.85
Hezhuang              240       1078     431      1671         1 55       3 88
Shanggua Luyizflai             297       1335     534      1936        1.45        3.63
Cizhouzha Beilzhuang           299       1345     538      1985        1.48        3 69
Houzhao               279       1256     502      1836         1.46       3.65
Gaozhuang             348       1568     627      2305         1.47       3.68
Yuanzhuang            344       1550     620      2270         1 46       3.66
.Beiyuanzhuan(         299       1345     538     1985         1.48       3.69
Yehedao               353       1590     636      2325         1 46       3.66
Gaoping  Houxie                298       1339     536      1968        1 47        3.68
Houhu                 272       1224     490      1775         1.45       3.63
Miaoqlu               321       1445     578      2085         1.44       3.61
ZhongOamiao           303       1365     546      1979         1.45       3.63
Liutan                292       1315     526      1900         1.44       3.61
Zhoutan               288       1298     519      1894         1.46       3.65
Xiaotan               270       1215     486      1762         1.45       3.63
Changyua Dingluan Oushaqiu              232       1115     446      1808        1.62        405
Yangshaq,u             105       501     200       788         1.57       3.93
Caoshaqiu             134        649     260       803         1.24       3.09
Shelia   Chenlia               243       1163     465      1435        1.23        3.09
Xizhanggongzr         245       1170     468      1440         1.23       3.08
Dongzhanggor          240       1155     458      1432         1.24       3.13
Shejpazhuang          268       1356     504      1450         1.07       2.88
Zhaopacun             233       1098     412      1268         1 15       3.08
Zhaijiacun            212        987     385      1225         1.24       3.18
Zhaod,   Dazhal                460       2300     800     2800         1.22        3.50
Wuqiu   Huichi                 286       1291     516      1545        1.20        2.99
Yuzhai                291       1311     546      1565         1.19       2.86
Houzintang            316       1421     592      1705         1 20       2.88
Sanyicun              225       1014     423      1214         1 20       2.87
Shangdon Dongming ZhangzhaalXindongpu            180       876      482     1485         1.70       3.08
Shanggua Wangxinzhuan          426       1817     999     3345         1.84        3.35
Gaoqiang              480       1863    1025      3210         1.72       313
Liulicun              585       2546    1400      1860        0.73        1.33
Yuwuo   Gaoman                 315       1i93     684     2940         2.46        4.30
Yuzhouji              396       1529     724      2805         1.83       3.87
Jiliying              350       1454     692      3600        2.46        5.20
Huzhuang Gaoguanying           159        674     340'  iS1'           2.25        4.46
Huanglukou            298       1377     698      3615        2.63        5.18
Gaolinzhai            117        537     281      1020        1.90        3.63
Huzhuang              256       1133     581      1935        1.71        3.33
Liqiaocun             259       1274     643      2415        1 90        3.76
Lijingcun              182       847     471      1620        1.91        3.44
Heze    Erlangmia Xinzhai               106        408     182    641.9         1.57       3.52
Fanha'                209       I803     359   1430.3         1.78        3.98
Huangmiao             277       1063     475   1477.5         1.39        3.11
Caozhluang            159        612     273    991.9          1 62       3.63
Page 2 01 Annex 3.2



EhuIlaoi            189        727     325   1327.1         1.82       4.08
Fuzhuang              217        832      372   1185.5         1.43       3.19
Zhangznuang            145       555      248    682.6         1.19       2.67
Malinggan Liufang               203       781      349   1087.2         1.39       3.12
Zhaolou                266      1022      457   2217.7         2.17       4.86
Yangmaozhan             625      238      108    369.6         1.55       3.47
Ronglou                168       646      288   1188.5         1.84       4.12
Houbai                294       1130      505   1966.0         1.74       3.90
Lishe                  196       753      336   1474.5         1.96       4.38
Helong   Gezhenwang             176       682      305   1012.5         1.48       3.32
Jiangloucun            269      1032      461   1597.4         1.55       3.46
Dongzhuang              74       283      127    484.6         1.71       3.83
Jindi    Zhengqiao              194       745      333    984.0         1.32       2.95
Maohai                 169       650      291    865.1         1.33       2.98
Leizhuang              119       457      204    732.3         1.60       3.59
Mazhuang                91       349      156    346.0         0.99       2.22
Liucheng               654      2510    1121   3247.9          1.29       2.90
Liuruiyu               120       462      206    629.1         1.36       3.05
Fanzhuang              109       419      187    619.3         1.48       3.31
Dingtao  Dengji   Xiyaozhuang            177       704      339     1335         1.90       3.94
Xidawangzhua           144       712      341     1335         1.88       3.91
Wanghongzhu;            79    _  341      163      570         1.67       3.50
qiaolou               405       1841      883     2415         1.31       2.73
Zhangguoyu              86       422      202      585         1.39       2.90
Caolou                 190       789      379     1365         1.73       3.60
Maji     Dinglou                168       670      360      972         1.45       2.70
Renzhuang             192        716      340      822         1.15       2.42
Linwa                  112       387      180      225         0.58       1.25
Feilizhuang            110       386      180    496.5         1.29       2.76
Xuzhang                167       586      300   1114.5         1.90       3.72
Nanwangc Songli                 327      1289      626     2177         1.69       3.48
Dawanzhuang           377       1478      650     2354         1.59       3.62
Shenzhuang            433       1708      837     2632         1.54       3.14
Songliu               318       1253      613     2026         1.62       3.31
Changzhai             421       1662      815     2284         1.37       2.80
Qizhuang               278      1097      532     1583         1.44       2.98
Tianji   Liuzhuangzhai          345       1285     480     2595         2.02       5.41
Nanmalou               245      1030      500     1440         1.40       2.88
Shiloumiao            233       1013      583     2055         2.03       3.52
Zhunaimiao             220       854      470     1305         1.53       2.78
Junzhangzhual          736      2342      670     3210         1.37       4.79
Caoxian  Guyingji  Hanzhuang             164       724      423    938.5         1.30       2.22
Zhouwa                 114       411      272    683.2         1.66       2.51
Lidaqiao               127       593      384      758         1.28       1.97
Shuyangzhuan           229       864      575    852.4         0.99       1.48
Shenlou                189       862      563   1453.4         1.69       2.58
Yangzhuang             170       676      437  .1128.3         1.67       2.58
Miloucun              209        839      546   1382.1         1.65       2.53
Chengwu Jiunuxianc Yanzhuang             208       764      470   1609.1         2.11       3.42
Jiazhuang              120       937      297    919.3         0.98       3.10
Biaogecun             214        858      549   1725.6         2.01       3.14
Yanlou                 127       558      361    756.1         1.36       2.09
Caolou                376       1564      954   3077.8         1.97       3.23
Yinzhuang              150       546      354    620.9         1.14       1.75
Mengzhuang             106       445      256   1059.2         2.38       4.14
Zhilou    Longwangmiac          196       776      506   1897.3         2.44       3.75
Kangzhuang             143       539      351   1322.2         2.45       3.77
Xiaolulou              319      1308      835   3819.9         2.77       4.34
Fuzhuang               124       497      324   1172.1         2.36       3.62
yuezhuang              262       956      576   2335.5         2.44       4.05
Xuezhuang              157       600      406   1756.7         2.93       4.33
Kangji   Gaozhuang              205       972      635   2758.4         2.84       4.34
Shaolou                 78_      332      211    844.1         2.54       4.00
Tiangongr Yuezhailou            419       1548     990   3665.9         2.37       3.70
Tiangongmiao           998      3821    2383   4883.6          1.28       2.05
Beizhangztluar        322       1242      767   2994.3         2.41       3.90
Sujie                 214        842      555.  1955.4         2.32       3.52
Shenjialou            582       2316    1412   4716.5          2.04       3.34
Wangji                 276      1130      702   2251.7         1.99       3.21
Huolou                221        905      549   1930.7         2.13       3.52
Bailou                337       1314      834     2243         1.71       2.69
Sunsi    Oiancaoliwang          295      1299      828   1782.3         1.37       2.15
Houcaoliwvang          165       761      474     1791         2.35       3.78
Koulizhuang            290      1398      870   2991.1         2.14       3.44
Zhenpzhuang            316      1543      974   36644          2.37       3.76
Page 3 of Annex 3.2



Xupenyao              303       i301      817   27475          2.11       3.36
Xieyuanhiulou         324       1366     895   3053.4          2.24       3.41
Shanxian Dallhai  Gemiaocun             628       2389    1275     2640         1 11        2.07
Xiaosthai             374       1410      760     2445         1.73       3.22
Gezhuang              290       1131      628     1620         143        2.58
Libanzhua Liufanpeng           428       1285     421      1515        1.18        3.60
Panglou               211        635      275     1305        206         4.75
Jizhuang              308        924      220     1680         1.82       7 64
Fengdian              147        442      i87      765         1.73       4 09
Songlou               280        840      359     1440         1 71       4.01
Zhouzhuang            218        655      279     1080         1 65       3.87
Shadian               252        757      323     1215        1.61        3.76
Dinglou  Jialou                251        924     610      1518        1 64        2.49
Wuzhuang              250       1265      610  2275.05         1.80       3.73
Chenlizhuang            75       326      210    670.5         2.06       3.19
Dashahetinchang                505       2200    1310     3081         1 40        2.35
Huayuan Shenzhuang             179        785     463   1276.5         1.63        2.76
Baizhuang             164        728      433   1573 5;        2.16       3.63
Yanzhuang              45       1514      922   3433.5         2.27       3.72
Huayuan               433  _   1687    1121   24675            1.46       2.20
Houriuayuan           238        994      572   1216.5         1 22       2.13
Oianwangtiu           161        654      374     1191         1.82       318
ThanzhuanX;aomengdian          100 _    468       260    796.5         1 70        3.06
Sunliuxian Duanlou             550       1858    1010     3870         2.08        3.83
Oianbanquan           457       1512      916     2385         1 58       2.60
Luozhuani Xiangyang            103        154      82       390        2.53        4.76
Longwang Tanglian              279 _    1086      560      1425        1 31        2.54
Zhupuolou             289       1146      570     1155         1.01       2.03
Huang'erlou           144        538      270      630         1.17       2.33
Longxizhuang          279       1075      535     1485         1 38       2.78
Donglongwang          258  _    978       480     1020         1 04       2.13
Longwangmiac          292       1124      550     1155         1.03       2.10
Chenznuang            178        629      319      750         1.19       2.35
Dasulou               323       1246      625     1860         1.49       2.98
Huimiao               328   _  1266       630     1815         1 43       2.88
Shenloucun            346  _   1326      665      1305        0.98        1.96
Caitang  Xinyangmiao           446__  1758        870     2385         1 36        2.74
Youmiao               549  _   2145       895     2535         1 18       2.83
Chuzhuang             366       1426      705     1830         1.28       2.60
Wangxiao Wangxiaozhua          378       1466     710      2055        1 40        2.89
Zhuji    Wangdalou             360       1778     910   1738 5         0.98        1.91
Luji                  176       1070      660      810        0.76        1.23
Huanglou              372 _     1545    1100      1971         1.28       1.79
Tongzhuang            130        459      320      525         1.14       1.64
Liulou                422       2260    1220      2475         1.10       2.03
Guolou                155        723      410   1009.5         1 40       2.46
Zhanghuayuan           190 _     864      460   1192.5         1 38       2.59
Yanzhang              140        593 .  310    952 5           1.61       3.07
Wanggan               351       1607      810   2314 5         1 44       2.86
Anhui   Xiaoxian  Liu'anlou Dinghuayuandi        385      1623      569   3010 5         1.85       5.29
Yanglou  Peizhuang             304    _ 1121      457   2053.5         1.83        449
Huazhuang             222       _ 944     319     1431         1.52       4.49
L:utao   Guanit                328_      1403     355      2805        2DO         7 90
Changlou              201_       791      286 _ 1435.5         1.81       5.02
Zhaoiou                167 _  _ 644       247_  1144.5         1.78       4.63
Duanyuan Wei'an                237    _  975      303   1612.5         1.65        5.32
Qicun                 331       1299      410     2400         1.85       5.85
Qizhuang              424       1447      469     2376         1 64       5.07
Lingblxian Xialouxian Caikuang          224        962     385     1467         1.52        3.81
Caitang               316       1357      543     2700         1.99       4.97
Zhongxie              397       1709      684     2040         1.19       2.98
Sanlou                315       1356      542     1350         1.00       2.49
Chaoyang Olloucun               25 2B-1689    1076-  2565              0.95        2.38
388 ___1668   .667         1725         1.03       2.59
Jiangsu  Fengxian Wanggou Lilou                  511      2139    1047      3148         1.47       3.01
DalIou                520  _   2180    1067       2959         1.36       2.77
Wusuolou              489       2050    1003      2830         1.38       2.82
Shaolou               519       2175    1065      3341         1.54       3.14
Zhuhecun              344       1441      705     2198         1.53       3.12
Wanggou               440       1843      902     2079         113        2.30
Jiangli               343       1435      702     2047         1 43       2.91
Chengji               333       1397      684     2261        1.62        3.31
Shanlou  Liuii                 284       1190     582      2471        2086        4.24
Page 4 of Annex 3.2



Miaocnhengjp          454       1904      932     2471         1.30       2.65
Liuwanglo Liudiwan             236        973      476     1078         1.11       2.27
Gebacao               661       2720    1329      3754         1.38       2.82
Xinzhuang             352       1450      709    1959          1.35       2.76
Wangpinglou           284       1170      572     1675         1.43       2.93
Suixinzhuang          361       1488      727     2242         1.51       3.08
Songlou  Huanglou              392       1613      987     2309         1.43       2.34
Weizhang              485       1995    1220      2369         1.19       1.94
Wafang                364       1498      916     1770         1.18       1.93
Zhaozhuang            212        872      533      800         0.92       1.50
Zhuangyuan            310       1276       780   -1223         0.96       1.57
Xiantianji            644       2652    1622,    2931.         1.11       1.81
Lilchuanlou           416     - 1713    1048      1506         0.88       1.44
Jiangq!ao             392       1613      987     2309         1.43       2.34
Dashahe Saiemiao               276       1135      694     1510         1.33       2.18
Liuzuolou             340  _  -1398       855     3090         2.21       3.61
Taolou   Fangzhuang             194       797      487      903         1.13       1.85
Lizhai   Zhongji               469 ___       1986    1040  1190         0.60       1.14
Maolou                303       1282      671     1244         0.97       1.85
Sunzhaiqinwar         563       2381    1247      2350         0.99       1.88
Sunzhaiqufang       .803        3398    1780      2398       , 0.71       1.35
Puolou                357       1509      790     1798         1.19       2.27
Malukou               262 _    1108       580      777         0.70       1.34
Daizhuang             376       1592      834     1650         1.04       1.98
Qianji                204        863      452      488         0.57       1.08
Lianznai Silou       _5205  _   836                432     1362         1.63       3.15
Honganlou             456 6     1864      963     1882         1.01       1.95
Liuzhuang   .          302    _1235    -638       2456         1.99       3.85
Yaoliwang              589   _2406    1243        3089         1.28       2.48
Xigaotou               287 __   1171      605      868         0.74       1.43
Jiadi                  502      2050    1059      1643         0.80       1.55
Faniou   Yuanzhuang            482       15i4      791.    2156         1.37       2.72
Lutaocun              524      .1710      860     2264         1.32       2.63
Hanzhuang              353    -1152       579     1488         1.29       2.57
*Luozhuang             284       927      466     i324         1.43        2.84
Wanghuangzhl           285  _    930      468     1354         1.46       2.90
Jingzhuang            893       2915    1466      3311         1.14       2.26
Guolicun               791 _    2580    1297      3872         1.50       2.98
Toushanxi Heqiao   Maxing               650       2632     845      3228         1.23       3.82
Xiaozhuang            635  _   2566       994     4552         t.77       4.58
Zhangji                906      4249    1892      6119         1.44       3.23
Lizhuang              418       1346      759.   2882          2.14       3.80
Tulou                 510       2042      839     4487         2.20       5.35
Zhuanglizhai           649      3020    1203      3214         1.06       2.67
Huangi  Chenlou                623_   _2344 ___ 1310 _  4256            1.82       3.25
Lulou                 402       1620      790     3448         2.13       4.36
Liuji   Yangzhuang             750   _  2800    1010       541?7        1.93       5.38
Dongfeng              938       3461    1400      3963         1.15       2.83
Dingmeng              1046   - 3530    1S00       3910         1.11       2.61
Wangtao                907      3178    1304      4347         1.37       3.33
Xinjian                446      1636      599     2504         1.53       4.18
Dapeng  Haoziai                893      3280      1918     4025         1.23       2.10
Yanqun               -1 180     4320 _2105        5614 130                2.68
Shatang                980      3468    1549      5050         1.46       3.26
Houlou                806       2921    1296      3919         1.34       3.02
Jiahezhai              730      2314    1318      4181         1.81       317
Zhangjing              S51      2045      968     1960         0.96       2.02
Tulou                 860      .2807    1100      i614         0.57       1.47
Yian    ,              764      2506    1047      3337         1.33       3.19
Wangmen                980      3370    1387      4803         1.43       3.46
Hanwang>Zhaoshan               906_    3646    1686        2714         0.74       1.61
-Huyao       ,        1190      4326    2285      4598         1.06       2.01
Dongyan.              650       2430      913     3189         1.31       3.49
_Eapnjing              700       2445    1250  _ 3294 _         1.35       2.64
Hanlou                380       1283      697     3322         2.59       4.77
Hangou                575       2154    1045      5753         2.67       5.51
Sanpu   Taishang              1226       4394    1998      7502         1.71       3.75
Yuzhuan9q             1168      4070    1903      7838         1.93       4.12
Haihu                 1226      4394    1998      7502         1.71       3.75
Sibao                 988       3660    1530      7435         2.03       4.88
Maozhuang             963 ..3429    1660          6808         1.99       4.10
Uuzhuang              628       2198    1000      4340         1.97       4,34
Shiqiao               575       1979    1043      3613         1.83       3.46
Tangzharn Chaohu               550       1983     948      2463         1.25       2.62
Xiahucun              948       3022    1548      5292         1.75       3.42
Page 5 of Annex 3.2



Shuangjing             365       1334     476      2583         1 94       5.43
Patfang                671       2801    1961      4245         1.52       2.16
Tangzhangnon           136        496      244      620         1.25       2.54
Xinzhuang              365       1220     626      3299         2.70       5.27
Liutangcun             592       2200    1132      3650         1.66       3.22
Hedong                 735       2654    1672      4946         1.86       2.96
Zhangji  Liangtang              776       3012    1600      4600         1 53       2.88
Ercheng                813       3128    1511      7344         2.35       4.86
Chengtou               569       2132    1450      4334         2.03       2.99
Shulkoucun             640       2382    1200      2970         1.25       2.48
Diandong               735       2843    1430      6104         2.15       4.27
Zha,shan               434       1571     720      4603         2.93       6.39
Yanglou                554       2115    1680      4300         2.03       2.56
Zhang8s                627       2454    1034      4055         1.65       3.92
Hanzhuang              193        825     373      1942         2.35       5.21
Banshan                478       1836     687      4433         2.41       6.45
Yangwa                 552       2092     740      3798         1.82       5.13
Heloucun               223        884     430      1290         1.46       3.00
Maocunxi; Zhaozhuang           1225       3857    1740      3963         1.03       2.28
Gangtou                580       1892     750      3200         1.69       4.27
Nanyuan                575       1900     900      2306         1.21       2.56
Dahuangs Jmngshan               835       2902    1487      2363         0.81       1.59
Dahuangshan            891       2986    1500      3393         1.14       2.26
Xlzhucun               708       2450     875      2066         0.84       2.36
Xiajingcun             547       1846     783      1460         0.79       1 86
Dawuzher Wazhuang               605       2218     890      2150         0.97       2.42
Xiazhuang              682       2267    1117      2140         0.94       1.92
Damiao  Damisac                 958       3412    1660      4229         1.24       2.55
Houyac                 705       2808    1340      3981         1.42       2.97
Oiantao                465       1621     788      2162         t 33       2.74
Wushao  Luzhuang                279        944     445      1399         1.48       3.14
Mumiao                 476       1697     780      2300         1.36       2.95
Xiamacun               273        905     347      1643         1 82       4.73
Dengzhuang             392       1459     658      2367         1.62       3.60
Dongliadadui           534       2042     870     3667          1.80       4.21
Guojw   Lutaicun                345       1370     516      3391         2.48       6.57
Tulongcun              293       1184     455      3181         2.69       6.99
Linchang               581       2180     860      5731         2.63       6.66
Fangcun  Shangwang              600      2628      940     4308          1.64       4.58
Yanglou                170        618     270      1167         1.89       4.32
Doujiacun              509      2141      754     3650          1.70       4.84
Suiningxia Shuanggo Sanloucun            287       1146     553     4541          3.96       8.21
Shanggao               218        870     420     3750         4.31        893
Mengwei                506      2024      977     7101         3.51        7.27
Danqtao                144        575     278     2135         3.71        7.68
Jiwancun               243        972     469     2510          2.58       5.35
Zhuying                271       1083     523      3041         2.81       5.81
Sutang   Chaihu                 238        953     381      1920        2.01        5.04
Niantou                369       1475     590     2535          1 72       4 30
Wangpi  Yangjicun               583       2330    1210     3836          1.65       3.17
Luanshan Weizhuang              188     _  753     411      1227         1.63       2.99
Yangzhuang             376       1505     822     2181          1.45       2.65
Huangshan              351t      1404     767     2495          1.78       3.25
-CaowuCii              459       1836    1002      2999         1.63       2.99
Gaoji    Malicun                379      1517      783     2580          1.70       3.30
Hewancun               430       1719     887     2963          1.72       3.34
Sunmiao                352       1409     727     3059         2.17        4.21
Qlgecun                470       1880     970     3576          1.90       3.69
Yuanloucun             362       1449     748      2741         1.89       3.66
Zhuji    Yuanxiaolou            364    _ 1456      929      3500         2.40       3.77
.Jnzhuang              482   _  1847    1178      2915          1.58       2.47
....   .          ~~~~~Uloucun            241        9ff2    614    _1448          1.51       2.3ff
Weztuang               254       1014     647      1625         1.60       2.51
Luwacun                420       1679    1071     3113          1.85       2.91
Yusndian               587       2266    1445     4598         2.03        3.18
Machang                381       1522     971     3315         2.18        3.41
Zhulou   Paifangcun             238        950     508      1790         1.88       3.52
Shuweicun              312       1249     668     2060          1.65       3.08
Dlaoqiao               461       1845     987     2657         1.44        2.69
QiujI    Houloucun              351       1403     766     2250          1.60       2.94
Dayangcun              386       1542     841     2237          1.45       2.66
Dayucun                305-      1220     666      1434         1.18       2.15
xiangdian              599      2397    1308      2880          1.20       2.20
Llaogang               558       2230    1217     3268          1.48       2.68
Xinzhacun              612       2447    1335     3812          1.56       2.86
Page 6 of Annex 3.2



Chenlou                583       2332    1273      2708         1.16       2.13
lidiancun              317       1266      691     1629         1.29       2.36
Oiujicun               910       3639    1986      3267         0.90        1.65
Humiao                 859       3434    1874      5127         1.49       2.74
Nongke                 445       1780.    971      2321         1.30       2.39
Wanglou                474       1896    1035      2904         1.53       2.81
Lingcheng Chenlicun             524       2097    1044      3986         1.90       3.82
Xiawei                 365       1461      727     2028         1.39       2.79
linglong               515       2059    1025      4092         1.99        3.99
Liweicun               533       2133    1062      2583         1.21       2.43
Qigancun               505       2019    1005      2120         1.05       2.11
Sunxue                 627       2509    1249      3566         1.42       2.86
Yongfeng               606       2422    1206      2543         1.05       2.11
Suyuxian Longhe   Dalucun                281       1208     483      1482         1.23       3.07
Longji                 209        898      359     1017         1.13       2.83
Zhudaguang            415       1786      714   1879.5         1.05       2.63
Jiahecun               245_      1053     421   1402.5          1.33       3.33
Chenzhuang             327  _   1406       562     2118         1.51       3.77
Qinweicun              246       1059      424   1312.5         1.24       3.10
Daluocun               633       2721    1088      3819         1.40       3.51
Luowei  Guowel                  329       1415      566   2059.5         146        3.64
Guxicun                348       1498      599     2397         1.60       4.00
Gulucun                312       1343      537     2445         1.82       4,55
Sihongxiai Chenji   Renba                271       1165     466      1800         1.55       3.86
Chenzhong              552   _2598    1247         3794         1.46       3.04
Caizhai                261  _   1125       680      838         0,74       1.23
Siliucun               460       2126     950      1245         0.59       1.31
Shewang                235       1114      506      976         0.88       1.93
Siyangxiaz Tuyuan  Zhoushi               403       1650     792      3005         1.82       3.79
Xiezhuang              407       1845      886     2432         1.32       2.75
Zhanggao               451       2217    1064      3323         1.50       3.12
Oianjincun             431       1926      924     2783         1.44       3.01
Shengzhuang            456 _   2570    1234        3232         1.26       2.62
Zhouli                 380       1801      864     2436         1.35       2.82
Wangqing               513       2280    1094      3103         1.36       2.84
Jiangwei               615       3111    1493      3595         1.16       2.41
Zhongyan, Maoji                 388       1674      804     3632         2.17       4.52
Gengdong               334       1335      641     2310         1.73       3.60
Zhongyang              235        990      475     2291         2.31       4.82
Wuwei                  368       1427      685     2939         2.06       4.29
Jiangzhai              285       1164     559      2810         2.41       5.03
Liufan                 465       2046      982     4620         2.26       4.70
Gaowei                 380       1439     691      4064         2.82       5.88
Linchaichi Lingqiao             341       1400      672     2500         1.79       3.72
Erfi                   285       1164     559      2810         2.41       5.03
Chengxtar Yaowei                427       1912      918     4608         2.41       5.02
Bohu                   369       1563     750      3958         2.53       5.28
Luji     Chenghe                363 -    1513       726     2906         1.92       4.00
Oingguang              380       1707      819     3648         2.14       4.45
Zhangfang              308_   1394         669     2923         2.10       4.37
Panzhuang              427       2027      973     3798         1.87       3.90
Chenqing               240       1147      551     1760         1.53       3.20
Nongke                 255       1108     532      1887         1.70       3.55
Luji                   360       1561      749     3244         2.08       4.33
Daizhuang              459       2245    1078      4981         2.22       4.62
Huangzhuang            142        645     310      1720         2.67       5.56
Xingzhuang             166        781      375     1359         1.74       3.63
Peiwei   Dazhong                530       2343    1125      3274         1.40       2.91
Nidong                 408       1676      804     2849         1.70       3.54
Wanzhuang              320       1769      849     3437         1 94       4.05
Chenjii                345  __     056    507      2478         2.35       4.89
Sanlian                413       t921     922      3156         1.64       3.42
Wafang                 420       1782      ass     3662         2.05       4.28
Chenzhuang             290        977      469     2156         2.21       4.60
Heping                 343       1921      922     3006         1.56       3.26
Xinyuan  Sanxu                  348       1765  _  847      3041         1.72       3.59
Huangwei Yanqi                  320  _   1769       849     3437         1.94       4.05
Huaiyinxis Nanwuji  Huaisi               471       2061      990     2583         1.25       2.61
Jixi                   408     _ 1 717     750     1663         0.97       2.22
Nongke                 156                 39 706    644        0.91       1.79
Wuji                   698       2913    1480      3757         1.29       2.54
Xiaohebei              310       1580      649     2341         1.48       3.61
Nanchenji Gaochen               462       1900      820     2502         1.32       3.05
Gaozhuang              312       1287      630     1705         1.32       2.71
Xinsheng               363       1712    1166      1750         1.02       1.50
Page 7 of Annex 3.2



Chengi                 932      3905    1962       1263         0.32       0.64
Fuhe                   205       885      465      1064         1.20       2.29
Gaoyan  Yiezhuangcun            345      1443      685      1861         1.29       2.72
Huaifengcun            262      1121      657      1592         1 42       2.42
Zhangzhou              401      1720      831      1593         0.93       1.92
Huaiyinshi Wudun   Huzhuang              555      2348      995     2542          121        2.86
Gaokua                 434      1835    1257      2321          1.26       1 85
Tangzhuang             395       1700    1005      2537         149        2.52
Yanli                  434      1835    1257       2321         1.26       1.85
Yanhe   Xizhao                  404      1713      875      2188         1 28       2.50
Dali                   386      1659      865      2189         1.32       2.53
Zhihe                  243       1021     460      1556         1.52       3.38
Yanhe                  351      1489      853      2261         1.52       2.65
Guanying               402      1720      836      2239         1.30       2.68
Ysowancun              402       1734     816      2478         1 43       3.04
Baimahunongc            80       289      183     2030          7.02      1109
Huai'an   Sanbao  Zhouwan                383      1603      876      t055         0.66       1.20
Huayuan                454      2107      953     2087          0.99       2.19
Yueyuan                380      1690      900      1427         0.84       1.59
Datao                  403      1745      950      1551         0.89       1 63
Taozhuang              235      1114      506      976          0.88       1.93
Shatan                 530      2264    1221       1906         084        1 56
Xinznuang               98       393      200       257         0.65       1.29
Chenznuang             376      1214      686      1189         0.98       1.73
Shanhezh. Wudong                485      2014    1287       1655         0.82       1.29
Gaobei                 386      1556      935      1534         0.99       1.64
Zhangzhuang            310       1303     705      1904         1 46       2.70
Dayao                  535      2061    1272      2985          1.45       2.35
Tanzhuang              335       1470     620     2187          1.49       3.53
Jiudian                292       1296     832      1509         116        1 81
Oianren                424      2007    1294      2245          1.12       1.73
2012478415  80796485  392534  1233668           1 53        3.14
Page 8 Of Annex 3.2



Annex 3.3 Social and Economic Information of Affected Townships
Number of  Arable  Arable land   Arable
Cour.y   Township  Population                          Per    Land   Per
Labor Force Land(mu) Capita(mu)   Labor
Shar;i Province
Yan :-cheng Beiliu        32065      15140      43050       1.34       2.84
Zei.ong   Zhoucui         26583      10607      44010       1.66       4.15
Lizhaixiang    15080       5486      29910       1.98       5.45
Nancunzhen     41012      12031      38550       0.94       3.20
Daqixiang      16562       4740      19155       1.16       4.04
Nanhexi         9103       4045      13665       1.50       3.38
Futou          16486       6173      30570       1.85       4.95
Liukou         10837       3659      23550       2.17       6.44
Henan Province
Xiuwuxian  Xichen         16179       8961      17085       1.06       1.91
Anshang         2879       1216       5235        1.82      4.31
Fangzhuang     23532      11841      36315       1.54       3.07
Huixian    Baobi          38338      17205      59280       1.55       3.45
Jitun          26223      11741      48600       1.85       4.14
Zhuqiu         19174       8623      29445 .  1.54          3.41
Zhaogu         40966      19312      52650        1.29      2.73
Beiyunmen      47008      20740      50595       1.08       2.44
Huqiao         28773      12469      27465       0.95       2.20
Mengzhuanc     54335      26387      37095       0.68       1.41
_  Changcun     41095      17768      59175       1.44       3.33
Xinxiangxiar Luwangfen    23250       9997      21641       0.93       2.16
Weihui    Tangzhuang      37301      17818      61545       1.65       3.45
Taigongque     28599      13143      56955       1.99       4.33
Andu           31053      16755      70350       2.27       4.20
Dunfangdian    28358      13150      53520       1.89       4.07
Niwan          12539       5751      23220       1.85       4.04
Shanglecun     31295      13319      58455       1.87       4.39
Pangzhai       22282       9736      29145       1.31       2.99
yanjinxian  Fengzhuang    31000      13020      42000       1.35       3.23
Mazhuan        39000      15990      46000       1.18       2.88
huaxian    Bapuodian      48500      19400      81720       1.68      4.21
Jiaohu         51200  _  20480       74760       1.46       3.65
Shangguan      64100      25640      92940       1.45       3.62
Cizhouzhai     46400      18560      68475       1.48       3.69
Gaopinp        54900  _  21960       82590       1.50       3.76
Changyuan Dingluan        40688      16278      49000       1.20       3.01
Shejia         47000      18800      56000       1.19       2.98
Zhaodi         30100      12040      35000       1.16       2.91
Wuqiu          44366      17749      51588       1.16       2.91
Shangdong Province
Dongmingxi;Zhangzhai      25992      10842      33825       1.30      3.12
Shawuo         33228      14954      53925       1.62       3.61
Page 1 of Annex3.3



Yuwuo          36146      17838      71745        1.98      4.02
Huzhuang       27950      14308      51465       1.84       3.60
Heze      Eriangmiao     23859        9633     32640        1.37      3.39
Malinggang     27925      11981      46845       1.68       3.91
Helong         38089      16602      44640       1.17       2.69
Jindi          25248       9160      32025       1.27       3.50
Dingtao    Dengji        25987       10395     40589        1.56      3.90
Maji           22039       8816      37016       1.68       4.20
Nanwangdia    26820       10728      45442       1.69       4.24
Tianji         24048       9619      40151       1.67       4.17
Caoxian    Guyingji      45300       23600     67725        1.50      2.87
Chengwuxia Jiunuxiang     35908      20779     38475        1.07       1.85
Zhilou         24188       9953      31650       1.31       3.18
Kangji         15069       7000      26040       1.73       3.72
Tiangongmiz    29056      14056      35370       1.22       2.52
Sunsi          35380      17269      45960       1.30       2.66
Shanxian   Dalihai        32640      16752     40440        1.24      2.41
Libanzhuanc    32116      10937      36915       1.15       3.38
Dinglou        18365       4266      23625       1.29       5.54
Huayuan        31530      15778      44850       1.42       2.84
Tianzhuang>    22611       7837      35685       1.58       4.55
Luozhuang      24432       9082      42240       1:73       4.65
Sunliuxiang    15885      16809      50475       3.18       3.00
Longwangm!    13721       14098      46005       3.35       3.26
Caitang        18877      17200      56340       2.98       3.28
Wangxiaozh     11056      10398      40845       3.69       3.93
Zhuji          18006      13427      55110       3.06       4.10
Anhui Province
Xiaoxian   Liu'anlou     65861       29243    100575        1.53      3.44
Yanglou        71291      28828      84300       1.18       2.92
Liutao         43515      16656      43440       1.00       2.61
Duanyuan       54154      21951      71580       1.32       3.26
Lingbixian  Xialouxiang  62700      21822    107571         1.72      4.93
Chaoyangzh     67494      30864    111650        1.65       3.62
Jiangsu Province
Fengxian   Wanggou       51149    _ 24045      71747        1.40      2.98
Shanlou        41878      19993      55627       1.33       2.78
Liuwanglou     29817      15338      43998       1.48       2.87
Songlou        48963      25273      67367       1.38       2.67
Dashahe        15129       8150      12709       0.84       1.56
Taolou         24048      11625      31826       1.32       2.74
Lizhai         35351      18180      46542       1.32       2.56
Lianzhai       37675    _19882       57062       1.51       2.87
Fanlou         40286      20540      58133       1.44       2.83
Toushanxiar Heqiao       46690       17000     82260        1.76      4.84
Huangji        54571      24200      87660       1.61       3.62
Liuji          61098      22600      75750       1.24       3.35
Dapeng   _    59696  __23100         63285       1.06       2.74
Hanwangxia    51119       22000      60000       1.17       2.73
Page 2 ot AnnexT.3



Sanpu          60675      24800      88950       1.47       3.59
Tangzhang      52946      25700    104445        1.97       4.06
Zhangji        40185      15200      72645       1.81       4.78
Maocunxianj    66147      21200      50385       0.76       2. 38
Dahuangsha     41156      20700      27195       0.66       1.31
Dawuzhen       34706      14800      59355       1.71       4.01
Damiao         62275      21600      58020       0.93       2.69
Wushao         28413      11300      42165       1.48       3.73
Guoji          23886   _  9100       49425       2.07       5.43
Fangcun        42562      15300      62685       1.47       4.10
Suiningxian Shuanggouz    56805      27432      74355       1.31       2.71
Sutang         32067      12813      40785       1.27       3.18
Wangji         40115      20835      53115       1.32       2.55
Luanshan       40732      22260      60645       1.49       2.72
Gaoji          32777      16914      54405       1.66       3.22
Suqian    Zhuji           35042      22352     60645        1.73      2.71
Zhulou         19046      10193      22545       1.18       2.21
Qiuji          59447      32443      84630       1.42       2.61
Wanglin        39644      20584      51225       1.29       2.49
Lingcheng      71957    _ 35828      79095       1.10       2.21
Suyuxian   Longhe         44431      21780      54670       1.23       2.51
Luowei         40319      20002      44247       1.10       2.21
Sihongxian Chenji         49206      25159      65050       1.32       2.59
Siyangxian Tuyuan         47399      24411      68994       1.46       2.83
Zhongyang      41823   _  18196      58451       1.40       3.21
Linchaichan(    6197       3347       8939       1.44       2.67
Chengxiang     45931      27719      53514       1.17       1.93
Luji           38155      16677      65526       1.72       3.93
Peiwei         28065      14938      27489       0.98       1.84
Xinyuan        45224      18974      42909       0.95       2.26
Huangwei       26027      13433      26372       1.01       1.96
Huaiyinxian Nanwuji       30707      14721     40061        1.30       2.72
Nanchenji      39466      21098      46058       1.17       2.18
Gauyan         27105      11191      36022       1.33       3.22
Huaiyinshiqii Wudun       23891   _ 12667       31456       1.32      2.48
Yanhe          34305      17582      48551        1.42      2.76
Huai'an    Sanbao         33156      16648     25839        0.78       1.55
Shanhezhen     29244      15574      33998       1.16       2.18
4453351  2028607.6   6276305        1.41      3.09
34522.1    15725.6   48653.5       1.41       3.09
Page 3 of Annex3.3



Annex 3.4 Distribution of Affected Enterprises
Provimce  ILocation            Name                        uIntt  Single-sory       p                     2   Walls(M) Preset Stuatioota                       p
Owner                  building(M2) StriCtures (M')  Area (v )                            Coinpeiisation  I OOO>Oyuanl)
Xiaogou Village. Beiliu .
Shanxi   Towvnship                           Village              1           40)            21)          1 50         Opratig                   3 12                  5
Shizongtoui Village.
Zhoucun, To%siisiip    Stone pn   Villagc              2    -       91              401       280)        01    tiin                  5 84      -
Xilenggou. Lizhai     .
Townsihip            Coal   inig                        I           71              8()       42)             (peramtiig              5 11                   9
Dongfenggou, Nancun  Coal ining
'f'ownship                        Vilage                2          130             140        8()          O 13alkruptcy             1 88                   18
Nanyu Village. Daqi
Township             Bick field    Village              2          1301            140       1300          0 Bankruptcy               10 73                 18
Bianzhuang, Xiuwu    .
Coulnty              Stone pit    Village               I           51              31)       140)        1) Operating                2 60  _
Subtotal                                               9           510            450)       30)9(0        0                         38 27                  65
Changtun Village.    Lime powder
I lenan    Mengzhuang ''ownsh ip DIctory    P'rivate
Guo Xuebing          1          134          103 25       2646       857(0 Bankruptcy              0 50               24 85
(iuo Xucshu          I          145             574       1891    4662 5 B3ankruptcy                O 50              21 95
'[ian Xining         I          444               0     2409 5    1542 5 B3ankruptcy               0 50               22 )9
Weibei. Fantun       Forging
Township             Factory     IPrivate               i          216              96       1750    4292 5 Bankruptcy                0 50               19 23
DongmiaoVillage, 
iaophig Township     Wre Factory  Village              I         1074              160       2990       23(1 BankruptcX               0 50               46 44
Subtotal                                               5         2013          933 25    11685 5   19297.5                            2 50              134 55
Longwangmiao Village, Wood process
Shandong Shan County           factory      Private               I          41)6              0        500          0 Operating                0 50               16 91
Yanzhuang Village.    Brick feld
Jiunu'lTownship                   Villagec                         13)             1()0       8t)0        O Bankruptcy                0 5()               696
Subtotal                                               2          536             I(I        1300         0                            I 00              23 87



Annex 4.1 Distribution of Affeced Housing                                                         lnit: M2
Number      ol           collcctive                IPrivate                    Tot3i
Sinlgle-  Simiple           Single-  Simlple           Sinigle-   Simple
Province  County   Township  Village         I louseholds(l II 1 Buildills    Structures Buildings  story  Sructutcs Buildings  story   Strucure Total
Shanxi   Zezhou   Lizhai        Xifenggou                 2         0       0         0       150      50       40      150        50        40   240
Nancun    Dongfenggo                  3             0            0                230        0        0       230         0   230
Daqi       Nangou                     3         0      0          0        0     250        50        0       250        50   300
Nanyu                     2         0      0          0         0     160        0        0       160         0   160
Nanhedi                   I             0                      0                80   0              0        so   o8
.  .  Futou  Fangudui                 I         0      0          0       120       0        0      120         0         0   120
- Stibtotal                                       12         0      0          0      270     690       170      270       690       170  1130
Henan    Xiuwu    Anshang   Wangjiatai                    I         0       0         0         (0     50         0       0        50         0    S0
Weihui   Tangzhuai Penyao                       I         0      0          0         0u    102        0        0       102         0   102
1_'angzhai  Liuwei                    2         0      0          0      285      195        0      285       195         0   480
Yanjin    Mazhuang Changxinzh                   I                0          0         0     157        0        0       157         0   157
_ Huaxian  Banpuodia Luotangcun                  I         0      0          o   0            0        28        o         0        28    28
Subtotal                                        6         0      O          0      285    504         28      285       504        28   817
Shandong Heze       Malioiggan Zhiaolou                   I         0       0         0         0      24        0        0        24         0    24
Dingtao   Maji        Linwa                     3         0      0          0         0     IS0        0        o0      180         0   IS8
Nanwangd Songli                       I         0      0          0        0      70         0        O        70         0    70
Dawatigzhu                I         0      0          0        0       75        0        0        75.        0    75
Shanxian Dinglou    Xiaolizhuan                 I         0      0          0        0       84        0        0        84         0    84
Liuzhuang                 3         0      0          0        0     260         0        0       260         0   260
Chenli                    I         0      0          0         0      50        0        0        50         0    50
Huayuan   Baili                       6         0      0          0        0    3(0          0        0      360          0   360
_ouhuayuar                2         0      0          0      250        0        0      250         0         0   250
Longwang Longwangm                    5         0      0          0        0     360         0        0       360         0   360
Caitang    Xinyang                    I               91          0        0       70        0        0       161         0   161
Subtotal                                       25         0     91          0      250    1533         0      250      1624         0  1874
Jiangsu  |Fenxian   wggou   Saolou                        I         0       0         0         0     142       21        0       142        21   163
JLiuwanglojLiudiwanliu                 I        0       0          0  0A           27         0       0        27         0    27
Fage  of Annex 4



Gebacao                      3          0     45                     98     145          0        98        190          0    288
Wangpinglo                  0           0    260           0          0        0         0         0       260           0    260
Lizhai       Zhangzhaict                  I                    0        0 0               36          0         0         36          0     36
Tongshan Heqian         Tulou                        2          0       0           0       262       53         0       262         53          0    315
Hanwangx Hushianyang                     0          0   1466            0          o       0          o         0      1466           0   1466
Yanghucilan                 0                 146          0          0       0          o         0        146          0    146
Yangjichan                   o          0    306            0         0        0         0         0        306          0    306
Tangzhang Shiuangjinlg                    0          0    203            00                           0         0        203          0    203
Zhangji    Ercheng                        2          0     550           0         0      243         0         0        793          0    793
Yanglou                      I          00                 0          (0      8(         0         0         80          0     80
Shtuikot                    0           0     90            0         0        0         0         0         90          0     9
GluoJi       Lutai                        I          0       0           0         0      118         0         0        118          0    118
Wushiao    Xiazlang                       2                750           0         0     300         0o         0       1050           )  1050
I)amiaoxia  iotLyaocul                    0          0       0       1500          0                  0   0    (                   1500   1500
Dawu         Xiazhuang                    I          0       0           0         0      100         0         0        100          0    100
Dahuangsh Zhengzhuan                      o          0    750           0          (I       0         0         0        750          0    750
Dahuangsha                   0          0      60           0         0        0         0         0         60          0     60
Maocun    Renzhuiaig                      0          0    36(0                    0                   0o                  360         0    360
Suining   Gaoji         I lewan                      9          00                                   562        24         0        562         24    586
Zhuji        Weizhitianig                 4          0       0           0         0     384         30         0        384         30    414
8Changdadu                  5          0        0          0          0     574          0         0        574          0    574
Qiluji       L-idian                      5          0       0           0         0    1135          0         0       1135          0   1135
I-imniao                     2          0             0               0       62         0         0         62          0     62
Iingcheng' Yongfelg                       5              0              0 0        0     535          0         0        535          0|  535
__ongrne                    6           0O                 0          0     438               0    0       438           0    438
Suyu       Longhe       Dabl                         6          0      20                     0      398         0         0        418          0   418
LIuowei    GUxi                           3          0       0           n         0      155         0         0        1 55         0    155
Sihong    Cheinji       Wupu                         2                  o 0        20         0       77         0         0         77         20     97
Siyang    Tuytian       Jiefang                                       1 0  170      0         0        0         o         0        170          0    170
Qiaokou                      0          0      70           0         0        0         0         0         70          0     70
Erli                        0           0    337          68          0        0         0         0        337         68    405
Nongjichani                 0          0    2471           12         0        0         0         0       247          12    259
age  o   nnex 4            -



Jiangwei                   0          0    134           C        (        0         0        0        134         0    134
Luji        Zhangfang                                   152          0         0       (         o         0       152          0    152
Qingguang                  3          0    300           0         o     24(         0        0        540          l   540
Huangzhua                  4          0    140           o        o      260       loo        0        400        IN0   500
Daizhuang                             (    1ou          40        0                  ( I      0         0         40    140
Qiuzhang                   0          0    I0                     0        0 0 o   _  o                                 3 0
Xuezhuang                  0          0    120                     ) n     0         0        0        120         0    120
Peiwei      Chenzhuan                  0          0     40           0         o       o         0         o        40          0    40
Heping                      I         0     70           c        (1      90         o        0        160         0    360
Huaiyin   Nanchenji Chenji                   _             160h   340         160)       o       70        20      160        410       IN0   750
Xinsheng                   I               340          30        0                 30        c        34(0       60   400
Hedong                     I                50          0         0       30         0 0                80         (    80
Gaoyan    Yiezhuangc   =I                       100    270          60         0      40        30       100       310         90   500
Huaifeng                   I          0    130           0        o       60 _)               0         90         0      0Io
_______         ~~~~Zhangzho                2          0    ISO,          0        0      180         0        0        330         0   330
Qingpuqu Yanhexian Yanhe                          0               135           0 0           0             0        0        1351        0    135
Dali                       0               130           0        0        c         0        0        130         0    130
Guanzhuang                 o          0    870           c0                          0 c               870          0   870
_Baimahuno                   )        0      70         50             0              0                  70        50    120
Huai an   Sanpu       Zhouwan                     2          0    3350   0                      15 (                          485         0   485
Taozhuang                  o          0    819           c        0                  0 c               819         0   819
Xinzhuang                  0          0    460           0        0        0                  c        460          0   460
Chenzhuang                            a 0    360         0    0            0         (I        0       360          0   360
Shanghe   Shanghe                       3         0    415           0         0      18(                  0       595          0   595
Sub-total                                        82        260  11860        1940      361    6864        255      6201    18724       2195 21539
Anhui   ILingbi   iXialou   THubei                           2                 o  1                 0        2        24                  12        24     36
Xiaoxian  Duanyuan  Yaoloucun                      I         0       o          c         o      5(         0         0        50                5)
Stiblotal                  3          1       0          c         0      62        24         0        62         24     86
rotal                                                      128       260  11951        1940      1165    9653        477     1425     21604       2417 25446
Page 3 of Annex 4.1



Annex4.2  Distibution of Attached Structures To Be Demolished
Nuber       Outdoor Cement Outdoor Cement Nomber                     Number Number  Number Numbe Number Structure t
of    Walls Ground       of Ground       o      s of   Wumler of     of      of Wate of Fruit r Of Big of Small Vagetable
Province  County    Fowushi Village    Pigsy (MStoves                                                         Toilets  Pits    Trees  Trees  Trees   Growth(M2)
Shanxi   Yangcheng Beiliu    Xiaogou         0                 6000                       0       0         0       0        0 _                    _
Zezhou    Lizhai   Xilenggou       2  _                                          2       2        2       1         1       _ 
Nancuni DongfiengE       3  _                                         3       3        3       0         0 _       _           _
Daqi    Nangoul          3  _                                         3       3        3       0         0 _                     _
Nanyu          2                                            2   2    2   0    0 ___
Nanihedi       0                                            0       0         0       0        0 ___
_  Futou    faiigudui        1                                            1       1        1       1         1
Subtotal                                    11     0           6000               0      11      11        11       2        2    910    472    1180             0
Henan   Xiuwu       Anshang WanIjiata        1                                            0       0         1       0        0                     _
Mengzh  Changtun         0                 5381                       0       0        0       1         1
Fantun         0                                 1438       0       0         0       1        1
Weihui    Tangzhu Penyao            1                                            1       1        1       0         0     40    __
Panyzhai Liuwei         2   70                                        2       2        2       2         2
Yanjin    Mazhuan Changxinz        1                                             1      1         1       0         0            __
Huaxian   Banpuod Luotangcu        1                                             1       1        1       0         0            __
Gaoping Dongmiao         0                                 1648       0       0        0        1        1      20
Subtotal                                     6   70            5381            3086       5       5         6       5        5      60   4610    2145            0
Shandong Heze       Malingga Zhaolou         0                                            0       0         0       0        0       ___
Dingtao    Maj i    Linwa          3                                             3_      3        3       0         0           _        __
Nanwany Songli           1 _                                          1       1        1       0         0 _               __
.______ ._____ IDawangzh    1                                            1      1         1       0        0C           __.
Shanxian  Dinglou  Xiaolizhut       1                                            1       1        1       0         0 C               _
Liuzhuang      3                                            3       3         3       0         0                    _
Chenli         1                                            1       1         1       0         0
Hluayuan Baili           6                                            6       6        6       0         0             _       =
lloulhuayu    2                                            2       2         2       2        2             _
Longw   LongNaantg       5                                            5       5        5       0         0             _
_  Caitang  Xinyang          1                                            1       I        I       0         0                    _
Subtotal                                    24     0              0               0      24      24       24       2         2    390   1300    1950             0
Jiangsu  IFengxian  IWanggo4Shaolou          1=                                           1       1         1      0         0                 _gi_Ae_I I



I.iuwang [iudiwanli    0                                        0      0        0      0        0 
Gebacao       3                                        3 _  3  3       3       1       1
Wangpii1g       _                                      0      0        0       1       0
Lizhai   Zhaiigzhai    0                                          0    0        0      0        0
Tongshan I legian   I ulou       2   80                                 _        2        2       1       1
I'angzia Suaiigiilg   0  =0                                            0        0      0        0o
Zhangii Exceling       2  _                                     2      2        2      0        0
Yaniglou      I     I______                            1      1        1       0       0                ___
Shuikou       0                                        0      0        0       0       0   70001
Liangtang     0  _                                     0      0        0       0       0  6000                      13340
GUoj;i  LPuaIi         1                                      _ 1     1        1      0        0 
Wushao Xiazha,ig      2                                         2      2        2      0        0   1700
Darniaox Ilouyaocu    0                                         0      0        0      0        0 o
Dawu   X iazhuan       1                                        1      1        1      0        0
Dahuang Zhengzhu      0                                         0      0        0      1        1
Dahuangs      0                                        0      0        0      0        0   1 o  ooo
Maocun Renzhuan       0                                         0      0        0 o       1
Caoji   Hewan          9                                        9      9        9      0        0
Zhuji   Weizhuang    4                                  _              4        4      0        0
8Chalngda     5  -                                     5      5        5      0        0
Suining   Qiuji   Lidian         5                                        5      5        5      0        0
I-lumiao      2                _                       2      2        2       0       0
I.ingchen Youigfen     5_g  5                                   5      5        5      0        0
YoIgine       6                                        6      6        6      0        .0
suyu     Longhe  Dalu           6 _                                       6      6        6      0        0
Luowe  Guxi          3  _                                      3      3        3      0        0C
Sihong    Chenji  Wupu          2  _                                      2      2        2      0        0
Siyang   1Tuyuan  Jiclang       0 _                                       0      0        0      0        0
Qiaokou       0                                        0      0        0      0        0        
Erli          0                                        0      0        0      0        0
Nongjicha     0                                        0      0        0       0       0
Jiangwei      0                                        0      0        0       0       0
Lul3i    Zanfan        0                                        0      0        0      0        0 a_oo
Qingguan      3                                        3      3        3      0        0
Page 2 of Annex 4.2



I luangzhu _ 4                                            4       4        4       0        0           =
Daizhuang     0                                           0       0        0       0        0               
Qiuzhang       0                                           l0     0        0       0        0
Xuezhuan,      0                                          0       0        0       0        0
Peiwei  Chenzhua        0                                           0      0         0      0         0 
_ I_Jcping     1                                           1       1        1       0        0                    _
Nanchenj Chenji         1  100                                    1         1        1       1        1
Xinsheng       0                                           0      0        0       0        0 
I edong        1                                           1      1        1       0        0 _
Huaiyinri   (aoyan  Yiezhuang      1                                           1      1        1       0        0
i tiaiti'eg    1               .I.                         1      1        1       0        0 _              .
Zhangzho       2  =                                        2      2        2       0         0 _             _
Yanhexi Yanhe           0                                           0      0         0       0        0   _
I)ali          0                                          0       0        0       0        0
_ t_anzh tar    0                                         0       0        0       0        0           _
Huaiyinshiqingpuqu   Baimahun      0                         _0                       0        0       0        0
Huai'an    Sanpu   Zhouwan         21                                          2      2        2       0        0
Taozhuan       0                                           0      0        0       0        0 C _       _
X nzhuan       0                                          0       0        0       0        0                .
Chenzliuar                                                 0      0        0       0        0           _
Shanghe Shanghe         3                                           3       3        3       0        0                _
Subtotal                         79  180               0               0     79      79       79       6        5  16900  66000   10000       13340
Anhui    Lingbi   Xialou   H lubei          0                                           0      0         0      0         0               _0
Xiaoxin  I)anytiaiYaoloucun        1                                           1      1        1       0        0        
Subtotal                           1    0               0              0       1      1        1       0        0       0    900                  0
T otal                          121  250           11381           3086    120    120        121      15       14  18260 73282  15275         13340
Page 3 of Annex 4.2



Annex 5 Distribution of PAPs for House Acquisition
Ouanurv                            Occupaitons 
Province  County  Township    Village    Households HouseWhld Number ot Farmers W       Self-employed |tl h
.I                         ~~~~Poouilrono                        Wor-ke.LLL. 
Shanxi   Zezhou   Lizhai    Xifenggou    _                   7         4      4
Nancun   Dongtenggou    _        .       1         5      4 =
Daqi     Nangou                3         12        6      6
Nanvu                2          7        3  _        _
Nanhedi               I         3         2      2 
Futou    Fangudui               I  -               3         3
Subtotal                               i12        45        23    22         I            0    0
Henan    Xiuwu    Anshang  Wangjiatai  I                     5         3      3
Weihui   Tangzhua Penvao                 I         5         3      3
Panezhai Liuwei           _               s        6      6
Yanjin    Mazhuang Lehan  ,nzhua5                            3 s         -
Huaxian  Bai4 uotan cun                  I         5         3      3
Subtotal   ___ _6                                  28       IS   - 171       0I                0
Shandong Heze      Malinggar Zhaolou               I         4         2      2
Dingtao   Maii     Linwa                 3         1I        6      6
Nanwanga Songii                I         4         2  _
. ______ Dawangzhuan               _    4          2      2
Shanxian Dinglou   Xiaolizhuane          I         4         :      2
Liuzhuang            3         14        7       7
Chenli                          5        3       3   _
Huavuan  BalIi                 6         26       10      a        I I
Houhuavuan           2          8        4      4
Lonowang Longwangmia    _                19       10               I
Caitang   Xinvang               I         4        2 _
Subtotal                                2         103       50    47         2 
Jianusu   Fenxian   Wanguou Shaolou                          4         3          -
Liuwanglo Liudiwaniudu         1         41        2                               =
Gebacao               3        I 1                                _
Lizhai    Zhantzhaicun         I          3        :
Tongshan Hegiao   Tulou                  2         10        5      5
Zhangjj  Erchentg              2          9        4      2        2
Yanglou               I         4        :       2
Guoii    Lutai                                     3 5  3  2
Wushao  Xiazhang               2         8         4      4
Dawu     Xiazhuang             I         3         21                              _
Suining   Gaoil    He%van                9         37       I       12       2            I    1
Zhuji     Weizhuang            4         16        9      9
8Changdadui _                 27         I.    10                     2
Qiuji     Lidian               5         21       10      8
_Humio       2_                10         6 _ 6
Lingcheng Yonefeng        _              20        9      9
YonL'mo              6         24       II i 
Suvu     Longhe   Dalu                   6        26        12      0        2 3
Luowei   Guxi                  3         13        6      6
Sihong   Chenji   Wupu                   2         9         4      3        I       _
Sivang    Luji     Qingguang             3         14        5      5
Huangzhuang          4         IS        a      a
Peiwei   Heving           =              6      1  3      3
Huaiyin   Nanchenji Chenji         _               4         2      :2 =                     =
Xinsheng      _                 5        3      3
Hedong                I         3        2 3                             _
Gaovan   Yiezhuanocun        I            6  -                 -
Huaifeng              I         4        2      2
Zhan  hou            2          7        31    3
Hua'an   Sanpu    Zhouwan                2         4         2      :
Shanghe  Shanghe               3         14        7      5        2
Sub-total                               82        348      167    149       10           4    4
Anhui    Lingbi   Xialou    Hube,                  2         9         4      4
_ Xiaoxian |Duanvuan Yaoloucun            I  _                3 :
Subtotal             3         14        7       7
Totl                               -             128        53S      26'    242       13           6    4



Annex 6
500KV Yancheng-HuaiyinTransmission Project
PAPs' Information Booklet
Jiangsu Prinvincial Power Company
October 1997
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



1. Breif Introduction to the Project
The length of the transmission line is 770.6KM. The route of the
line is from the substation of Yangcheng Power Plant in Shanxi
Province to Huaiyin substation in Jiangsu Province.
The project consists of the sub-projects as follows.
* Three 500KV circuits from Yangcheng Power Plant to Dongming
Switch Station,
* The Yellow River crossing,
* Two 500KV circuits from Dongming Switch Station to Sanpu
Switch Station,
* A  500KV  circuit from  Sanpu Switch Station to Renzhuang
Substation
* Two 500KV  circuits from  Sanpu Switch Station to Huaiyin
Substation,
* Two 500KV switch stations (Dongming Switch Station in Shandong
Province and Sanpu Switch Station in Xuzhou, Jiangsu Province)
- TwNo substations extension projects (Renzhuang Substation and
Huaiyin Substation). Renzhuang Substation has operated for years.
Huaiyin Substation is an auxiliary project of Yangzhou No.2 Power
Plant that is financed by World Bank.
There will be 2397 power transmission towers in the project. The
line is planned to end at the entrance of Huaiyin Substation, via
Yangcheng County, Zezhou County in Shanxi Province, Xiuwu County,
Huixian County, Beizhan County of Xinxiang Municipality, Weihui
County, Yanjin County, Hua County, ChangRMB County in Henan
Province, the Yellow River, Dongming County, Heze County, Dingtao
County, Cao County, Chengwu County, Shan County in Shandong
Province, Xiao County, Lingbi County in Anhui Province, Feng County,
Tongshan County, Suining County, Suyu County, Sihong County,
Siyang County, Huaiyin County, Qingpu County of Huaiyin
Municipality, Huaian County in Jiangsu Province.
The dynamic investment of the project is 5.02 billion RMB. The
project is planned to start in January, 1998 and to be put into use in
February, 2000.
2. Resettlement Policies and Principles:
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



* Land compensation and resettlement allowance will be carried
out according to "The State Land Law of People Republic of China" and
the implemention method of relevent provinces'land laws and the
regulations of relevent cities and counties.
* The total property compensation will be paid at replacement
cost and no depreciation will be deducted.
* Compensation will be paid before the land and property are
acquired.
* Compensation will be paid before the PAPs'construction of new
houses
* Salvageable materials from the old house will belong to the
PAPs. They will be able to use these materials for the construction of
their new housing. The value of these materials will not be deducted
from the housing compensation to be paid to the PAPs.
* Compensation will be paid to the PAPs in installments, TROs
pay 70% before the PAPs begin to construct the foundation of their new
houses. The last installment of compensation will be paid before the
completion of demolishing of old houses and construction of new
houses.
See Table 1 for further information.
3



Table 1    Compensation Rates for Houses and Attached Structures
Type               Items             Comensation Rates               Notes
Building I                  400 RMB/ M-
Building 11                 360 RMB/ M2
Building 111                320 RMB/ ML          not including the cost of
Single-story House I        290 RMB/ Ml          getting water.power. road of
House   Single-story House 11       260 RMB/ M2            the new houses, and of
Single-story House III      230 RMB/ M;          leveling the field
Simple Structures           120 RMB/ M2
Pigsty                      200 RMB each
Walls                       20 RMB/ M2
Attached  Outdoor Cement Ground       20 RMB/ M2
Structures Stove                      100 RMB
Well                        800 RMB                  _
Manure Pit                  100 RMB
Toilet                      200 RMB
Fruit Tree                  300 RMB_
Big Tree                    60 RMB
Small Tree                  30 RMB               ___
Water Pit                   50 RMB
Structure   for   Vegetable 50 RMB/ M2
_Growth
Transfer Fee                           300 RMB/HH
Reclaim Fee of Former Residence Base   1000 RMB/HH
New Residence Base Tax                 2000 RMB/HH
Cost of Getting water.power. road of the 30 RMBIM2
new houses. and of leveling the field  I_                   I
3. Institutions Responsible for Resettlement Planning, Management,
Implementation and monitoring
The main institutions or agencies responsible for planning,
implementing, coordinating and monitoring of resettlement activities
are:
(1) Project Resettlement Leading Group(PRLG)
(2) Project Resettlement Office(PRO)
(3) Project Resettlement Office(PRO) of Relevant Provinces
* Shanxi Provincial PRO
* Henan Provincial PRO
* Shandong Provincial PRO
* Jiangsu Provincial PRO (including Anhui province)
4



(4) The Project Contractors
(5) County Land Management Bureaux(CLMB)
(6) East China Electric Power Design Institute(ECEPDI)
*   anx Ecrlel e                  ctnstitute
* Henan Electric Power Design Institute
* Shandong Electric Power Design Institute
* Jiangsu Electric Power Design Institute
(7) National Research Central for Resettlement(NRCR)
(8) Township Resettlement Offices(TRO)
(9) Village Committees and Groups
4. Schedule for House demonishing
Table 2    Schedule for House Removal
Activities                     Dates
Begin          End
Selection of altemative residence base  1997. 3. 1    1998. 3. 30
and consultation with PAPs
Delivery of compensation to PAPs     1998. 4. 1    1998. 12. 30
Construction of new houses           1998. 4. 1    1999. 3. 30
Delivery of the last installment of  1998. 7. 1    1999. 4. 10
compensation
Moving into new housing              1998. 7. 1    1999. 4. 10
Removal of old housing               1998. 8. 1    1999. 4. 30
Civil works                          1998. 1.1    2000. 2.30
5. Entitlement and Obligation of PAPs
* sign agreement with the PRO according to the resettlement
polices
* get house compensation based on relocation costs
* get compensation on attached structure based on quantity and
rates
* get residence base according to village planning
* duty-free for the new residence bases
* choose relocation houses
* demolish old houses and build new houses based on required
5



schedule
* grieve right
. sue to people's court if they are not satisfied with decision of
PRO
6. Grievance And Appeals
The project pays special attention on the PAPs participation
throughout the planning and implementation process. To ensure that the
PAPs have avenues for redressing their grievance and appeals,
transparent and efficient procedures of redressal of grievances have been
established for the project. The purpose is to avoid raising serious
grievance problems.
The procedures are as follows:
Stage I:
If any PAP is aggrieved by any aspect of the resettlement and
rehabilitationprogram, he / she can lodge an oral or written grievance
with the Village Administration Committee or the local TRO.
In case an oral compliant is made, it will be written on paper by
the village unit and processed. Village Administration Committee or the
TRO will resolve the issue within two weeks.
Stage 2:
If the Aggrieved person is not satisfied with the decision in stage
I, he / she can bring the complaint to the attention of the CORO   after
the receipt of the decision in Stage I. CORO will reach a decision on the
complaint within two weeks.
Stage 3:
If the Aggrieved person is not satisfied with the decision of the
CORO, he / she can bring the complaint to the attention of the PRO after
the date of the receipt of the decision in Stage 2. PRO will reach a
decision on the complaint within four weeks.
Stage 4:
If the PAP is still dissatisfied by the decision, he /she can appeal to
the Peoples Court in accordance with the "Civil Procedure Act" after
receiving the decision of the PRO.
PAPs can make an appeal on any aspect of the resettlement and
rehabilitation program, including compensation rates being offered.
6



Detailed procedures for redressal of grievances and the appeal
process is publicized among the PAPs during participation meetings and
other ways. Thus the PAPs are clear of their rights of grievance and
appeals.
7. Monitoring and Evaluation
Implementation of land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation
activities will be monitored regularly to ensure that they are carried out
in accordance with the provision's of the RAP and PAPs are well
resettled. There are two kinds of monitoring- internal monitoring and
independent monitoring.
Internal Monitoring should be carried out by project ROs, county
ROs, county Land Management Bureau, and township ROs to ensure
that all the responsible units follow the schedule and comply with the
principles of the RAP. The purpose of this internal monitoring is to
maintain the satisfactory functioning of the institution organization of
resettlement during the implementation process.
NRCR will act as the Independent Monitoring Organization(IMO)
to undertake the Independent Monitoring of the resettlement component
to observe i). the functioning of the resettlement network; ii). progress
on land acquisition and the PAPs' relocation; iii).resettlers' living
rehabilitation and iv). analysis the living standards of the PAPs .The
purpose of independent monitoring is to provide an evaluation of
resettlement by an organization independent to the project ROs., review
the overall implementation from a broader, long term point of view.
Independent monitors will follow the resettlement activities to evaluate
whether the goals of resettlement are achieved through observing i). the
application of the Laws of P.R.C. pertaining to resettlement; ii).
compliance with the principles of the World Bank's operational
Directive O.D. 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement; and iii).an
improvement in the standards of living of the PAPs or at least maintain
the pre-project levels of well-being. The IMO will serve as the adviser
to the PRO so that anticipated problems associated with the resettlement
implementation will be addressed in a timely manner.
7



Annex 7   Outline of Mornitering on 500KV Yancheng--Huaiyin
Transmission Project
1.Breif Introduction to the Project
Land acquisition and resettlement of this Project affect 5 provinces, 26
counties, 564 villages. The RAP of this Project is designed by Paratory
Office for 500KV Yangcheng-Huaiyin Transmission Project. The Project
Resettlement Office under the Paratory Office is in charge of the
organization and implemention. NRCR is in charge of the independent
momitoring and evaluation.
2. Objectives of Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation
According to the requirement of World Bank on Involuntary
Resettlement OD4.30 and World Bank technical document No.80
' Involuntary Resettlement and Rahabilitation in Development Projects --
Guidelines of Policy for World Bank Loaned Projects" (Appendix 3:
Technical Guidelines for Involuntary Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Monitoring and Evaluation) , NRCR will undertake the monitoring and
evaluation on the resettlement of this project. For this, we will make an
evaluation on the progress of relocation and rehabilitation by momitoring
the progress of resettlement , funds, management and the changes in
production and living of resettlers after the relocation. We submit regular
monitoring and evaluation report to World Bank and concerned
departments in China and the owner. At the same time, we will also give
information and suggestions to concerned departments for decision. From
these monitoring and evaluation reports , World Bank and the manage
departments can get full understanding of  land acquisition and
management. These reports can also help to identify problems along the
way of resettlement that may impede the achievement of project objectives,
and give suggestions to make it better.
3. Contents of Monitoring and Evaluation
1). Progress of Land Acquisition Implementation



/
Including: (1) progress of land acquisition ; (2) progress of the new
sites decision ;(3)progress of houses demolition; (4) progress of houses
reconstruction; (5)progress of resettlers relocation.
2). Resettlement Funds Availability and Utilization
Including: (1) Funds availability; (2) Funds utilization (planning and
actual).
3). Houses Demolition and Reconstruction
Including: (1 )houses and living environment before relocation;
(2)objectives of houses demolishing and reconstruction; (3) houses and
living environment after relocation; (4)comparative analysis and evaluation
on houses and living environment before and after relocation.
4). Production Arragement for Resettlers
Including: (1) living standard before relocation; (2) resettlers' living
after relocation; (3)comparative analysis and evaluation on resettlers'
living before and after relocation .
5). Operating Efficiency of Resettlement Implementation Organization
Including organization setting , staff and operating efficiency of
management system.
2



4.Technological Process
Sign Contract
|Compile Outline of M&E
[FDesign Survey  Program|
Baseline Survey
Create Information System on M&E
Monitoring Survey|
Socio-econom I        Monitornig                 Typical   Monitoring Typical
Survey     RFesettlement Institutions  iVillages      Household
!
Build Survey Database
Comparin AnalysisI
FCompile M&E Reror7ts
End
5. Organization of Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation
1) The National Research Center of Resettlement (NRCR) is entrusted by
Resettlement Office (RO) to take charge of the surveys, data collection and
analysis work of monitoring and evaluation, and the RO checks the results
of the evaluation.
2) NRCR sets up "resettlement monitoring and evaluation group of
500KV Yangcheng-Huaiyin Transmmission Project ". The tasks of the
group are: undertaking resettlement monitoring and evaluation of 500KV
3



Yangcheng-Huaiyin Transmmission Project under the advices of World
Bank project officials,designing the outline of resettlement monitoring and
evaluation, setting monitoring sites, on-the-spot monitoring and analysis,
compiling resettlement monitoring and evaluation reports.
3) The Resettlement Office (the RD) provides transpatation facibility for
the resettlement monitoring and evaluation group when it does on-the-spot
survey and monitoring work.
6. The Way of Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation
1). The way of monitoring and evaluation is a combination of field visit,
data collection and calculation, comparative analysis, and expert
evaluation .
2). In the monitoring and evaluation process, we have both overall
surveys and sample surveys . We do overall surveys on the progress of
resettlement implementation , funds, production and living arrangement,
oganization and management. And at the same time we also do some
sample surveys on resettlers' house reconstruction and livelihood.
3).The method of sample survey is classification random sampling method.
We will give tracing surveys on the typical households, i.e.,preparation of
tables on specific sites, gathering information at specific times , and
making comparative analysis. The principle of sampling is: picking up 2>4
typical villages per county (muncipality) involving resettlement and
picking up 3-10 typical households per typical village.
4). The methods of overall surveys are distributing tables filled out by
resettlers, interviewing resettlers, discussions and collecting some
documents.
5).  Besides written 'materials, other kind of materials  need to be
collected, for example, pictures, records, viedos and materal objects. We
have also established "The 500KV Yangcheng--Huaiyin Transmission
Project Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation Information System".
4



7. Resettlement Monitoring and Evaluation Planning
* Dec., 1997, setting up the resettlement monitoring and evaluation
group, designing the outline of Momitoring and Evaluation.
* Jan., 1998, preparing resettlement monitoring and evaluation,
including compiling the outline of survey and tables, establishing
monitoring system, identifying tasks and monitoring sites.
* Apr., 1998, the first time of monitoring and evaluation, submitting
monitering and evaluation report No. 1 (Jun)
* Apr., 1999, the second time of monitoring and evaluation
submitting monitoring and evaluation report No.2 (Jun)
* Apr., 2000, the third time of monitoring and evaluation ,submitting
monitoring and evaluation report No.3 (Jun)
5



Annex 8    Brief Introduction to Monitoring and Evaluation
Institution and Its Staff
1. Brief Introduction to Monitoring and Evaluation Institution And
Its Staff
The National Research Center of Resettlement (NRCR) is the first
research institution in the field of resettlement approved by the Ministry
of Water Resources in China, and also is the only one in the world by
now.
The National Research Center of Resettlement is situated on the
campus of Hohai University. Now it has more than 20 full-time and
part-time research staff of whom 16 are professors, associate professors
and senior engineers and 10 are lecturers and engineers. Professor Jin
Zhong qing ,deputy president of Hohai University, is director of the
center. Associate professor Shi Guoqing holds the post of deputy
standing director.Senior engineer Xun Houping holds the post of deputy
director. Senior engineer Hu Weisong is also deputy director of the
center. Some famous experts and professors are consultants of the center,
such as Zhao Renxiang, Li Tianbi, Ren Bailin,Zhou Zhihao, Liu
Langui, Fu Xiutang, Zhang Shizhong, World Bank resettlement experts
R. C. Manning, Thomas R. Williams, Zou Youlan, Zhu Youxuan, and
so on. Michael M. Cernea, the authority on Resttlement in the world,
senior consultant of World Bank, is honorary professor of the center.
2. The main tasks of NRCR:
Scientific research work concerning construction and technical
economic of projects , including power, transportation, urban , reservoir,
railway, environment, and so on, supplying with training , resettlement
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation to project
activities. Organizing the R&R training programs with EDI, resettlement
supervision, monitoring and evaluation for largescale projects both
completed and uncompleted establishment of the resettlement database,
development and application of MIS(Management Information System).
3. The working scope of NRCR:



Resettlement policy, planning, implementation,monitoring and
management concerning engineering constructions such as power,
transportation, urban construction, railway, reservoir, environment, and
so on. Social and economic planning, estate evaluation, theory and
application research on technical economics.
4.Resettlement consulting of World Bank Loaned Projects
These years, NRCR have undertaken resettlement planning,
momitoring and evaluation on 15 World Bank Loand Projects. They are:
Yangzhou  NO.2  Power  Station  500KV  Power  Transmission
Resettlement Action Planning,Jiangxi Yadong Cement Resettlement
Action Planning, Hunan Power Development Resettlement Action
Planning, Anshan Jianguo Road Traffic Passageway Resettlement
Action Planning, Base Resenoir Resettlement Action Planning, Guangxi
Guigang Navigation Resettlement Action Planning,Taihu Flood Control
Project Resettlement Momitering and Evaluation, Yangzhou NO.2
Power Station Resettlement Mornitoring and Evaluation, Hexi
Agriculture Project Resettlement Momitoring and Evaluation,
Yangzhou No.2 Power Transmission Resettlement Momitoring and
Evaluation, Hunan Power Development Resettlement Mornitoring and
Evaluation, Jiangsu Inland River Navigation Resettlement Socio-
economic Survey, Taihu Flood Control Resettlement Mid--evaluation,
Yangzhou No.2 Power Plant Resettlement Action Planning and
Consulting, Hexi Agriculture Resettlement Action Planning and
Consulting. The completeted momitoring and evaluation reports and
RAPs (Resettlement Action Plans) are appaised by World Bank experts
and recommanded as samples.
5.World Bank financed projects resettlement trainning.
In 1993, NRCR held the first international senior seminar on
involuntary ressettement and rehabilitation successfully. Since 1995,
with the support of World Bank and the Ministry of Finance in China,
NRCR and EDI have co-sponsored two seminars on the World Bank
financed system and resettlement training each year, including Word
Bank resettlement portfolio, resettlement action planning, monitoring
2



and evaluation, ARMS(Land Acquisition Resettlement Management
System), and so on.. The participants are from project offices, planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation departments of World Bank
financed projects. These projects cover power, transportation, railway,
urban construction, reservoir, agriculture and environment sectors.
These seminars have helped projects pass the appraisal of World Bank
easily and implement successfully.
6.International communication and cooperation
In Nov., 1995, Mmichael M.Cernea, the authority on resettlement
in the world and senior consultant of World Bank on sociology and
social policies, visited Hohai University and NRCR. He gave a lecture
titled "World Bank Experience and Guidelines on Involuntary
resettlement", and was engaged as a professor in honor of Hohai
University. Dr.Cemea suggested that it was foresight to set up NRCR,
the only national resettlement institution in the world, in Hohai
University. He appraised highly the research and training work done by
NRCR these years. He hoped NRCR to be internationalization and to
cooperate with World Bank more closely. In recent years, the experts on
resettlement of World Bank H.Azumi, Gordan Appleby, R.C.Manning,
Zou Youlan, Zhu Youxuan have visited NRCR and carried on academic
communication and cooperation many times.
7.Publishing
In recent years, NRCR has translated many important papers of
World Bank on resettlement, including "Resettlement and Develement",
"Involuntary Resettlement in China", "Resettlement Plan in the World
Bank Projects", "World Bank Resettlement Training Lessons", and so
on. In 1996 ,NRCR compiled "Guidelines OD4.30 for Involuntary
Resettlement and Development -- Studies on World Bank Resettlement
Policies and Experiences", which is authorized by World Bank.
8.Resettlement research
3



In the research area, NRCR has undertaken more than thirty
research tasks by now. These tasks are assigned by some departments
and institutions and entrusted by other charging departments and design-
managing institutions. By now we have completed over twenty of them.
Three of these completed tasks have passed the experts' appraisal and
have been considered to be at the leading level in China. Four projects
have passed the appraisal of the Ministry of Water Resource, the
Ministry of Electric Power, The Ministry of Transportation and the
National Science Committee in China.One project has been put into use
in the reservoir resettlement system of the country.
9.Resettlement consulting of Internal projects
In recent years, NRCR has also undertaken the resettlement
planning work on six largescale reservoir, power, transportation projects
at home. They are: Changjiang Three Gorge(the section of Wushan
County of Sichuan Province), Changzhou Hydroelectricity Station,
Gongboxia Hydroelectricity Station of Tellow River, Jinping
Hydroelectricty Station, Dongfeng Hydroelectricity Station. These
projects have passed the appraisal of he Minitry of Water Resources, the
Ministry of Electic Power and the Ministry of Transportation.
10.Organization and institution
NRCR consists of office, planning department, policy research
department, monitoring and evaluation department, information
department, training department, editorial department of "Assistance
and Development in Dam Area" and Hohai Real Estate Appraisal
Affairs of Jiangsu.
11.Brief Introduction to Staff for Resettlement Monitoring and
Valuation
Shi Guoqing, Professor, born in October, 1959, expert on resettlement
and economics, deputy principal of Technical Economics School. Hohai
University and deputy standing director of NRCR, director of Hohai
Real Estate Appraisal Affairs of Jiangsu, the consultant of the State
Council Three Gorges Dam Area Resettlement Planning Appraisal
4



Committee, researcher of the Ministry of Water Resources Policy
Research Center, memeber of reservoir economy branch of National
Hydroelectrecety Station Engineering Association.
These years, engaged in research work, planning, monitoring and
evaluation and teaching in the resettlement and technical economics
areas. Has compiled "Resettlement and Development -- World Bank
Resettlement Policies and Experiences" (chief translator)", Handbook of
Reservoir Resettlemenr" (vice chief editor), "Theory and Application of
Reservoir Resettlement System Planning "(chief writer), Proceedings of
International Senior Seminar on Resettlement and Rehabilitation"(chief
editor), " Technical Economics Handbook  (Water Resources)"
(chief editor). Has also published over seventy theses on resettlement
and technical economic.
In the field of experiences on World Bank financed projects,takes
charge of Guangxi Guigang Navigation Resettlement Action
Planning,Yangzhou No.2 Power Station to Jiangdu 500KV Transmisson
and Transformation Resettlement Action Planning, Jiangxi Yadong
Cement Resettlement Action Planning, Hunan Electricity Development
Resettlement Action Planning, Taihu Flood Control Project resettlement
monitoring and evaluation, Yangzhou NO.2 Power Plant resettlement
monitoring and evaluation, Jiangxi Yadong Cement Project, Hunan
Power Development Resettlement Action Planning, Taihu Flood Control
Project, Yangzhou No.2 Power Plant Project, Hexi Agriculture Project
resettlement monitoring and evaluation,Jiangsu Inland River Navigation
Project  resettlement  socio-economic  survey,  Demostration  on
enterprises compensation standard and economic and accounting
appraisal in Xiaolangdi Project. Cooperated with World Bank,presided
at the international senior seminar on involuntary resettlement and
rehabilitation (1993, secretary-general) and seminars on World Bank
finaced projects resettlement (1995, 1996, chairman). Engaged as a
consultant of World Band to take part in the checking group of World
Bank financed transportation projects acquisition (Nov. -Dec., 1994).
Invited to attend the Second International Resettlement Conference
(London, Great Britian, Sep., 1996), the seminar on resettlement and
rehabilitation (Indea, ASCI, June, 1994) and the seminar on resettlement
*            monitoring and evaluation (Chengdu, China, Oct., 1994).Gave lectures
on some World Bank finaced projects management seminars.
Takes responsibility for resettlement planning of seven largescale
5



projects on water resources, power and transportation. Completed over
20 research works on resettlement, has advised more than 30 graduates
of master degreem,has been awarded: the excellent teacher of the
Ministry of Water Resources,Jiangsu Province young scientific-
technical model, Jiangsu Province outstanding young teacher, and so on.
Xun Houping, born in 1965, doctor, senior engineer, deputy director of
NRCR.
Engaged in rearch works on resettlement and technical economics,
planning and training.In the field of experiences on World Bank
tesettlement, in charge of monitoring and evaluation in World Bank
financed project Yangzhou Power Plant Project, resettlement planning
in Baise Reservoir Project and Guigang Navigation Project, and
demostration work in Xiaolangdi Project enterprises compensation
standard. Took part in resettlement monitoring and evaluation in Gansu
Hexi Agriculture Project and Taihu Flood Control Project, and reasearch
work in Xiaolangdi Project resettlement accounting and economic
analysis. Presided at the Land Acquisition Resettlement Management
System (ARMS) training class with Dr.D.Fields, the World Bank expert
(April, 1995, April., 1996, Oct., 1996, Hohai University, Nanjing).
Attended the seminar on resettlement and rehabilitation of World Bank
financed projects (India, ASCI, Nov., 1994), the international seminar
on reservoir resettlement (Nanjing, Nov., 1993) and the seminars on
resettlement of World Bank financed projects. In charge of compiling
"The Handbook of ARMS" (EDI) and took part in the translation of
"Involuntary Resettlement in China", "Involuntary Resettlement and
Reconstruction" (presentations of World Bank).
In the field of experiences in resettlement in China, took charge
of resettlement planning in Qinghai Gongboxia Hydro-power Project of
Yellow River and Sichuan Yalongjiang Jinping Hydro-power Project.
These two projects have passed the appraisal of the Ministry of Electric
Power. Attended the resettlement planning in Changzhou Hydro-
power Project, Huaihe Project and Three Gorge Project, and did a lot of
work in resettlement research . Has published over 20 theses on
resettlement , "Guidelines on Assets Appraisal"( vice chief editor ),
"Theory and Application of Reservoir Resettlement System
Programming"( writer ) and "The Application of Computer Science in
Resettlement and Rehabilitation" (editor). Has a lot of expressive
6



research results and distinctive thoughts on resettlement environment
capatity , resettler production and liveing level forecast , resettlement
compensation standard, resettlement development planning, community
reconstruction, resettlement system analysis, resettlement management
system, and so on.
Ch2en Shaojun, bom in 1965, doctor, lecturer.
Engaged in research work on resettlement, technical economics
planning, monitoring, evaluation and training. In charge of or takes part
in resettlement research works in some World Bank financed projects,
including Baise Reservoir resettlement planning, Taihu Flood Control
Project Land Acquisition Monitoring and Eva uation ,Yangzhou Power
Plant Project Resettlememt Monitoring and Evaluation, Xiaolangdi
Enterprises Conpensation and some resettlement accounting and
economic analysis. Takes charge of Huanglongtan Resettlement
Development Research and Three Gorge Zhongxian Ganjing Town
Rebuild Planning, and plans an important role in resettlement planning
and research work in Meishan,Xianghongdian and Three Gorge project
of Yangtze River.Attended the international seminar on resettlement of
World Bank financed projects in India in Nov., 1995. In April.,1996,
took responsibility for the seminsar on resettlement training for World
Bank financed projects with World Bank expert Mr.R.Maning. Also one
of the main chairnan of the seminar on World Bank financed projects
resettlement in Oct., 1 996.Took part in the seminar on resettlement
mormitoring and evaluation of World Bank urban construction projects
in July, 1996.
Wu Zongfa, born in 1963 , doctor , associate professor , real estate
appraisor.
Engaged  in   research  work  on  resettlement, technical
economics ,planning , monitoring, evaluation and training. In charge of
World Bank financed project Baise Reservoir resettlement planning, and
took part in some World Bank financed projects resettlement monitoring
and evaluation, for an example, Taihu Flood Control Project. Took
charge of Three Gorge Project of Yangtze River and Huaihe Project
resettlement planning , and research work in Sanmenxia resettlement
development of Yellow River and Guangxi resettlement management
system. Also plays a role in Guangxi Hydro-power Project and
7



Gongboxia Project of Yellow River resettlement planning. Attended the
seminar on project accounting analysis in Japan in July, 1996. And one
of the main chairmen of the seminars on World Bank financed projects
resettlement in April, 1995, April, 1996 and Oct., 1996.
Yu Wunxue, born in 1963, master, senior engineer.
Engaged in research works on resettlement and technical
economics. In charge of Taihu Flood Control Project resettlement
monitoring and evaluation, Three Gorge Project of Yangtze River and
Huaihe Project resettlement planning ,Sanmenxia Resettlement
Development Project research work. Took part in resettlement planning
in Changzhou, Guigang , Jinping Project , and monitoring and
evaluation in World Bank financed projects Yangzhou Power Plant
Project and Gansu Hexi Agriculture Project. Attended the seminar on
resettlement of World Bank financed projects in India in Nov. 1995.
One of the main organization staff of the seminars held in April,1995,
April, 1996 and Oct. ,1996. Attended the seminar on monitoring and
evaluation of World Bank financed projects resettlement held by the
Ministry of Finance in Oct., 1994.
Zhu Wenlong, born in 1968, economics master, engineer.
Engaged in research work on reservoir resettlement, planning,
monitoring, evaluation and training . In  charge of resettlement
monitoring and evaluation of Gansu Hexi Ariculture Projet ( World
Bank financed ), and development of Guangxi Resettlement
Management System. Took an important role of monitoring and
evaluation of Baise Reservoir Project , Yangzhou No.2 Power Plant
Project and Taihu Flood Control Project, and resettlement planning of
Three Gorge Project of Yangtze River, Gongboxia Hydro-power Project
of Yellow River and Jinping Hydro-power Project.
8



Shanxi   Province                                                                        S              Pon
A~~~~~aghn 9         P9 JmCegC                  ioJoJngC                                            Shandong    Province             
A              Yangcheng CT                      4"4cheCR' 0  3, 
;     .-."* _ ~ q0    Xrn _xgm'g CTR                           
J.aozuo CT        Changyuan
, \ , _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                           __= __,______nun
.,  s                                                                   5hanq!ltU   C t  r   > g Zhef 9zho,Ct  Kap0f-g     _ o   
4                -I-44
t->>DOngshan C   ifi.ang TS(2XSWI)
Henan    Province                                                  H . ,       i             kf       CT
:    i  L E N G E N D                                   !                                                              CT Canhua  .p    gdO U;TS  (|x6M  TS
LENGEND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NaM.a 'pp yag~'0
. ? t Fiu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Haneng  nap7   .. -2<
Provincial  Headquarter                                                                            ani  CT2  " C
Herel: CT               Dogshaqihan TS:.TS
*                                  ~~~~~~~~County  or Cityj                                                                               sjgf9P
.E  F=     Thermal  Power Plant                  -C
500kv  Switch Station            '
/3   ~~~~~~~uCT
<,                       (g)       500kv TransformerStation 15                                                                 Fanchang,P,S                       w   UhUC
500kv   Transmission   Line   "'>,,
-.-s ---     500kv   Series Compensation Aparatus Z
CTR:  County
, 0s  D                   TS:   Substation                                                                    CONNECTION DIAGRAM IN OPERATION YEAR OF
ST:   Steel Plant                                                                   500KV YANGCHENG-HUAIYIN TRANSMISSION PROJECT
PP:      Power Plant
-;  -             



