Page  1
October 24, 2000
Mr. Zhu Guangyao 
Director General International Department, 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe Beijing 100820 
People's Republic of China
Dear Mr. Zhu
Yangzhou Thermal Power Project (Loan No. 3718); Amendment to Loan 
Agreement
1.
I refer to the Loan Agreement between the People’s Republic of China (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), 
dated September 16, 1994, as amended (the Loan Agreement), for the Yangzhou Thermal 
Power Project (the Project).  I also refer to the letter dated September 30, 2000 from 
Zou Jiayi, Deputy Director General, International Department, Ministry of Finance, on 
behalf of the Borrower, requesting an amendment to the Loan Agreement in order to 
permit the use of savings achieved under the Project to finance additional activities 
within the original objectives of the Project.
2.
I am pleased to inform you that after due consideration the Bank concurs with 
the Borrower’s proposal and hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as hereinafter 
provided.
3.
Part B of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement is amended by adding a new paragraph 
5 at the end thereof, as follows:
“5.
Provision of assistance for the preparation of a proposed pumped 
storage power 
plant project at Yixing in Jiangsu.”
4.
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendments set forth above 
by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of confirmation set forth below 
and returning one fully signed original of this amendment letter to us.  One fully 
signed original should be retained by the Borrower.
5.
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Loan 
Agreement remain in full force and effect.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of 
this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized representative of the 
Borrower, the above amendment shall become effective as of the date of 
countersignature.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Country Director, China
East Asia and Pacific Region
Confirmed: 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 25, 2000 
Page  2
