Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No.  11652
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1259-YAR)
FEBRUARY 12, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                =       Yemeni Rials (YRIs).12.00
YR 1.00                =       US$ 0.083
YRIs 1 Million         -       US$ 83,333
Year                   Rials per US$
1983           =         4.67
1984           =         5.86
1985           =         8.1
1986           =         12.25
1987           =         9.9
1988                     9.76
1989                     9.76
1990           =         12.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =       3.281 feet
1 square meter (m2)    =       10.765 square feet
1 kilometer (km})             0.621 miles
1 hectare (ha)         =       2.47 acres
1 metric ton Iton)             2,205 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACSAD                  Arab Center for Studies of the Arid Zones and Dry Lands
ARA             =      Agricultural Research Authority
AREA                   Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
ARS            =       Agricultural Research Service
CIAT           =       International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIMMYT         =       International Center for Maize and Wheat Improvement
FAO            =       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
ICARDA         =       International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas
ICRISAT        =       International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA            =       International Development Association
IFAD           =       International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA           =       International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
MAWR           =       Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
PPF            =       Project Preparation Facility
ROY            =       Republic of Yemen
SURDU          =       Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA             =      Tihama Development Authority
UNDP           =       United Nations Development Programme
YAR             =      Yemen Arab Republic
ROY            =       Republic of Yemen
GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFIMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 12, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Republic of Yemen
Agricultural Research and Development Proiect (Credit 1 259-YAR)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
Republic of Yemen - Agricultural Research and Development Project (Credit 1 259-YAR)"
prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II of the report was
prepared by the Borrower.
This project was undertaken in the then Yemen Arab Republic and it achieved
its primary objectives of establishing and supporting a semi-autonomous agricultural
research authority, and initiated some of the management measures necessary to direct
the applied research services to the needs of farmers. However, there was excessive
emphasis during the project on irrigated agriculture, and insufficient attention was given to
linkages between the research and extension services. The follow-on project (Credit
2299-YEM) addresses these deficiencies. The project is rated as satisfactory and
sustainability as likely, although budgetary provisions, for recurrent expenses, will need to
be closely monitored.
The Project Completion Report provides an adequate account of project
implementation. A single project audit is not recommended, but the project could
profitably be combined in a cluster audit with the parallel project (Credit 1 557-YDR)
undertaken in the then People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and possibly with the
follow-on project which supports research and extension in the reunited Yemens after its
completion.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1259-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
Evaluation Summary ..........                          .ii..i  ... 
I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .1
Background.1 .           Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Design and Organization. ..............2
Project Objective and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                               3
Project  Implementation   ...  .             .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .    .  4
External Assistance  ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   4
Project Results  .5...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  s
Project Impact   .5...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  s
Extension and Training   ...  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .    .  6
IDA Performance  ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
Borrower Performance   ...  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   7
Project Relationships  ...  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   7
Consulting Services  ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   7
Project Documentation  and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              8
Project Sustainability.                                                                      8
Lessons Learned  .9...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  9
II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .                            11
Background   ....  .             .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .    .  11
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              11
Project Activities   ...  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Project  Implementation   ...  .             .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .    .  12
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              13
Project  Impact   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
Future Role of AREA  ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
IDA Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             14
Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                              15
IDA-Borrower Relationships   . . . . . . . . .15
Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
III. SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA
Tables
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .    .    17
2. Project Timetable ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .   .  18
3. Cumulative Disbursements .               .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
4. Project Results: A. Direct Benefits .            .      .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
B. Agricultural Benefits             . . . ... .  22
C. Project Implementation .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . .    23
5. Project Costs and Financing: A. Project Costs .  . . . . . . . . . . .    24
B. Project Financing  .    . . . . . . . .    25
6. Status of Covenants .           .         .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
7. Use of Bank Resources: A. Staff Inputs .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27
B. Mission Data .     .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Map IBRD 16181RI



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1259-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) relates to the Agricultural
Research and Development Project which was designed for the Yemen Arab Republic
(YAR - now the Republic of Yemen ROY) and for which Credit 1259-YAR in the amount
of SDR 5.4 million was approved on August 11, 1982. The International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) matched IDA's credit in cofinancing the project
with a loan of SDR 5.25, while the Italian Government participated in parallel
financing of the project with a US$8.0 million equivalent loan and US$0.9 million
equivalent in grant under a bilateral agreement with the Government of the
Republic of Yemen. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1991, three-and-a-half
years behind schedule. A total of SDR 5.38 M was disbursed from IDA credit, and
the unutilized balance of SDR 0.02 M was cancelled; final disbursement was made
on May 6, 1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division of
the Country Department II, Middle East and North Africa Region, (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II). Its
preparation commenced in November, 1991 and is based, inter alia, on the findings
of a PCR mission and on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit
Agreement, supervision reports, the final report of the FAO Chief Technical
Advisor to the project, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, and internal
IDA memoranda.






- iii -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1259-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The Agricultural Research and Development Project was designed to
develop research operations throughout the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR). A similar
project (Agricultural Research and Extension Project - Cr. 1557-YDR) was
implemented simultaneously in the Peoples' Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY).
In 1990, towards the end of project implementation, the two countries unified to
form the Republic of Yemen (ROY). At this time, all agricultural research
operations were unified within an Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
(AREA). Although the geographic area of ROY is almost equally divided between
the Northern (ex YAR) and Southern (ex PDRY) governorates, only about 9 percent
of farmland and 17 percent of the population are in the south. The agricultural
resources of ROY are, therefore, mostly contained in the Northern governorates
(ex YAR) which were covered by this project.
Background
2.       ROY has an estimated population of 12 million and a geographic area of
550,000 sq. km. The land, ranging from coastal plains to highlands with an
altitude of about 3,750 m, consists mostly of barren rock or scrub. Annual
rainfall is largely in the range 100 mm to 500 mm but rises to 1,200 mm in higher
areas. Scarce and diminishing supplies of fresh water restrict the annually
cultivated area to 1.4 million ha, including 320,000 ha irrigated from spate
flows (60 percent) or groundwater (40 percent), and about 1 million ha rainfed.
Woody vegetation/forest, extended to some 2.5 ha in the 1970s but has diminished
seriously; and rangelands cover some 15 percent of the territory. Livestock, an
important resource, consisting mostly of nomadic- sedentary sheep and goats
(estimated 6.5 million head), cattle (1.0 million head), and poultry (40 million
head - half under intensive production). An estimated 7.3 million people (60
percent of the total population) live in rural areas and some 1.8 million people
work and depend directly on agriculture (equivalent to 58 percent of the total
labor force).
3.       Output from crops, livestock and fisheries accounts for 20 percent of
total GDP. Of this, crop production is estimated to contribute 75 percent (of
which: cereals and by-products, 47 percent; tree crops, 12 percent; vegetables,
8 percent; forage, 20 percent; and other crops, 13 percent), livestock



- iv -
contributes some 20 percent, and fisheries about 5 percent. Livestock is an
important and expanding resource, largely nomadic/sedentary sheep and goats
production. Output from woody biomass is estimated to contribute under half a
percent to agriculture GDP. The specter of diminishing water resources,
deforestation and neglected maintenance of the traditional water harvesting
terraces threatens the basis of rainfed agriculture and increases the risk of
erosion. Yet agriculture is likely to remain an important sector, especially in
view of the limited oil and mineral reserves and the restricted potential for
industrial development.
Project Concept and Objectives
4.       The Agricultural Research and Development Project (ARDP) was designed as
the third phase of research development, building on the pilot activities
established under two UNDP-assisted projects. In addition, this development was
viewed as critical for supporting the emerging strategy for decentralizing
agricultural development to regional development agencies (RDAs) in the major
agro-ecological regions, for which IDA was financing a series of rural
development projects (RDPs). Through strengthening research administration, the
project was expected to improve the impact of the previously diffuse and
uncoordinated research assistance from various sources. ARDP was jointly
cofinanced with the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and
the Government of YAR. The Government of the Republic of Italy provided parallel
financing.
5.       The project's main objectives were:  (i) to develop a semi-autonomous
agricultural research authority with a mission to analyze and address farmers'
needs, to solve their problems, and to evaluate and transfer technological
advances in the five agro-ecological regions; (ii) to increase adaptive research
operations in agro-ecological regions in the West (Tihama) and in the Central
Highlands (Dhamar), including establishing a system for permanently financing
such operations; (iii) to extend adaptive research and extension to a third
agro-ecological region (South - Taiz); and (iv) to develop a training program for
research scientists.
Project Description
6.       In order to meet the project objectives, provisions were included for:
(a) civil works and physical development for establishing combined central
support services and regional research center in the Central Highlands and a
regional research center in the Tropical Lowlands, including offices,
laboratories, ancillary buildings and housing; (b) civil works for two extension
supervision centers and nine extension centers in the central highlands; vehicles
and farm equipment, furniture for offices, houses and laboratories, research
instruments and equipment; (c) equipment and material for a central library; and
(d) research farm development for the Central Highlands and Tropical Lowlands
regional research centers. It also provided for 50 man-years of long-term and 20
man-months of short-term technical assistance, recruited internationally, in
addition to provision of long and short-term overseas graduate training.



v
Project Implementation
7.       The UNDP projects which preceded ARDP created the foundation for future
development through initiating pilot experimental work and establishing trials
for new varieties of field and vegetable crops and fruit trees, mostly centered
at Taiz in the southern highlands. In particular, it provided training for
Yemeni researchers who received MScs and PhDs from reputable international
universities. This initial group of trainees returned during the implementation
of ARDP to form the nucleus staff for the agricultural research centers. An
important factor attracting qualified returnees to ARA was the creation of a
professional cadre for research scientists, equivalent to the system in the
University of Sana'a, that ensures a greatly improved salary scale.
8.       The ARDP was executed by ARA (transformed into AREA in 1990).  Its
headquarters were established in Dhamar; and research stations, with fully
equipped laboratories and field facilities, were established at Dhamar and
Surdud. Also, the research work initiated by the UNDP projects at Taiz was
expanded.
9.       In addition, towards the end of the project, agricultural research
facilities were initiated at El Baun and Mareb, in the North and East,
respectively. This represented an advancement on the plan development of a
national research network and was prompted by the initiation of RDPs in these
regions, which had need for specific regionally oriented agricultural production
packages. It also represented a departure from the project objectives by
accelerating the proposed developments. In the event, as these regions were
administratively less advanced and because of the restricted resources available
to ARA, these initiatives were restricted to initiating limited trials and
experimentation.
10.      With few exceptions, disbursement of IDA and IFAD funds proceeded well.
There were some delays in the procurement of laboratory instruments and the field
irrigation distribution system equipment for Dhamar and Surdud research farms.
However, disbursement from an Italian Government Loan for financing staff housing
in Dhamar and Surdud ceased in 1988 when the Italian contractor went bankrupt
after completing about half of the works. No replacement has been appointed,
despite constant efforts by the PMU and interventions by the Minister of
Agriculture and Fisheries and the Italian Ambassador to Yemen. As a result,
there were no housing facilities for most of the research staff at Dhamar and
Surdud, requiring them to commute long distances to their respective research
stations. Additionally, recruitment of technical assistance personnel under the
Italian Grant was slow due to restricted recruitment opportunities.
Project Results
11.      The strengths and weaknesses in project performance can be summarized as
follows:
(i) a viable research organization was successfully established centered at
Dhamar and research stations were supported in three agro-ecological
regions and initiated in the remaining two -- this exceeded the project
objectives;



- vi -
(ii) a strong team of research scientists was created and complemented by
high standards of staff training; however, the impact of these personnel
was limited during project implementation, by their absence on training;
(iii) a system of research planning and review was established; however, as
the annual research programs did not reflect the developing nature of
the resources, they tended to be over ambitious and efforts were too
widely dissipated;
(iv) research/extension outreach was initiated with the RDAs, for delivering
new technologies and for training of the subject matter specialists;
however, limited availability of personnel meant that the application of
this support was insufficient; and
(v) improved varieties of field, vegetable crops and fruit trees were
released and improved production practices were introduced; these
enhanced farmers productive capabilities, especially in the Southern
Upland and Tihama; however, these were mostly focused on irrigated
varieties, rainfed cropping and adaptive technologies were not
highlighted and livestock research activities were limited.
Sustainability
12.      The expanding population and the limitations imposed on agricultural
production by scarce soil and water resources, low rainfall, and a harsh climate,
mean that innovations in the development of new technologies are central for
increasing the country's food and feed needs. The authorities in ROY realize this
fact and, therefore, are continuing to give research and extension activities
high priority. The essential infrastructure for agricultural research has been
established and a core of qualified research scientists has been developed.
These will be consolidated under the Agriculture Sector Management Support
Project (ASMSP - Credit 2299-YEM) which became effective in July 1992. In
addition, ASMSP will assist in: (i) strengthening research planning and
administration; (ii) prioritizing research programs; and (iii) developing
research/extension outreach.
13.      It is important that AREA should establish and agree with the Government
a clear, long-term program for improving research efficiency, including a precise
plan for allocation of budget resources for investment and operating
expenditures. This will provide a sound basis for deciding agricultural research
priorities.
Lessons Learned
14.      The main lessons learned from this project concern the following:
(i) the need for adopting a cautious development program which reflects the
time lags implied by fundamental project actions, especially long-term
training;
(ii) the need for realistic research programming that reflects the
constraints of the development cycle and physical and financial
resources;
(iii) cross financing between IDA projects should be avoided;



- vii -
(iv) where parallel cofinancing arrangements are involved, care should be
taken to minimize the risk that the components so financed would
jeopardize the impact of Bank funded operations;
(v) bilateral cofinancing agreements should try to avoid restricting
provision of services to nationals from the donor country; however,
where this is a statutory obligation of the donor, the agreement should
stipulate contractual obligations and provisions for ensuring
continuation of developments in the event of major change in the
supplier's circumstances; and
(vi) the need to ensure adequate recurrent funds for personnel and operating
expenses on a timely basis.
15.      On the positive side, the project staff learned the value of focussed
research programs and the necessity of adequate extension/research linkages, all
of which instilled professional seriousness in the research staff and is the main
focus of the follow-up, consolidating ASMSP.






REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity:
Project Name: Agricultural Research & Development
Credit No.  : 1259-YAR
RVP Unit    : MENA
Country      : Republic of Yemen (previously Yemen Arab Republic)
Sector       : Agriculture
Subsector   : Research and Extension
Background
1.       This project was designed to develop agricultural research in the
Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) which, in 1990 unified with the Peoples' Democratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to form the Republic of Yemen (ROY). Agriculture is
the single most important sector in ROY and more than 90 percent of the sector
activities occur in the Northern governorates (previously YAR). An estimated
1.4 million ha are cultivated annually, of which, some 320,000 ha are
irrigated (from wadi spate flows (60 percent] or from controlled sources (40
percent]) and about 1 million ha are rainfed. An estimated 60 percent of the
population live in rural areas and 58 percent of the labor force are directly
dependent on agriculture. An estimated 40 percent of the traditional cropping
occurs on terraces built on the steep hillsides in the centrally situated
highlands. Livestock form an important integral part of the farming systems
and constitute an estimated one million cattle, 6.5 million sheep and goats
and 350,000 camels and donkeys. The national poultry flock numbers 40 million
head, split equally between indigenous, scavenging breeds and intensive
hybrids.
2.       Continuous, uncontrolled exploitation has diminished both density and
area of Yemen's forest, from some 2.5 million ha in 1970, to 4 million ha of
open woodland and scattered shrubs. Rangelands are estimated at 8 million ha.
Most land is cultivated by individual farmers and is divided between cereals
(47 percent), forage (20 percent), tree crops [coffee, fruit and qat -- a
mild, non-addictive stimulant] (12 percent), vegetables (8 percent) and others
(13 percent). Agricultural output in the 1980s was characterized by stagnant
production levels and low yields, but with increasing market orientation by
farmers to high value crops, especially fruit and vegetables. Production
estimates indicate that: (i) outputs of traditional staple crops (rainfed
sorghum and millet) declined in 1980s, while wheat and maize doubled (mostly
irrigated or in high rainfall areas); (ii) other field crops, including
limited quantities of pulses and oil seeds expanded, while vegetables and
fruit production was mostly static; (iii) traditional permanent crops of



- 2 -
cotton (South) and coffee (highlands) have declined, although planting of
fruit trees has expanded dramatically; and (iv) irrigated forage crops
(especially alfalfa) expanded steadily.
3.       During the 1980s, the contribution by agriculture to GDP in YAR
declined from 25 percent to about 20 percent, reflecting deterioration in
output due to persistent drought, inadequate technical support incentives for
producers, and relatively higher growth rates in other sectors. Domestic food
production has been insufficient to meet the demands of the growing population
and increasing standards of living, and imports of food and live animals have
increased steadily, to exceed US$400 million in 1990 (3 percent of GDP).
Wheat and flour, rice and meat constitute the major food commodity imports.
Project Design and Organization
4.       Background and Organization.  Agricultural research in YAR was
initiated in the 1970s through two UNDP projects which were executed by IDA
through FAO Trust Fund Agreements. These projects consisted of pilot actions
in the rainfed Southern Highlands (Taiz), the supplemental irrigated
escarpment lands, and the wadi-irrigated lowlands (Tihama). At the same time,
several crop-specific research developments were financed separately by
bilateral organizations in various regions and supplementary funding for
specific agro-ecological purposes was also provided by IDA to support major
regional development projects (RDPs) which support Government's efforts to
decentralize agricultural development through rural development agencies
(RDPs) in the principal agro-economic regions. These include: Tihama
Development Authority (TDA, 1978 - western coastal plain, based at Hodeidah),
Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit, (SURDP, 1975 - based at Taiz),
Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project (CHADP, 1985 - Dhamar and
Sana'a); and later: Sana'a, Saadah and Hajjah Agricultural Rural Development
Authority (SSHARDA, 1988 - based at Amran), and Eastern Region Agricultural
Development Authority (ERADA, 1988 - based at Marib).
5.       Research was originally organized from Taiz, but ARA established a
new headquarters at Dhamar in the Central Highlands, from where it supervised
a network of stations and substations located in the four other ecological
regions of the country. The Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) was
established in 1983 under the Agricultural Research and Development Project
(ARDP). At this time, research administration was moved to Dhamar where an
administrative center was established together with research facilities for
the Central Highlands agro-ecological region. ARA was charged with planning,
coordinating and implementing adaptive research, developing a cadre of
research scientists, and fostering and strengthening links with institutions
engaged in education and extension.
6.       Building on the foundations created by the UNDP projects, the ARDP
was well-prepared, its timing was appropriate, and it was designed to
coordinate research efforts of the various bilateral agreements in different
parts of the country. The establishment of ARA set a clear mandate for
developing Yemen agricultural research based on five agro-ecological regions,
with support from technical assistance (TA) specialists recruited under FAO
Trust Fund arrangements and bilateral assistance.



- 3 -
7.       At unification of the Northern and the Southern governorates in 1990,
the Ministries of Agriculture from YAR and PDRY were combined to form the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR). At this time, five of the
agro-ecological research regions were extended to incorporate the main
research stations in the Southern Governorates (El Kod and Seiyun) and the
Agricultural Research and Extension Authority (AREA) was created for
administering agricultural research and for coordinating extension services,
nationally. AREA operations are centered at Dhamar, and the two research
stations in the South (El Kod and Seiyun) were incorporated. AREA operations
are controlled by a Board of Directors, headed by the Minister of MAWR, and
managed by a Director General, a Deputy Director General and two Assistant
Deputy Directors General, one for Extension, and the other for Research.
Project Obiective and Description
8.       The project's main objectives were:
a)   to develop a viable Agricultural Research and Development Authority
(ARA) for solving farmers' problems and for evaluating technology
transfer in the five agro-ecological regions;
b)   to increase adaptive research operations in agro-ecological regions
in the West (Tihama) and in the Central Highlands (Dhamar) and to
establish a system for permanently financing such operations;
c)   to extend adaptive research and extension to a third agro-ecological
region (South - Taiz); and
d)   to develop training and incentives for Yemeni research scientists.
9.       In order to meet the project objectives, provisions were included
for:
a)    Civil works for:  (i) developing comprehensive facilities for a
research center and research station in the Central Highlands (at
Dhamar) and a research station in the Tropical Lowlands (at Surdud,
Tihama); and (ii) extension facilities (two block centers [BC] and
nine extension centers (EC]) for initiating extension operations in
the Central Highlands.
b)    Vehicles and equipment for:  (i) field operations for research and
extension personnel; (ii) laboratory furniture and equipment;
(iii) tractors and implements for developing research farms;
(iv) furniture and equipment for establishing a library for ARA; and
(v) materials and operating expenses for research stations.
c)    Technical assistance and training for:  (i) long-term experts (50 man
months) and short-term specialists (20 man months); (ii) training
fellowships for M.Sc. degrees (23) and PhD. qualifications (9);
(iii) assistance in establishing effective research administration;
and (iv) preparatory studies for establishing research stations in
the last two agro-ecological regions (Northern and Eastern).
10.      The project was oriented to solving specific farmers' problems in the
each of the agro-ecological regions. The design also stressed the development



- 4 -
of human resources in applied agricultural research technology in the three
key agro-ecologic regions of YAR [West (Tihama), South (Taiz) and Central
Highlands (Dhamar)].
Proiect Implementation
11.      ARA was responsible for coordinating project implementation and
research programs were based on the objectives of the country's development
plans. Programs were formulated by ARA staff and approved during annual
National Agricultural Research Coordination Workshops with inputs from MOA
general departments, the RDAs, and project managers. These programs were
subsequently endorsed by the ARA Board of Directors which subsequently
reviewed progress at quarterly Board meetings. regular liaison was maintained
with relevant agricultural international centers, e.g.: the International
Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), the International
Center for Research in the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), the International
Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA), and Centro Internacional
Mejoramiento Maize y Trigo (CIMMYT). This has enabled the location of
technical and material support for training research cadres, the introduction
of new crops, and guidance on research programs.
12.      Most of the civil works planned under the project were completed
(except for the housing planned under the Italian Loan), including a central
headquarters and regional stations; similarly, the procurement of vehicles,
laboratory instruments and field equipment were completed. Postgraduate
training was provided for 40 research scientists, thereby significantly
strengthening the national technical research cadres. The project further
produced reports, organized workshops and developed partial contacts with the
RDAs.
External Assistance
13.      Under a bilateral agreement, the Government of Italy provided a grant
and a loan for the construction of staff housing plus ancillary buildings
identified under the project, at Dhamar and Tihama. However, due to the
bankruptcy of the contractor (para. 32), this was disrupted and seriously
affected the efficiency and the morale of the research staff, many of whom
were forced to commute to the site of these two stations on a weekly basis.
14.      IFAD worked closely and effectively with IDA in executing the
project, and FAO coordinated the technical assistance component (covering
soils, irrigation, institution development, and genetic resources management)
under a Trust Fund agreement with the Government (UNDP funding), while
additional experts were financed under the Italian Grant. Furthermore, UNDP
provided parallel funding with FAO technical expertise, to support specialist
technical support projects in soils, irrigation, institutional development and
genetic resources management. Other, parallel assistance under bilateral
agreements included: USAID-financed documentation center at MOA Headquarters
(Sana'a), increasing agricultural statistical capabilities and development of
horticultural nurseries; ODA supported the veterinary sector, while the GTZ
assisted in forestry and plant protection activities; the Government of
Netherlands provided assistance in the production of seed potato, while the



- 5 -
EEC was engaged in the production of improved seeds of major field crops.
Proiect Results
15.      On the positive side, the project made significant progress in
strengthening the capability of ARA, in planning and implementation of
problem-oriented research on different agricultural commodities, in
establishing links with extension, in developing a cadre of Yemeni research
scientists, and in attracting complementary support from bilateral sources.
In a production context, project actions emphasized cropping, resulting in
improved technical packages for increasing yields of major field and vegetable
crops. A number of crop varieties such as millet, wheat, maize, grain
legumes, and vegetables (notably onions, okra, cabbage, and tomatoes and
potatoes) were introduced as well as new fruit tree varieties such as mangoes,
apples, peaches, and sapota. Pests and disease damage potential were
diminished through selection of resistant crop varieties (wheat), development
of improved cultural practices (banana, water melon), and the development of
recommendations for pesticides (dates, maize and sorghum). Research in animal
production was less significant and was directed towards selection of local
breeds and upgrading nutrition of sheep and goats. Other activities
(initiated in a small way) included soil and water analyses, on the basis of
which soil and water maps have been produced for selected areas of the
country.
16.      In a less positive sense, the project objectives were overambitious,
especially relative to the short, five-year implementation period and the fact
that a major part of the research scientists were overseas on training for
much of the implementation period. The main weaknesses in project performance
was the lack of coordination in research work and the subordination of
transfer of information to farmers.   Neglect of certain research topics, such
as rainfed farming (which occupies 80 percent of cultivated land), legumes,
industrial crops, rainfed cropping, livestock productivity, irrigation
technology and mechanization, and farming systems, all limited project impact
and prevented the programmed development of regular liaison with the RDAs.
Project Impact
17.      The project initiated research operations in the five main agro-
ecological zones, and obtained results which helped in increasing some crop
yields, especially for crops such as maize, sorghum, wheat, and vegetables.
Yield increases of these and other crops ranged from 50 to 300 percent in
demonstration plots on farmers fields, compared with traditional practices and
local varieties (see Table 6-B). The new releases of wheat varieties, Aziz
and Mukhtar, have achieved a yield of 5-6 T/Ha under supplementary irrigation.
The release of new varieties contributed significantly to the achievement of
national self-sufficiency in vegetable production in the 1980s and the
initiation of small-scale export markets in tomatoes and peppers to
neighboring countries. However, overemphasis on controlled irrigation
cropping meant that developments for rainfed agriculture and spate irrigation
received were neglected and only a moderate progress was made in the



- 6 -
improvement of a research on livestock production (including forage
production).
18.      At the same time, the project would have had greater impact had ARA
adopted a less ambitious research program, which meant that limited resources
were spread too thinly. This resulted in less focussed research, decreased
accuracy, and limited outreach application. In addition, the lack of housing
facilities at Dhamar and Surdud research stations decreased efficiency and
disrupted attendance.
19.      Linkages between research and farmers varied:  a system of meetings
with extension workers and farmers were initiated to address farmers' needs.
However, in practice, outreach activities received low priority. The main
constraint is the low academic level of the extension staff, most of whom have
only 2-3 years of high school education. Additionally, the inaccessible areas
and limited transport facilities restricted staff movements in some areas.
The research staff also found it difficult to coordinate their research
responsibilities with extended involvement with the extension staff,
especially under the existing conditions of inadequate roads and lack of
sufficient transport needs.
Extension and Training
20.      Although the agricultural research staff have backstopped the
extension service through involving them in the verification trials, and
participating in the training programs organized and executed by the RDAs, ARA
gave low priority to these activities. The main reason was disproportionate
attention to research priorities, insufficient operating funds, and inadequate
transport facilities for regular field visits. On the other hand, an extension
system capable of promoting and transferring new technologies and management
systems to the largest number of farmers was in its formative stage throughout
the implementation period. The extension service system has expanded rapidly
since its inception in the 1970s. Currently there are some 450 extension
agents throughout the country, working under the RDAs, and under the
provincial agricultural offices in areas not covered by existing RDAs.
IDA Performance
21.      IDA performed well during preparation, appraisal, and implementation
of the project, review missions were generally coordinated and provided
assistance in the training and procurement needs of the project. It also
assisted in the coordination of project activities by cofinanciers, including
IFAD, FAO and the bilateral agencies involved (including trying constantly to
impress upon the Italian authorities the importance of completing the staff
housing needs). However due to certain legal technicality the problem remain
unresolved at completion, although the Italian Government is endeavoring to
assign a substitute contractor to complete the housing construction.
Furthermore regular Bank missions assisted ARA management in various aspects
of ARA activities, especially in matters of procurement, training, recruitment
of consultants, and improvement of linkages with the RDAs and the
International Agricultural Research Centers.



-7-
Borrower Performance
22.      The Borrower performed reasonably well:
(i) ARA was established as agreed in the project documents;
(ii) agricultural areas were procured for experimental works at Dhamar,
Surdud, Amran and Mareb, as well as for residential purposes for
research personnel;
(iii) the Government enacted legislation to create a professional cadre for
research personnel, with remuneration levels equivalent to university
scales; this was significant in attracting and retaining trained
researchers and improving their application to their work;
(iv) contributions from local funds for investments were fully met;
however,
(v) although provisions for operating expenses were increased, this was
sometimes inadequate in timing and/or amount.
While the support from the Ministry of Agriculture was positive, the
Ministries of Planning and Finance were reluctant to increase ARA funds, due
to the long-term nature of the impact from research compared to the instant
results from civil works. The ministries (agriculture in particular) also
needed to step up their involvement in discussions and supervision of the
project, especially as part of IDA missions.
Project Relationships
23.      The project enabled ARA to develop a constructive role in the
agriculture sector. The research staff established effective relationships
with the aid agencies involved, as well as maintaining professional relations
with the International Agricultural Research Centers, which assisted in the
provision of valuable material for testing and training. Additionally,
international staff visiting the project from these centers were asked to give
lectures on topics of interest to the local staff.
Consulting Services
24.      The technical assistance personnel hired under the project were
recruited under an FAQ technical cooperation agreement. FAQ also managed the
Technical Assistance staff provided under the Italian Grant. In addition, the
Governments of the Netherlands, UK, provided additional consultants and short-
term specialists were financed by the UNDP. Due to alternative personnel
recruited for bilateral programs and resistance to using IDA funds for TA
within the Ministries of Agriculture and Planning and Development, the
original plan for financing 50 man-years of TA was reduced to 17 man-years.
This consisted of a research administrator (also CTA) and specialists in
livestock production and communications.
25.      In the event, the consultants provided a leadership role,
particularly in research administration and the development of services. In
addition, short-term consultants included specialists in areas of field crops,
horticulture, plant protection, and soils. Additionally, UNDP provided
expertise for creating a plant gene bank. The TA personnel were a high



- 8 -
calibre and assisted in formulating experimental programs and establishing a
follow-up system. They were instrumental in realizing ARA's goals of
establishing a sound scientific basis for carrying out regional agricultural
research programs. Their training function was mostly successful and towards
the end of their assignments all advisors effectively handed responsibility to
their respective counterparts. Although the recruitment of TA personnel in
line with the SAR proposal would have had a more significant effect on
establishing research programs, this impact would inevitably have been
affected by the reduced presence of Yemeni scientists who were pursuing
advanced degrees.
26.      The consulting engineers that were contracted to design the research
buildings and to supervise construction were excellent. The Italian
Government recruited its own consultants to supervise the works financed under
its bilateral agreement. Recruitment of technical assistance staff provided
under the Italian Grant was slow.
Proiect Documentation and Data
27.      The project appraisal report and working papers were useful
references for project supervision. Numerous technical reports, annual
progress reports, research publications, technical communications and
extension pamphlets were issued under the project. A particularly valuable
development was the establishment of annual scientific research reports.
These documents were distributed to the university, to MOA staff and
technicians in the RDAs, especially for training extension personnel. The
reports thus published were generally informative and of good quality.
28.      Under the project, a library, which collects published and
unpublished reports on the experimental findings, in addition to documenting
scientific periodicals and journals received externally was maintained.
However, the library is still in the formative stage and would require
additional technical assistance and qualified permanent local staff to become
the source library for ARA technical staff.
29.      To assist the extension service, ARA, under the guidance of a
consultant, prepared audiovisual aid tapes and videos on experimental findings
or on general farming operation for staff use or for broadcasting on radio or
TV for the benefit of the farming community. The unit started well, but its
sustainability is in doubt after the departure of the expatriate staff due to
lack of experienced Yemeni personnel for organizing the activities of the
unit. However, provisions have been included for strengthening this operation
under the follow-up project, the Agriculture Sector Management Support Project
(ASMSP).
Proiect Sustainability
30.      Since its inception in the mid-seventies, the agricultural research
service has steadily expanded. The authorities have followed up the
beneficial impact of the research efforts in the country. New varieties of
crops were introduced, production from local cultivars was improved through
selection and better agronomic management, resulting in high yields, notably,



potatoes, tomatoes, cabbages, maize, and tropical fruit trees. These
developments have led to continuous support to research efforts, through
provision of housing, laboratories, nurseries, and regular training of the
Yemeni research scientists in the art of plant and animal improvement. In the
context of the unified ROY, the combination of two research units and the
lessons from the respective IDA- assisted project (para. 1) are already
yielding benefits in the design of research programs and procedures. It is
expected that assistance to research will continue as a priority for funding
under MAWR. However, in the context of the Government's present restricted
budgetary resources resulting from an adverse macroeconomic environment and
the funding needs of the unified country, special attention will be required
for ensuring adequate funding for essential recurrent expenditures, including,
for example maintaining library supplies. This will be critical for future
project sustainability
Lessons Learned
31.      Despite ARA's positive achievements under the project, the full
benefits anticipated at appraisal probably were not realized, for the
following reasons: (i) the delay in the construction of the residential
facilities at Dhamar and Surdud; (ii) the fragmented approach to research
developments, with financing included under several different IDA projects
(Central Highlands RDP [Cr. 1453- YAR], Fourth Tihama ADP [Cr. 978-YAR), and
Second Southern Region ADP [Cr. 1067-YAR]); (iii) the absence of research
scientists for training overseas during much of the implementation period
limited the capacity for research work; (iv) intermittent shortages of recur-
rent funds, especially for personnel and operating expenses; (v) the research
program has been too broad and ambitious, thereby preventing adequate in-depth
focus on priority topics; and (vi) the transfer of information and
technologies to farmers has been inadequate, due to insufficient liaison with
RDAs.
32.      The delay in the construction of the staff housing caused many
problems for the research staff. This component was parallel financed by loan
from the Italian Government. The associated bilateral agreement required that
the contractors and the material for the agreed construction be procured from
Italy. Unfortunately, due to financial problems the selected contractor
relinquished work when construction was only about half finished. Awarding to
a different contractor was difficult since awarding was restricted to Italian
nationals only, in addition to the stage at which the work was abandoned and
certain legal technicality which made the transfer difficult. Cofinancing of
this housing component was very important; however, the experience underlines
the importance for the associated agreements to provide for aid agencies to
act expeditiously to resolve problems that arise during implementation.
33.      The Italian grant, earmarked for hiring Italian consultants under the
project, was only partially effected due to the shortage of qualified Italian
applicants for the proposed positions. As in the case of the housing
facilities, non-Italian nationals were ruled out, which delayed filling the
posts for some time. Furthermore, the staff recruited under this grant were
administered under different rules, thereby complicating administrative
management. However, two qualified horticulturists were finally appointed who



- 10 -
came under the umbrella of FAO Trust Fund Agreement for administrative and
technical supervision. It was difficult at negotiations to anticipate the
problems that arose during implementation. However this incidence would
become a lesson for such future bilateral arrangement, involving a major
project component and that, perhaps, some provisions are laid down at
negotiations for resolving problems which might arise during project
implementation.
34.       Another lesson learned is that care should be taken in the case of
cross financing between IDA projects. Management of a project carrying
specific components from other projects whose disbursements are elsewhere
controlled tends to cause delays. In the case of this project ARA shared
specific funds with six RDPs for financing several research components (and
one for constructing extension centers for CHADP financed under ARA). This
situation caused continuous tension between managers of these projects and
that of ARA.
35.      On the positive side, the project brought out the importance of
simplified focussed research, of the need for more outreach programs to link
researchers with the extension staff, to gain more assurances that a new
technology is applicable on farmers fields. The project also emphasized the
importance of prioritizing research based on area demand, supported more
frequent field visits, and encouraged a better work attendance record by
researchers.



- 11 -
PART II : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Background
1.       In this part of the report, an analysis of key issues related to the
project and a retrospective assessment of project implementation from the
Borrower's perspective will be worked out considering issues reviewed in
Part I. As a result, drawbacks would be identified in order to improve future
project preparation, appraisal and implementation stages. In the first part,
main elements of the project were reviewed from the Bank's perspective with
regard to project design, achievements and constraints encountered during
implementation. However, the review overlooked some aspects of ARA
relationships at both the national and international levels that have
significantly contributed to the institutional shape-up of the newly
established organization. Linkages were found and strengthened between ARA
and (i) Agricultural Education Institution, (ii) Local and National Public and
Private Agencies, and (iii) Regional and International Research Centers.
Several ARA scientists subsequently assumed teaching responsibilities at the
Faculty of Agriculture (Sana'a University), meanwhile Faculty members and
school teaching staff were involved in joint on-station research activities.
Moreover, ARA Headquarter facilities, research stations and experimental farms
enabled the development of summer training programs for college and high
school agricultural students. At the local and national level, ARA served as
a consultant center for RDAs, MAWR and other ministries. Also, private firms
and investors have been offered field, laboratory and consultancy services, at
nominal charges. Finally, at the regional and international level, ARA
developed solid ties with numerous research and developmental centers. In
addition to points mentioned in para. 21, senior research staff were
encouraged to participate in scientific workshops and conferences abroad;
whereas, junior staff have been enrolled in short- and medium-term training
courses and study tours, both regionally and internationally. Information
exchange has been promoted between ARA and the above mentioned institutions,
as an indication of the energetic networking role developed by ARA.
Proiect Design and Organization
2.       After a decade of scattered research efforts, time allocated and
funds spent, the project came in the right time to plan and coordinate the
research needs of the country. The establishment of the Agricultural Research
Authority (ARA), capable of executing and coordinating agricultural research
relative to the needs of the country, became a reality through actual
involvement of the local research scientists. The generation of a local cadre
of research scientists was given top priority by ARA, based on phase II
research efforts. The project was designed to initiate efforts to overcome
major constraints on the country's research program, i.e. lack of qualified
local research scientists, lack of suitable research facilities and lack of
research coordination.



- 12 -
3.       The project design, though it addressed the weak linkages between
extension and research organization and the need for communicating research
findings to farmers, it failed, however, to identify proper mechanisms for
technology transfer. In addition, the proposed organizational structure for
the newly established ARA did not fit local regulations. It took a longer
time to form an institutional set-up that conformed with local requirements.
Moreover, the project's involvement in expanding extension network and its
dependence on funds from other projects introduced difficulties in the
timeliness of providing research facilities.
Proiect Activities
4.       The general misunderstanding of RDA's to the project's objectives, as
to serve them solve farmers' problems rather than as to cooperate with them to
solve farming problems, led to pressure on ARA which lacked the means and
funds to provide country-wide research coverage. The project aimed at
expanding and developing the research network in three of the five major agro-
ecological regions, with no provision for expanding in the remaining two
regions (Northern and Eastern). RDA's misinterpreting the project's
objectives, involved ARA in these two regions without sufficient staff and
operational funds, which resulted in cutting down programs in the originally
targeted regions and, hence, outreach activities were adversely affected.
Proiect Implementation
5.       The project was executed by the ARA with the major unavoidable
variances between planned and actual operations being the adjustment of ARA
organizational structure, expansion of research network and establishment of
the Authority. The organization of ARA was arranged to follow typical
institutional set-up recommended by the Ministry of Civil Services and to
accommodate for a better mechanism for outreach activities by establishing the
Department of Agricultural Economics and Technology Transfer. The expansion
of research network in the Northern and Eastern regions could not be avoided
due to pressures from MAWR in order to generate research data for extension
workers. The establishment of AREA was a result of merging ARA (North) and
DRE (South) into one institution aiming at undertaking research programs in
the two parts of the unified country, in addition to technically supporting
extension activities and assessing extension methodologies throughout the
unified Yemen.
6.       Project risks were partially identified.  Factors that were not
foreseen include: the restrictive conditions of some cofinanciers (the
Italian loan), and financing some components of the research project through
other RDA's loans. The first factor caused the delay in the implementation of
the staff housing, farm irrigation developments and ancillary buildings; all
of which have adversely affected both morale and the efficiency of the
researchers and their performance. Similarly, the second factor affected the
timeliness of procurement and sometimes a cut down in some supplies, i.e., ARA
suffered from the decreased number and the adequacy of vehicles procured
through TDA Tihama IV project. The risk of expanding the research network
could not be identified during project preparation.



- 13 -
Proiect Results
7.       Despite the development and introduction of a number of crop
varieties and the successful introduction of improved technological packages
for improving major crop yields, the research program remained only partially
accomplished. This was not due to the inadequate monitoring of research
programs, but rather it was due to the shortage in qualified Yemeni research
staff and in operational funds. Crop-oriented research was an approach that
was adopted by ARA to develop improved technological packages for major crops
yield improvements. Rainfed farming problems were relatively not well
addressed, a situation that remains to be investigated considering the large
extent of Yemen's rainfed agriculture. However, the vast investment in
irrigation agriculture and its substantial contribution to the economy, put
this farming system a step forward of rainfed farming.
Project Impact
8.       Improved packages of technology were generated and transferred to
farmers through extension workers, these packages contained recommendations on
newly-released agro-techniques. Also, ARA was able to accommodate for 56
research staff to pursue studies for the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in foreign
countries, 41 of whom have already completed their studies and returned to
replace expatriate staff. Researchers are actively participating in efforts
to alleviate major constraints to production of key agricultural commodities.
Planned research infrastructure and facilities were satisfactorily completed,
except for the Italian-funded staff housing quarters at Dhamar and Surdud.
ARA headquarters building constructions, Central Highlands (Dhamar) and Tihama
(Surdud) regional stations buildings were completed and furnished with
laboratory equipment, in addition to transport facilities, farm machinery and
equipment.
9.       For an institution that was established mainly to coordinate and
implement research programs and to prepare research results for dissemination
among farmers, ARA was not intended to duplicate RDA's outreach role.
Moreover, a system that accentuates unconsolidated institutionalization of
research and extension could not allow for strengthening linkages between the
two activities. It has been emphasized through the years that research staff
back-stop extension services, yet in practice, staff mobilization has not
received adequate funding. In contrast, RDA's were less responsive and less
cooperative when it came to extensionists visiting research stations. Few
RDA's have shown desire to finance researchers' outreach programs and to
support stronger ties between extension and research workers. The weak
domination of MAWR over its satellite agencies (ARA and RDA's) has even
worsened the situation.
Future Role of AREA
10.      In addition to ARA's research obligations, AREA is now responsible
for strengthening the outreach program. AREA is also intended to technically
supervise extension work of RDA's and to study existing extension
methodologies practice in various regions of the country. Extension research
aims to assess the effectiveness of the extension systems and to propose



- 14 -
appropriate systematic approaches for communicating technological packages to
farmers. This new role of AREA is expected to strengthen linkages between
research, extensionists and farmers. It would also coordinate efforts for
alleviating constraints of the agricultural sector to achieve development
targets.
IDA Performance
11.      Although IDA has performed well during almost all phases of the
project, and assisted in coordinating the involvement of bilateral agencies
(British, Netherlands and Italy) in project activities, some actions could be
considered of adverse impact on the project. The following decisions have
and/or will create difficulties for quite a long time: (i) selection of site
for ARA headquarter; (ii) linkages between extension and research, both
financed by IDA; (iii) frequent change of project supervisors; and (iv)
fragmented approach to research development, i.e. with funds included under
several IDA-supported RDA's projects.
12.      The selected site for ARA headquarters has caused problems some of
administration and social problems. After transferring to the new buildings
12 km north of Dhamar, ARA's administrative works and research programs were
considerably hampered. This difficulty was related to unfavorable living
conditions for most administration staff especially female staff. The Dhamar
area had not been able to provide substitution to such support staff for more
than a year in most posts. Despite the tempting salaries and other attractive
financial incentives, research staff as well, resisted movement to Dhamar for
quite a longer time, a situation that has been accentuated by the delay in
constructing living quarters. Moreover, several qualified researchers have
sought employment with Sana'a University, many others are trying/willing to
depart for reasons related to living conditions in the Dhamar area.
13.      During project preparation, a specialized firm was consulted to
formulate the research program. The consultant was unable to identify
appropriate mechanism for strengthening the linkages between research and
extension, both activities were/are financed by IDA. On the other hand,
throughout project implementation and monitoring, project supervisors have
been changed frequently. Being of different background, specialty and
experience, each supervisor reflected variable opinions as related to
evaluation and recommendation.
Borrower Performance
14.      The weakness of the borrower's system of monitoring and evaluation
has adversely affected the project implementation, particularly the incomplete
understanding of the project constraints resulting from inadequate
interference of other government agencies. For instance, negative
interferences, such as (i) research expansion, (ii) budget cut downs, and
(iii) procurement delays. The expansion of research activities to cover the
Eastern and Northern regions has negatively influenced research program in
both targeted and new regions; infrastructure completion was affected as well.
This situation was a consequence of unplanned expansion with little or no
additional resource to support the augmented obligations.



- 15 -
15.      Restrictive budget allocation, particularly those required for staff
recruitment and for operation expenses, have not allowed for timely staff
training and for research program continuity and regularity. Slow and
prolonged bureaucratic procedures for tender approval, tax exemptions and
custom clearances have delayed procurement of project requirements from
external markets.
IDA-Borrower Relationships
16.      The relationship between the Bank and the Government of Yemen
(Borrower) have been remarkable enough during project preparation and
implementation. However, some drawbacks on the coordination between the two
parties were observed, which relate to the project monitoring and evaluation
missions and following-up recommendations. The virtual absence of the
Ministry's concerned departments' representatives during the regular Bank
missions has disabled the Borrower to follow-up execution of recommended
actions, agreed upon with ARA which were repeatedly mentioned in the missions'
aide-memoires. Also, the work coordination between the parties in addressing
the problems arising from delays of cofinanciers commitments, has left the
borrower alone facing such difficulties. For instance, the Italian
contractors's failure to complete the living quarters at both Dhamar and
Surdud has taken considerable time and effort from the borrower's side. This
problem has not come to a satisfactory solution until the project closing
date.
Lessons Learned
17.      In addition to issues discussed in para. 27 and 28 of Part I
experience during project implementation had illustrated to both the Borrower
and the Bank the inefficiency of partial inclusion of ARA funds within credits
for area development projects, frequent change of Task Managers from the Bank
side, and improper coordination of both parties efforts in monitoring and
evaluating the project activities. Future appraisal missions should avoid
fragmenting institution development funds between several agencies just
because that agency exists in the region where the activity is intended to
take place. Management of fragmented funds should be channeled in a manner
suitable for specific conditions of both the loan receiving agency and the
other beneficiary agency.
18.      No doubt that long-term appointment of supervisors to ongoing project
would help to efficiently monitor and guide project implementation.
Designated project supervisors should remain for a period long enough in their
positions, especially those who participated in the early stages of a project.
On the other hand, project supervision is not the sole responsibility of the
Bank, but equally the Borrower's, too. Concerned ministries, especially the
Ministry of Planning and Development, should upgrade their project follow-up
capabilities, possibly through assigning proficient staff to the monitoring
and evaluation units. These units should be provided by the proper means and
authority to materialize recommended actions for project rectification.






PART III: SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
TABLE 1: Related Bank Loans and/or IDA Credits
FinanciZ      T Loan/Credit No.         Description/Title                                                                          Approfv            Period         Status ICentJ
Bank
Finncting
376-YAR                Research component of IDA's first agricultural credit.                                      1974              1973-1979    Completed
Tihama I.
1067-YAR               Rural Development Projects I and II, Credits 545-YAR and 1067-YAR.                          1975              1975-1982    Completed
1980              1980-1987
1067-YAR               IDA loan - 1067 SURDP for Civil Works.                                                      1980              1980-1987    Completed    See Note 2
880-YAR                Research Component in IDA Credit, Tihama III Project.                                       1979              1979-1988    Completed    See Note 2
Other
Financing
UNDP            YEM/73/010              UNDP supported, FAO executed, Central Research and Training Organization                    1973              1973-1978    Completed    Phase I of
at Taiz - Southern Uplands region.                                                                                                         UNDP
____ ____ _  __ ____ ___ project,
UNDP            YEH/78/009              UNDP initiated, IDA executed, FAO sub-contracted, Southern Uplands                          1978              1979-1982    Completed    Phase II of
54 5-YAR                                                                                                                                                           UNDP
545-YAR                                                                                                                                                            Projectr .
Non-IDA         Ln. 105 YA              Co-financier,  IFAD contribution to ARD Project.                                           December           1984-1990    Completed
Financing                                                                                                                           1982
Ln.                    Italian Department of Development Cooperation (DCD) contribution to ARD                     February          1983-          On-going
project for infrastructure developmnent - supplement building construction    1983                            4 years
and farm implement procurement.
Grant                  Grant from Italian DCD towards providing Technical Assistance.                              February          1983-          On-going
GCP/YEM/016/ITA                                                                                                    1983              3 years
YAR Government contribution to ARD project.                                                August 1982        1983-          On-going
UTFN/YEM/011/YEM    IDA and IFAD contracted to FAO.  Agreement between FAO and MAF.                                April 1983        1983-          On-going       See Note 1
Cofinancing   Ln. 13                    IFAD loan for Civil Works and for purchase of Vehicles.                                                                      Completed    See Note 2
Non-IDA         RLIP                    Dutch, Bilateral Technical Assistance for Livestock.                                                                         Completed    Supplemental
Financing    I_I___I_Project
ODA                    British, Bilateral Technical Assistance for Forestry.                                                                        Completed    Supplemental
I  I                                                                     I                  I    I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Projact
Note 1:            Assisted by the FAO project, Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) was formed under YAR Law No. 32 dated
December 1983 as a semi-autonomous organization within the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF).                                                                                 S
Note 2:             Included to lower total project cost.
(D



- 18 -                                  Table 2
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                              ] Date Planned  Date Revised J Actual Date
Identification                                                     May 1980
(Executive Project Summary)                                        Jan/Feb 1981
Preparation                         Aug 1981                       Aug 1981
Appraisal Mission1                                                 Oct/Nov 1981
Loan/Credit Negotiation            _                               Apr 1982
Board Approval                      Jun 1982                       Jun 1982
Loan/Credit Signature                                              Aug 1982
Loan/Credit Effectiveness           Nov 1982       2               Nov 1983
Loan/Credit Closing                Jun 1988        Dec 19913       Dec 1991
Loan/Credit Completion                                             Apr 1992
Note 1:      Appraisal Mission Members:  Messrs. S.R. Freiberg, M. Ballesteros,
and R. Etheredge (Consultant)
Comment 2:  Postponed from Nov 1982 to Mar 1983 to Jun 1983 to Nov 1983.
Comment 3:  Postponed from Jun 1988 to Jun 1989 to Jun 1990 to Jun 1991 to Dec
31, 1991.



- 19 -
Table 3:  Credit Disbursements                                                        Table 3
Page lof 2
Run Time: 10/08/92 at 13.52.04
VP - MIDDLE EAST & NO AFRICA REGN OFFICE
EHENA - COUNTRY DEPARTMENT 11
28620 - AGRICULTURE OPERATIONS DIVISION
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PFPMR4 - Disbursement Informtion
(U.S. S MILLIONS)
(LOA Data as of 8/30/92 - MIS Data as of 10/08/92)
Project: 5YEMPA027 - AGRIC.RESEARCH & DEV              Effective Date:  11/30/83
Approved Amount:       6.00                       CanceLlations:        .02
Formally
Fiscal     Actual Ant.  Profile Amt.  Revised Amt. Original Amt.  Revised Amt.
Year      Cumulative    Cumulative    Cumiutative       Cumulative    Cumulative
1982
Jun, 1982
1983
Sep, 1982
Dec, 1982                          .07
Mar, 1983                          .15                            .50            .50
Jun, 1983                          .37                            .70            .50
1984
Sep, 1983                          .60                           1.00            .50
Dec, 1983           .38            .72                           1.20            .50
Mar, 1984           .89            .84                           1.40            .80
Jun, 1984           .95            .96                           1.70            .90
1985
Sep, 1984          2.21           1.08                           1.90           2.20
Dec, 1984          2.44           1.20                           2.30           2.40
Mar, 1985          2.46           1.31                           2.60           2.60
Jun, 1985          3.07           1.67                           3.00          3.00
1986
Sep, 1985          3.11           2.03                           3.40           3.40
Dec, 1985          3.17           2.27                           3.80          3.50
Mar, 1986          3.47           2.51                           4.30          3.60
Jun, 1986          3.81           2 2.87                         4.80          3.70
1987
Sep, 1986          3.82           3.23                           5.30          3.70
Dec, 1986          3.90           3.47                           5.50          3.80
Mar, 1987          3.91           3.71                           5.60          3.80
Jun, 1987          3.93           3.83                           5.80          3.80
1988
Sep, 1987          3.94           3.94                           5.90          3.94
Dec, 1987          3.99           4.18                           6.00           3.99
Mar, 1988          4.02           4.42                           6.00           4.06
Jun, 1988         4.10            4.54                           6.00          4.10
1989
Sep, 1988          4.22           4.66                                         4.26
Dec, 1988          4.33           4.90                                          4.30
Mar, 1989          4.40           5.14                                          4.34
Jun, 1989         4.50            5.26                                         4.50
1990
Sep, 1989          4.77           5.38                                         4.70
Dec, 1989          4.79           5.62                                          4.80
Mar, 1990          4.80           5.86                                          4.80
Jun, 1990         4.81            5.86                                         4.80



- 20 -                                                     Table 3
Run Time: 10/08/92 at 13.52.04                                  Page  2 of  2
VP - MIDDLE EAST & NO AFRICA REGN OFFICE
EMENA - COUNTRY DEPARTMENT 11
28620 - AGRICULTLtRE OPERATIONS DIVISION
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PFPMR4 - Disbursement Information
(U.S. S MILLIONS)
(LOA Data as of 8/30/92 - MIS Data as of 10/08/92)
Project: SYEMPA027 - AGRIC.RESEARCH & DEV               Effective Date:  11/30/83
Approved Amunt:        6.00                        Cancellations:         .02
Formally
Fiscat     Actual Amt.  Profile Amt.  Revised Amt.  Original Amt.  Revised Amt.
Year      CumuLative    Cumulative    CuTulative         Cumulative    CLauLative
1991
Sep, 1990          4.92           5.86                                           4.92
Dec, 1990          5.04           5.86                                           5.00
Mar, 1991          5.18           5.86                                            5.30
Jun, 1991          5.44           5.92                                           5.44
1992
Sep, 1991          5.47           5.98                                           5.70
Dec, 1991          5.51                                                           5.85
Mar, 1992          6.02                                                           6.00
Jun, 1992          6.07
1993
Sep, 1992          6.07
Dec, 1992
Mar, 1993



-  21  -                                             Table  4
Page 1 of 3
TABLE 4: Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                             Appraisal Estimate                    |_Comments
1.  Formation of ARA to unify          1983                                    Established in Dec 1983.
research efforts at the
national level.
2.  Research stations building                                                 Completed and furnished.
complex at Dhamar and
Surdud.
3.  Housing complexes at Dhamar                                                Problems with Italian
and Surdud.                                                               contractors.
4.  Post graduate training             32                                      56 completed
9 Ph.D and 23 M.Sc.                                                       21 Ph.D and 42 M.Sc.
5.  Short-term training.                                                       66 completed.
6.  Development of national                                                    In 1983, 40 Scientists, 31
manpower at scientific                                                     Technicians, and 23 other
level.                                                                    categories; in 1990, 91, 42, 233
respectively.
7.  FAO experts.                       50 manyears of international            17 long-term experts, 2
staff and 20 manyears of short-        associated experts, and 3 short
term staff.                            term consultants.
8.  Salaries of Scientists and                                                 Brought in line with
Researchers.                                                              Universities.
9.  (i)  Block Centers (2)                                                     Completed.
(ii) Extension Centers (9).                                               Completed.
10. Vehicles and Equipment:
Procurement vehicles and
farm equipment                                                            100 X complete.
Procurement laboratory and
research equipment                                                        95 X complete.
Establishment library and
documentation.                                                            100 % complete.
11. Institutional:                                                             Established 1983, fully
a)  Establish Agric.                                                      operational; reorganized into
Research and Dev.                                                     more comprehensive Agricultural
Authority                                                             Research and Extension
Authority, following national
unification (5/90)/
b)  Establish National                                                     Established 1986, now being
Agric. Research Council                                               enlarged into National Research
(NARC)                                                                and Extension Council, with
responsibility for reviewing
research program, AREA budget,
and research results.
c)  Establish Research                                                    Established 1987 and now being
Coordination Committee                                                amalgamated with Technical
Research Committee from Southern
Yemen.



-  22  -                                       Table  4
Page 2 of 3
B. Agricultural Benefits
Variety        Increase       Yield          Specific Crop(s)
yavr Local.   (t/ha)                                                                                 l
Varieties   l                                                                                        l
Cereal
Released       63X to 240%   3.5 to 5.7   Sorghum, Maize, Wheat, Barley
Promising      40% to 333%   1.3 to 6.6   Sorghum, Maize, Millet, Wheat Barley
Legumes
Promising      11% to 175%   0.5  to 2.9   Faba Bean, Large and Small grains, Common Bean, Lentil,
Soyabean
Vegetables
Released                                     Potato, Tomato, Onion, Watermelon, Sweet Melon, Okra, Egg
Plant, Radish, Spinach Garlic, Carrot, Bean, Peas, Cucumber,
Squash, Cabbage, Cauliflower, Sweet Pepper, Hot Pepper
Promising                                    Potato, Tomato, Onion, Sweet Melon, Okra, Radish, Spinash
Garlic, Carrot, Bean, Peas, Cucumber, Squash, Cabbage,
Cauliflower, Sweet Pepper, Hot Pepper
Fruits
Temperate                                    Apple, Peaches, Apricots, Peas, Cherries, Prunes, Sapota,
Passion fruit
Tropical                                     Banana, Mango, Citrus, Papaya, Guava



TABLE 4: Project Implementation
Indicators                                                                            Appraisal  Actual   Comments
Institutional
(1)  Establish Agricultural Research end Developnent Authority                        1983              1983          Established and fully operational.
(2)  Establish National Agricultural Research Council                                                   1986          Established and holds annual
review/planning workshop in January.
(3)  Establish Research Coordination Committee                                                          1987          Established and meets every three months.
Infrastructure
A.   Civil Works Construction
(1)  Research Headquarters and Center Dhamar                                                                          Structure completed March 1988.
(2)  Research Center Surdud (Tihama)                                                                                  Completed. 1990
(3)  Housing for ARA personnel at Dhamar/Surdud through Italian financing                                             501 complete with 43 units.1
(4)  Block Centers (2)                                                                                                Completed.
(5)  Extension Centers (9)                                                                                            Completed.
B.   Vehicles and Equipment
(1)  Procure vehicles and farm equipment                                                                              Procured, 100l   complete.
(2)  Procure laboratory and research equipment                                                                        901 complete.
(3)  Establish Library and Documentation Center                                                                       Established, 100l   complete.
Technical
A.   Consultants/Experts
(1)  International ataff                                                              50 manyears                     17 Long-term and 2 Associate Experts
(2)  Short term staff                                                                 20 manyears                     13 Short-term consultants
B.   Graduate Studies
(1)  Ph.D level                                                                       9                               16 completed.
(2)  M.Sc level                                                                       23                              39 completed.
C.   Short term Training                                                                                              66 completed.
Note 1:           Delay caused by legal and recontracting difficulties following bankruptcy of Italian contractor.
(p X
(D
0
X~



Table  5
_ 9/, _
Page  1 of  2
TABLE 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Itemr                            Appraisal       Estimate   Total    Local   Actual        Total
Local Costs    Foreign              Costs   Foreign
Exchan e                     Exchange
I           ~~~~Costs1]                    Costs
(USSN)             IUSS M
A. Infrastructure Development Costs
(i)  CiviL Works Research                   0.95           6.21         7.16    0.86    4.77         5.63
(ii)  Civil Works Extension                  0.40            0.40        0.80    0.15    0.28          0.43
(iii)  Vehicle and Farm Equipment             0.15            1.14        1.29    0.23    1.70          1.93
(iv)  General Furniture & Equipment          0.36           0.26         0.62    0.11    0.17         0.28
(v)  Laboratory Furniture & Equipment       0.00           0.42         0.42    0.00    0.29         0.29
(vi)  Library & Documentation Service        0.00            0.25        0.25    0.09    0.36         0.45
(vii)  Research Farm Development              0.11            0.01        0.12    0.23    0.43          0.66
Subtotal                          1.97            8.67       10.66     1.67    8.00         9.67
B.  TechnicaL Assistance Costs
(i)  International Staff
- Long Term                           0.50            4.00        4.50    0.62    3.79          4.41
- Short Term                          0.04            0.22        0.26    0.01    0.10          0.11
(ii)  Fellowships
- Long Term                            0.00           1.22         1.22    0.00    1.04         1.04
- Short Term                          0.00            0.11        0.11     0.00    0.32         0.32
(iii)  Other Technical Assistance             0.64            0.64        1.28    0.20    0.35         0.55
Subtotal                          1.18            6.19        7.37    0.83    5.60          6.43
C. Incremental Operating Costs
(i)  Salaries and Wages                     4.22           0.00         4.22    5.17    0.00         5.17
(ii)  Other Operating Costs                  1.74           0.00         1.74    2.32    0.00         2.32
Subtotal                          5.96            0.00        5.96    7.49    0.00          7.49
Project Base Cost                             9.11           14.88       23.99    9.99   13.60        23.59
Physical Contingencies                        0.27            1.20        1.47    0.71    0.90          1.61
Price Contingencies                           2.97           4.02         6.99     1.80    2.50        4.30
Subtotal                          3.24            5.22        8.46    2.51    3.40          5.91
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           12.35          20.10        32.45    12.50   17.00       29.50
1/      An IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of USS250,000 was provided to YAR for preparation of
project report in January 1981.



-  25  -                                             Table  5
Page 2 of 2
B. Project Financing
Source                          1 Appraisat Foreign     Total   Local   Actual Foreign o      Total
(1)  IDA Credit                 0.3              6.0             6.3      0.3           5.8           6.1
(2)  IFAD                       0.3              5.5             5.8      0.4          5.7            6.1
(3)  YAR Goverrnent            11.7              O.O            11.7    11.7           O.O           11.7
(4)  Goverrment of Italy        0.0              8.5             8.6      0.1           5.5           5.6
TOTAL                12.4            20.0            32.4   12.5            17.0          29.5



-  26  -                                          Table  6
TABLE 6: Status of Covenants
Covenant                                                Deadline for              Status
l __________________________________               _    | Compliance
(1)  Sec 1.02 (a)                                      1983                       Established on schedule;
Establishment of Agricultural Research and                                   presently functioning.
Developmnent Authority
(2)  Sec 4.03                                                                     Complied Satisfactorily.
Recruitment of Consultants and Experts on
terms satisfactory to IDA
(3)  Sec 4.05 (b)                                      I half, End of Sept        Generally complied with minor
Semi Annual Progress Report                       II half, End next          delays.
March
(4)  Sec 4.05 (d)                                      Dec 1985                   Joint mid-term evaluation
Interim report on the progress of the                                        mission:  Sep - Oct 1986.
project                                                                       Report submitted Dec 1986.
(5)  Sec 5.01 (b)                                                                 Report submissions
Annual Audited Reports                                                       satisfactory.



-7Tablc 7
Page 1 of 2
Table 7: Use of Bank Resources
PAGE    1                                         A.   Staff Inputs (Staffweeks)
Staffweeks for Product : 5YENPA027
Manager : 28620
Name : AGRIC.RESEARCH & DEV
FY : 82L
To FY83  In FY84  In FY85  In FY86  In FY87  In FY88  In FY89  In FY90  In FY91  In FY92  In FY93    Total
Task       swks       swks      swks      swks       swks      swks       swks      swks      swks       swks      swks       swks
LENA        31.0                                                                                                                31.0
LENN         3.3                                                                                                                 3.3
LENP        12.6        5.8                                                                                                     18.3
LOP          9.1        1.7                                                                                                     10.7
Subtotal
56.0       7.4                                                                                                     63.4
PAD            .8                   .6                                                                                           1.4
PCR                                                                                              1.4       7.3                   8.7
SPN         10.1        5.0      10.6        8.2      10.1       11.1       9.5       7.1       11.8      12.1                  95.7
Subtotal
10.9       5.0      11.1        8.2      10.1       11.1       9.5       7.1       13.2      19.4                 105.8



- 28 -
Table 7
TABLE 7:  Use of Bank Resources                                                    Page 2 of 2
B. Mission Data
Stage of    Month/Year  Number   Weeks                                   Specialization  Performance   Types of
Project                                  of              in              Represented 1   Rating                            Problems 3
Cycle                                    Persons  Field                                             Status 2
Through             Oct 1981             3               3
Appraisal
Appraisal           Feb 1982
through Board
Approval
(Aug 1982)                              _  _
Board Approval    Nov-Doc 1982           1               2               AS                         2                       0
through
Effectiveness
(Nov 1983)
Aug-Sep 1983        2               2               Ag, Liv Spl                 1                      0
Supervision         Feb 1984             1               1               AS                          2                      0
(On-going)
Nov 1984             1              2               Ag                          2                      P, T
Mar 1985             1              1 1/2           Ag                          2                      C, P, T
Sep 1985            2               1 1/2           Ag, Agec                    2                      C, P
Review              Mar 1986              1              1               Ag.                         2                      0, P
Supervision         Oct 1986             1               3               Ag                               ___
Jan 1987             1                              Ag                          2                      0
Aug-Sep 1987         3              2               Ag, Agec                                           C, 0
Review              Nov 1987             2               1 1/2           Ag                         2
Follow up           Mar-Apr 1988         1               3 1/2           Ag                         2
Supervision         Oct 1988             2                               Agec, C (Ag)               2                      0, P, C
Jun 1989            1               1               Ag                          2                      P, C
Oct 1989            3               2               Agec, Ag, Liv Spl           2                      P
Feb-Mar 1990         1                              Agec                        2                      P
May-Jun 1990         1              3               Ag
Nov 1990             1                              Agec
Jul 1991             1              3               Ag                          2                      P, M
Nov 1991             1              3               Ag                          2                      P, M
Note 1:             Ag - Agriculturists, Agec - Agricultural Economist, C - Consultant, Liv sp -
Livestock Specialist.
Note 2:             Minor problems - 1, Moderate problems - 2, Major problems - 3.
Note 3:             P - Procurement, C - Construction, 0 - Operational, T - Technical.
M: \YAR\CaART.SUMMARY



_________        I_________________________ __                                     8RD                                          1618 1R I
,,, ,.ssw ' g| YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SL.^A1U' *  AUDI ARABIA                     AGRICULTURAL  RESEARCH
AND
,  o   >                                         ~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH  CENTERS
L                                    r  -                          DEVELOPMETPROJEC
C-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~H
A I               mob"                               A Gdo
Al Z.boh   i  A M0.0      /         .- V  dd
ANAA~~~~~~~~~N
_             At Al4ho          r-A
tJ\Ad D-0-                                       H.;  ds >/
e  9 j /~~SAbo,ol                                           - ' 
B. Sor1                                      Khal  ... Korb. Afi           t / 
ZAbld   T-I loTbor R,b. _                 \a,\
-14'                                 ;                Al  WLld _ f sriborl 
Ad            <    Upj3nd     J ~ ~ od /.
, tF \..  a            p       ~~~~~PIOPF F -  FVSi  rAT C REP JBI- f {-,jF xMr 
ETHIr )PiA                                                      
l ~ ~~~~~~~~ /o~                                           .;   ,,,,l  .        A
/DJIBOUTI
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4'



