Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P--324-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 17, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981                     December 1981
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni rial (YRI)           YRl
$1  =  YRls 4.50 1/               4.50
YRI I =  $0.22                      0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDA        Agricultural Research and Development Autbority
ARS         Agricultural Research Service
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
IDA         International Development Association
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAF         Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NARC        National Agricultural Research Council
PIU         Physical Implementation Unit
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
RCC         Research Coordination Committee
RRC         Regional Research Center
SURDP       Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
TDA         Tihama Development Authority
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All
exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has
been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:                 Special Drawing Rights:  5.4 million
(approximately US$6 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms
Project Description:   The proposed project is designed to assist the YAR
Government in strengthening the national agricultural
research program in the three regions with the high-
est agricultural potential--the Central Highlands,
the Southern Uplands, and the Tropical Lowlands. It
would develop, through applied agricultural research,
technological packages which can be disseminated to
Yemeni farmers through existing and expanded
extension centers. The project provides for the
following components:
(a) research infrastructure development, including
(i) civil works (construction of laboratory and
office buildings, staff housing and ancillary build-
ings); (ii) equipment and materials, (scientific
instruments, laboratory equipment, vehicles, farm
equipment and laboratory and office furniture); and
(iii) library and documentation services (journals
and microfilm equipment);
(b) the construction and furnishing of two extension
supervision centers and nine extension centers in the
Central Highlands; and
(c) technical assistance comprising (i) provision of
consultants' services to assist in carrying out
research programs and administration, including
on-the-job training, preparation of engineering
designs, and supervision of construction; and (ii)
training abroad in postgraduate studies.
The proposed project would mainly benefit Yemeni
farmers by providing, through the extension services
in each geographical area, technology packages for
increasing yields of existing crops, raising cropping
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
intensities and introducing new products. The
project will also establish a national agricultural
research organization (Agricultural Research and
Development Authority (ARDA)) with authority to
conduct and coordinate research programs in YAR.
Project risks relate to (i) possible Government delay
in legislative action for granting ARDA quasi auto-
nomous status for setting staff salaries and deter-
mining the scope of its operations; (ii) inability of
ARDA to attract a sufficient number of Yemeni scien-
tists to undertake applied agricultural research; and
(iii) the adequacy of linkages between the research
and extension functions. These risks are minimized
by the Government commitment to this project. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to establish ARDA
by January 1, 1983. Shortage of Yemeni scientists is
expected to persist in the medium-term in light of
extreme scarcity of university graduates in YAR. In
the interim the Government will recruit international
staff for the job. Finally, measures for improving
research programming, coordination, monitoring and
evaluation, expansion of extension services in the
Central Highlands, and close association among the
Government's various agricultural and rural
development programs should help to strengthen the
linkages between research and extension.
Estimated Cost:                             Local        Foreign        Total
(Project costs are exempted                 -----------  million-----------
from custom duties and taxes)
A. Infrastructure Development Costs
Civil Works, Research                 1.0           6.2           7.2
Civil Works, Extension               0.4            0.4           0.8
Vehicles and Equipment                0.2           1.1           1.3
Office and Laboratory Equipment    0.4              0.9           1.3
Research Farm Development            0.1             -            0.1
Subtotal                          2.1           8.6          10.7                 A
B. Technical Assistance Costs 1/
Consultants                          0.6            4.2           4.8
Fellowships                            -            1.3           1.3
Contract Research and Other
Technical Assistance Costs          0.6            0.7           1.3
Subtotal                          1.2           6.2           7.4
1/ Including two project preparation advances.



- iii -
Estimated Cost;                              Local        Foreign        Total
(Project costs are exempted                    -----     $ million-----------
from custom duties and taxes)
C. Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries and Wages                    4.2            -            4.2
Other Operating Costs                 1.7            -             1.7
Subtotal                           5.9            -            5.9
Project Base Cost                          9.2           14.8          24.0
Physical contingencies                     0.3            1.2           1.5
Price contingencies                        2.9            4.0           6.9
Subtotal                           3.2           5.2           8.4
Total Project Cost                        12.4           20.0          32.4
Financing Plan:                              Local        Foreign        Total
-----------$ million-----------
Government                                11.7             -           11.7
IDA Credit                                 0.3            5.7           6.0
Government of Italy                        0.1            8.8           8.9
IFAD                                       0.3            5.5           5.8
Total                                   12.4          20.0           32.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements:  IDA FY   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
…_________________  mill ion-----------
Annual                                   0.7    1.0    1.3    1.8    1.0    0.2
Cumulative                               0.7    1.7    3.0    4.8    5.8    6.0
Estimated Completion Date: December 31, 1987
Rate of Return:               Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 3767a-YAR, dated May 7, 1982.



4 ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~      ~~~~                ~~~                ~~~                ~~~                ~~~                ~~~               ~~~                ~~~              ~~~               ~~~               ~~~              ~~~              ~~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDR) 5.40 million (approximately US$6.0 million equivalent), on
standard IDA terms, to help finance an Agricultural Research and Development
project. The Government of the Republic of Italy and the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would provide loans in the amounts of
US$8.9 million equivalent and SDRs 5.25 million ($5.8 million equivalent),
respectively.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978; a
Country Economic Memorandum (No. 2856-YAR), dated October 23, 1980; a report
on manpower development (No. 3181a-YAR), dated March 27, 1981; and a report
on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554a-YAR), dated January 6, 1982,
have been distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data are attached
in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government whicb came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state.
4.        Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private
sectors.  A Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) was followed by
the country's First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81). In their wake, the foun-
dations for the country's physical and social infrastructure were laid and
expanded, and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay
of the economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization was also
started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.        Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
1/ Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion credit which was approved
by the Executive Directors on March 16, 1982.



increased, on a net basis, from around $40 million in 1969/70 to a level that
has fluctuated around $l billion on an annual basis between 1978 and 1980,
but which seems to have dropped below this level in 1981 (on the basis of
tentative estimates by the Central Bank). Largely as a result of these cash
inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly over this
period, reaching an estimated $420 in 1978/79.
Major Development Issues
6.        Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Agricultural land and water are
scarce and few mineral deposits have been discovered so far.
7.        The shortage of skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
YAR's development. This shortage is due to the fact that the labor force is
drawn from a population pool which is characterized by very low levels of
education or training. Although the most critical shortages are in the
skilled and professional occupations, even the unskilled work force was under
strain during the height of the labor migration to neighboring countries.
However, it appears that previous shortages of unskilled workers have recent-
ly eased somewhat as the pace of migration has levelled off. The shortage of
manpower limits the capacity of the public administration to manage and
implement a growing and increasingly complex development program.
8.        A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for the
financing of fast-growing government expenditures. Although government
revenue rose rapidly during the 1970s, the tax base is still very small.
Most budget revenue is derived from import duties, while other sources of
taxation are still largely undeveloped. So far, budget deficits have been
covered through generous foreign aid. But this assistance is bound to
diminish in relative terms over the longer run, a development which calls for
measures to broaden the tax base, strengthen the tax administration, and
devise new schemes to tap the savings of the private sector. A Bank mission,
with IMF participation, addressed these and related issues, and its draft
report was discussed with the Government in November 1981. The Government
has already implemented some of the mission's recommendations.
Government Objectives
9.        The country's development objectives are enunciated in the First
Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81). It has endeavored to develop human re-
sources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and social
infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors,
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs. Preliminary progress reports on the first four years of the
Plan indicate that, in aggregate terms, objectives have by and large been met



- 3-
except in the agriculture sector where output has stagnated and actual growth
fell considerably below targeted levels primarily because cf the abandonment
of marginal rain-fed areas where income opportunities could no; comapete with
the opportunities of migration.
10.       During the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-1986),
the Government had initially asked the Bank for assistance in reviewing major
development issues, and in evaluating priorities in sectors in which IDA is
involved so as to channel resources into the most desirable areas. This work
bas been completed. In addition, at the request of the Government, the Bank
agreed to act as executing agency for a UNDP-financed project that assists in
overseeing the inputs which have been used by the Central Planning Organiza-
tion in the preparation of the plan. The SFYP was reviewed at the Second
International Development Conference which was held in Sanaa ir late April
1982.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
11.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in
YAR has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to
have grown at an average rate of 8 percent a year between 1972/73 and
1978/79. 1/ Economic growth was strongest in the modern sectors, reflec-
ting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of government ser-
vices, and of transportation and finance. There was also a rapid increase of
modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising vegetables,
fruits and poultry. Subsistence agriculture, still the most important eco-
nomic sector in YAR, was relatively stagnant and in some cases contracted,
12.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new mar-
kets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private invest-
ment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry.  This coin-
cided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures. Ini-
tially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated form
through its Three-Year Program and the First Five-Year Plan, the Government
increased its capital expenditures from close to YRls 60 million ($13 mil-
lion) in 1972/73 to around YRls 2.5 billion ($555 million) in 1979/80.
Domestic and External Finance
13.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a substantial increase in overall savings. In 1978/79,
gross national savings are estimated to have exceeded $500 million, which
1/ The Government, with United Nations/Economic Commission for Western Asia
(UN/ECWA) assistance, has recently revised the country's entire national
accounts series. These new data are being reviewed at the Bank.



- 4 -
would be equivalent to about 14 percent of GNP. Most of YAR's national sav-
ings are generated by the private sector. It can be assumed that a large
part of these savings originated from remittances of workers, most of whom
are from rural areas. Savings are thus benefitting most regions of the coun-
try and different population groups.
14.       Public sector savings, on the other hand, were negative until
1975/76, reflecting the very narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that
year). However, in the following three years tax revenue more than
trebled--due largely to a surge in imports and accordingly increases in
import duties. As a result, the current budget yielded surpluses, which in
1977/78 reached YRls 735 million ($163 million). Provisional estimates for
1978/79 have this surplus shrinking to around YRIs 315 million ($70 million)
as a result of the continued large expansion of expenditures. The recent
Bank mission to review domestic resource mobilization, as well as a subse-
quent IMF Article IV Consultation mission, expressed concern that the overall
budgetary position deteriorated rapidly as of 1978/79 and the overall deficit
has been on the order of YRIs 2 billion-2.5 billion ($445 million-0555 mil-
lion) per annum.
15.       YAR's external financial position has also changed dramatically in
recent years. While at the beginning of the past decade foreign exchange was
in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced the Government to request the
rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding commitments, the country sub-
sequently experienced a phase of comfortable balance of payments surpluses
and growing exchange reserves. The principal reason for this cbange must be
seen in the large and growing amounts of workers' remittances and private
transfers, as well as in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi
Arabia and other Arab oil-exporting nations. However, the last two years or
so have witnessed a stabilization in the levels of remittances and transfers,
and since imports continued their rapid growth, the balance of payments has
also deteriorated sharply. As a result, there has been a significant run on
the country's foreign reserve holdings.
16.       YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy. Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million in
1973/74 to $1405 million in 1978/79. This upsurge in import demand reflects
the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemeni rial,
and the absence of import restrictions.
Capital Flows and External Debt
17.       Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,
including grants, came to more than $1.5 billion by the end of 1980. The
principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the USSR, the Gulf States, IDA, China,
Germany and the USA.



- 5 -
18.       About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, for
budget support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program
and by a number of bilateral donors. A significant part of official grants
has been made available in the form of technical assistance. Given the ex-
treme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority
and will be needed by the country for many years to come.  Besides the grants,
YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans and credits. Drawings on
these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $417 million in 1980.
Most of the official loans and credits have been committed for the financing
of specific projects, with the main emphasis on roads, agriculture, including
irrigation, and utilities. The remaining funds were given for commodity
assistance or as cash loans.
19.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities
range from 5-50 years, with a median of 20-30 years.
20.       YAR's external public debt outstanding on December 31, 1980 was
estimated at $1603 million, of which $727 million was disbursed. The major
creditors were Saudi Arabia, the USSR, IDA, the Arab Fund, China, Germany and
the Kuwait Fund. IDA credits accounted for $201 million or about 13 percent
of the total debt reported. Because of their very favorable terms of borrow-
ing, the debt service payments amounted to $18 million for 1980, equivalent
to around 1 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances). Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few
years, the burden of such payments would continue to remain small in relation
to YAR's exchange earnings.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
21.       The proposed credit would be the thirtieth to YAR, bringing total
IDA commitments to $277.3 million. 1/ The World Bank strategy in YAR has
been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions, skills
and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development, to
develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agriculture,
and to support the Government in its programs to meet basic needs in rural
and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA has extended nine credits,
totaling $106.4 million, for agriculture, fisheries and rural infrastructure;
eleven credits totaling $107.6 million, for infrastructure including high-
ways, ports, water supply and sewerage, power distribution, and urban devel-
opment; four credits, totaling $41 million, for education and training; two
1/ Includes the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First Tihama
project, No. 376-1 YAR, and excludes the $7.0 million credit for the
Textile Rehabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was cancelled
at the Government's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



- 6 -
credits, totaling $14.3 million, for industry; and a $2.0 million credit to
promote the exploration of the petroleum and geothermal resources to private
companies. In FY1978, an investment of $2.4 million by the International
Finance Corporation was approved to help finance a dairy and juice project.
22.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled and professional, and the newness and weakness of its
institutions. World Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to
strengthen Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increased
training of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as
through direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain
substantial components for technical assistance towards institution build-
ing. Three particularly important examples of the World Bank's support for
institution building have been in the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF). In CPO, the World Bank
(through three grants totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund have financed a
team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a planning machinery.
Currently, the Bank is the executing agency for a UNDP-financed project that
assists the CPO in the preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan, 1982-86 (see
paragraph 10). In MAF, the Bank supplies the services of seven advisors
initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing agency, and now fi-
nanced jointly by IDA, the EEC Special Action Fund (under the Second Tihama
project) and UNDP. The Agricultural Research Service at Taiz, which has the
responsibility for carrying out applied agricultural research for the country
as a whole, is also financed as part of this institutional support.
23.       YAR's disbursement performance (disbursements as a percentage of
total commitments) lagged somewhat lately largely due to the delay in the
recruitment of staff for project implementation and the shortage of
counterpart funds arising from budgetary constraints. Following a number of
implementation reviews of the whole portfolio, there are indications that
performance will start to improve soon. Nonetheless, YAR's performance now
compares favorably with the regional average and with most other countries at
a similar level of development. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA
credits, Bank grants, and IFC investments, as well as notes on the execution
of the ongoing projects, as of March 31, 1982.
24.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural development
and education and training, and will seek to spread the benefits of develop-
ment more widely throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's
ability to implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and
tecbnical assistance needed for successful implementation. A first health
project, a fourth highways project and an agricultural credit project have
been appraised; a fifth education project, a third power project and a fifth
highway project are in the preparation stage. Future projects are expected
to include water supply and sewerage, urban and housing, agriculture and
rural development activities.



- 7 -
25.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its develop-
ment expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-
developed countries and requires special assistance through financing of a
large part of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As
in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially
higher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we sball continue to co-
operate closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in
stimulating cofinancing. IDA-supported projects, including this project,
bave led to about $310 million equivalent of cofinancing from other aid
donors.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
26.       Until the late 1960s, the agricultural sector of YAR was largely
oriented toward the subsistence needs of a stationary economy and contributed
little to improving the quality of rural life. The meagre endowment in land,
scant rainfall, isolation from opportunities for technological progress and
the lack of alternative economic opportunities, combined to create an envi-
ronment of pervasive rural underemployment and poverty. As a result, agri-
culture generated little surplus on which growth and development could be
based.  Traditional agriculture, however, was built upon a time-proven
mastery of scarce natural resources by means of terracing and ingenious
systems of water diversion, fixed land rights, and a self-contained social
organization solidly founded on village and tribal ties between the people
and the land. It is estimated that, during the sixties, agriculture employed
about 80-90 percent of the economically active population and contributed as
much as 90 percent of GDP.
Agricultural Sector Performance, Constraints and Policy
27.       Then, less than a decade ago, the sector was subjected to a rela-
tively sudden change in its economic environment. Higher wages in neighbor-
ing oil-exporting countries lured many male agricultural workers away from
the fields. Almost concurrently, the substantial savings by these migrant
workers remitted to their families back home raised domestic disposable
income significantly and this, in turn, translated into an upsurge in the
local demand for foodstuffs, including fruits, vegetables and other cash
crops, some of which were new to the Yemeni diet. The responses to these
changes were logical. Marginal, rain-fed land cultivated with cereals such
as sorghum and millet was abandoned, and the smaller number of agricultural
workers that remained behind directed a larger share of their efforts to
cultivating more rewarding, and often new types of cash crops. These two
shifts were all the more sensible given the large increase in labor costs
that resulted from the combined effects of a larger demand for agricultural
labor while its supply shrunk. Although greater Government attention to the
sector assisted the farmers in their ability to respond to the new opportuni-
ties, it is the enterprising Yemeni farmer himself with whom most of the
initiative rests.



- 8 -
28.       The net effect of these counter balancing responses, namely, the
reduction in cultivated area and the shift to higher yielding varieties and
higher valued crops bas been a relatively stagnant performance in the value
of agricultural production. Real value-added in the sector as a whole hardly
grew over the 1978-80 period (the sector still contributes some 38 percent of
GDP). However, it would be misleading to interpret this lack of overall
growth as poor performance.  For although the area cultivated with cereals
and coffee shrunk because of the abandonment of less competitive marginal
land, the yield for all crops, including cereals, increased because of better
techniques and varieties, many new profitable crops were introduced, and the
production of domestically consumed specialty crops was greatly expanded.
Similarly, the dramatic increase in imports of foodstuffs both in total value
and in variety was a response of an open economy to higher incomes and adapt-
ing tastes, and should not be viewed as evidence of poor performance by the
sector.
29.       However, despite the economic rationality inherent in the response
of the Yemeni farmer to the change in his economic environment, the problems
that resulted cannot be ignored. The higher income and altered tastes have
made the country more dependent on imported foodstuffs while its food exports,
which were never substantial, dwindled to almost nil. The higher wages and
land rental values have also worked against the competitiveness of domestic
production whether for export or for import substitution. This, in a country
where agriculture has always been the mainstay and is likely to remain its
major source of domestic value added, is a matter of concern.
30.       Now that workers' remittances seem to have stabilized and are not
likely to increase signficantly in the future, the domestic economy has to
become more self-reliant in generating enough income to finance its growing
investment needs as well as in curtailing the growth of imports by substi-
tuting with domestic production. Given the economy's limited potential for
industrial development and the uncertainty that is inevitably associated with
the search for mineral resources, growth in agriculture has to be relied upon
as the main productive activity that could sustain the improvement in the
standard of living, albeit at a slower pace, which was made possible by the
inflows of remittances.
31.       Moreover, the stabilization in the level of remittances is in large
part due to the saturation in the demand in neighboring countries for Yemeni
labor. This has already had the effect of depressing wage rates for un-
skilled and agricultural labor in Yemen to more reasonable levels. Witb
time, such a trend is likely to make domestic production more competitive.
Thus, the stabilization of remittances is likely to have the dual effects of
reducing the relative costs of production in Yemen and of highlighting the
importance of the need to rejuvenate and expand agricultural production as a
main source of income.
32.       The potential for agricultural growth is considerable, especially
through the achievement of higher yields. Additional growtb is also possible
through a switch from lower to higher value crops and, to a lesser extent,



- 9 -
through an increase in the cultivated area. There has already been some
success in achieving higher yields and switcbing to higher value new crops
thanks to both the initiative and responsiveness of Yemeni farmers and the
services provided by the Government and aid-donors in the areas of applied
research, training, extension and credit, in which IDA has been a major
contributor. However, much more needs to be done before the full potential
is realized. The proposed project aims at achieving some of this potential
through the further strengthening of applied agricultural research, extension
and training. A recently appraised agricultural credit project would
strengthen the credit delivery system.
33.       Government objectives in the agricultural sector, as identified in
the First Five-Year Plan (1977-81), are directed towards reducing dependence
on food imports by increasing agricultural production, raising the nutri-
tional level of the population, expanding agricultural research, extension
and credit, and training Yemenis in order to build up the country's agricul-
tural institutions. High priority was, therefore, assigned to irrigated
agriculture, mainly the Tihama plains and the high rainfall areas of the
Southern Uplands and the Central Highlands, and to training at all levels.
34.       Actual growth of agriculture fell considerably short of target over
the period of the First Five-Year Plan mainly because economic incentives
worked against agriculture and also because the benefits from most of the
projects which started during the Plan period will not materialize until the
mid-1980s. Moreover, since the Plan made minimum provisions for the effects
of a higher rate of inflation than expected, rising costs and the increasing
scarcity of labor of all types, the start of some projects, particularly
those with large construction components, has been delayed and others have
been reduced in scope.
IDA Involvement in YAR's Agriculture Sector
35.       The proposed project would be the tenth IDA-financed project in
agriculture, including fisheries. IDA strategy in assisting agricultural
development has reflected the Government's emphasis on institution building
and on initiating efforts to modernize agriculture in areas with known poten-
tial. IDA's involvement in this sector started in FY73 with Tihama I project
for the development of Wadi Zabid (Cr. 376), cofinanced with the Kuwait Fund.
The project, which was completed in December 1979, faced cost overruns and
supplementary financing was provided by both cofinanciers (IDA Credit 376-1).
However, the benefits and the economic rate of return of the project are well
above appraisal estimates. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) was
generally favorable about all project achievements. Three more Tihama proj-
ects (Credits 805, 880 and 978) were approved between FY78 and FY80. The
projects provide credit, extension, rural roads, water supply and irrigation
for Wadi Rima and Wadi Mawr. Other external cofinanciers involved in these
projects include the Kuwait Fund, IFAD, the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau,
the Netherlands, the EEC Special Action Fund and the United Kingdom. Other
agricultural projects include the FY75 Southern Uplands Rural Development
Project (SURDP I) (Cr. 545), cofinanced by the Abu Dhabi Fund; the FY76 Grain
Storage and Processing project (Cr. 636), cofinanced by the Saudi Fund; the
FY77 Livestock Credit and Processing project (Cr. 662), cofinanced by the



- 10 -
Kuwait Fund, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom; the FY80 Fisheries
Development project (Cr. 1025), cofinanced by the Danish Government; and the
FY81 SURDP II project (Cr. 1067) cofinanced with IFAD, Abu Dhabi Fund, and
the Swiss Development Cooporation. In addition, IDA was the executing agency
for a UNDP project, Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries (MAF), which was completed in 1979. IDA is at present the execut-
ing agency for a UNDP project which supports agricultural research and pro-
vides institutional support to MAF, and which is cofinanced by IDA and the
EEC Special Action Fund under the Tihama II project.
36.       All projects have suffered from the effects of cost escalation and
from the shortage of trained counterpart staff. The former was dealt with by
increasing the contributions of the beneficiaries and the Government (e.g.,
SURDP I), by securing additional cofinancing (e.g., Grain Processing and
Tihama I), or both. The shortage of Yemeni staff should ease in the mid-1980s
as Yemenis who are at present studying abroad complete their education and
return to YAR. In the interim, to fill counterpart positions, the Government
has been recruiting international staff and permits overseas recruitment of
technicians.
Agricultural Research
37.       Agricultural research was initiated in YAR in 1973 under a UNDP-
supported and FAO-executed project which established a central Agricultural
Research Service (ARS) in Taiz in the Southern Uplands region. It was fol-
lowed in 1974 with a research component in the first IDA-assisted agricul-
tural credit to YAR (Tihama I; Cr. 376-YAR) which was cofinanced with the
Kuwait Fund. Subsequently, an increasing number of commodity-oriented
research was carried out with bilateral assistance (paragraph 39). The
second phase of the UNDP Agricultural Research project started in 1979 with
financial support from the EEC Special Action Fund and IDA through the Tihama
II project (Credit 805). It is being executed by the Bank with FAO subcon-
tracting to supply consultants, UN volunteers and equipment. The major
functions of this project, which will be completed by the end of 1982, are
to: (i) continue, expand and coordinate applied research; (ii) prepare a
national research program including the establishment and operation of
research stations representative of the major agro-ecological zones; (iii)
train extension workers, (iv) improve marketing and disease control of plant
and livestock production; and (v) provide technical support to agricultural
development projects in general.
38.       Progress in the implementation of Phase II has been proceeding well
despite a number of handicaps. Thus, commodity-oriented research has been
carried further, advanced-degree training for eight Yemenis has been initi-
ated in 1980 and 1981 and a library was established. The main handicaps have
been the continued shortage of trained Yemeni manpower, the lack of coordina-
tion among the various sponsors of research activities in YAR, lack of suit-
able research farms and facilities, and shortage of funds.
39.       As indicated above, in addition to UNDP activities, several agen-
cies are supporting research activities in YAR, some as part of rural devel-
opment projects. These include USAID, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands,



- 11 -
and the Federal Republic of Germany. Most of this bilateral research is
oriented towards local priorities. However, all agricultural research
projects have been conducted independently with insufficient regard to the
benefits that would accrue from better coordination. ARS has attempted to
establish an informal research council which would include representatives
from bilateral donors, but the response has been limited to the Research
Department at the Tihama Development Authority (TDA).
40.       There is no national extension service in YAR.  Extension activi-
ties tend to be related to specific projects usually involving foreign aid
donors. As a result, these activities are concentrated in the Tihama and
Southern Uplands, the sites of most foreign funded projects. The research
farms at Taiz and Zabid are presently used to train extension agents and this
has led to close research/extension links. Technical agricultural secondary
schools at Ibb, Surdud and Sanaa (the first is in operation, the second is
ready for operation and the third is planned) are expected to provide an
increasing number of candidates for extension in-service training. Agricul-
tural training abroad has been extensive; since 1974, around 655 students
have gone abroad for bachelor's degrees in agriculture and 65 in veterinary
science. However, the Government has not been able to attract a large number
of the returning graduates because of relatively low salaries and lack of
sufficient incentives.
41.       Despite these and other problems that hamper the effectiveness of
research and extension a number of encouraging results have already been
obtained. These include the following: (i) improved varieties of maize
(Khumaltar) and wheat (Sonalika) were selected, distributed and readily
accepted by the farmers with yields reaching five tons/ha and two tons/ha
respectively; (ii) improved vegetable seeds were selected and distributed;
(iii) in Zabid, new improved varieties of sorghum were introduced from the
Sudan and Egypt; (iv) two new varieties of maize (Tihama Composites 1 and 2)
were distributed to farmers as were several imported varieties of tomatoes,
watermelons, eggplants and onions; (v) a new cotton variety (Coker 310) and a
sunflower composite (Shamus Tihama) were released; and (vi) three new varie-
ties of potatoes, averaging 25 tons/ha, were selected and released under the
Dutch-financed seed potato project in the Central Highlands.
42.       The PPAR for the first Tihama development project (Wadi Zabid,
*         Cr. 376-YAR) concluded that the agricultural researcb component in that
project had significantly contributed to its success. The introduction of
new technology through applied agricultural research and extension for irri-
gated crops in the Wadi Zabid region was readily accepted by farmers despite
a deeply rooted traditional sociopolitical environment. In conclusion, the
positive results from both the Zabid and Southern Uplands agricultural re-
search suggest that the technology packages which would be developed by
applied agricultural research can be successfully disseminated to farmers
through extension centers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project would continue from Phase II of the ongoing
UNDP-sponsored agricultural research project (paragraphs 37-38). It was



- 12 -
prepared by the YAR Government with the belp of consultants. The preparation
report, which was submitted to IDA in August 1981, served as the basis for
project appraisal which took place in October/November 1981. Negotiations
for the proposed credit were held in Washington from April 26 to 29, 1982.
The YAR delegation was headed by HE Dr. Ahmad Al-Hamdani, Minister of
Agriculture and Fisheries. A staff appraisal report entitled "Yemen Arab
Republic - Agricultural Research and Development Project" (No. 3767a-YAR
dated May 7, 1982) is being circulated separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map
of the project area is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
44.       The proposed project is designed to assist the YAR Government in
expanding and strengthening the national agricultural research program in the
three regions with the highest agricultural potential--the Central Highlands,
the Southern Uplands and the Tropical Lowlands. It would develop, through
applied agricultural research, technological packages which can be dissemi-
nated to Yemeni farmers through existing and expanded extension centers. The
project would be implemented over the 1983-87 period and would comprise the
following components: (i) research infrastructure development, including
civil works, equipment and material; (ii) construction and furnishing of
extension centers; and (iii) technical assistance and training.
Research Infrastructure Development
45.       The administrative headquarters of the ongoing UNDP-supported agri-
cultural research project is at Taiz, the location of the main Agricultural
Research Station (ARS); a central laboratory and a small agricultural library
are located in this Taiz station whicb has a farm of about 16 ha. The project
also operates a small station in Ibb and liaises with the research department
of the Tihama Development Authority (TDA) at Surdud. The proposed project
aims at expanding the experience at Taiz to regions with the highest agricul-
tural potential as a first step towards extending applied agricultural re-
search to all climatic zones in YAR. For this purpose, the Government will
establisb an Agricultural Research and Development Authority (ARDA) (para-
grapb 51), and the proposed project will provide for the establishment of
ARDA headquarters and the Central Highlands Regional Research Center (RRC) in
the Dhamar area and the Tropical Lowlands (the Tihama plain) RRC in Surdud.
In addition to operating a regional department for the Central Highland agri-
cultural research, ARDA's headquarters would also include a Central Support
Services department which will provide analytical and documentation services
for all researcb activities in YAR. The ARS' Taiz site would become the
Southern Uplands RRC; it is well developed and therefore it only requires
minimal physical development. However, since this site is relatively small,
partly saline and surrounded by residential buildings, the YAR Government has
indicated during the negotiations of this proposed credit that it will
endeavor to find, before December 31, 1983, at least 10 ha of additional land
suitable for the Southern Uplands agricultural research activities. ARDA
headquarters would be located in the Dhamar area, on 44 ha of a site (126 ha)
presently utilized by the Livestock Range and Pasture Improvement Station



- 13 -
established under the IDA-assisted Livestock Credit and Processing Project
(Cr. 662-YAR). The Tropical Lowland RRC would be at Surdud, the site of an
agricultural secondary school established under IDA-assisted Tbird Education
project (Cr. 915-YAR) and TDA's Surdud farm. The sites of ARDA's headquar-
ters and the RRCs are owned by the Government. The transfer of 44 ha in the
Dhamar area to ARDA is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(c)).
46.       The proposed project, therefore, provides for establishing ARDA
headquarters and Central Highlands RRC in the Dhamar area and Tropical Low-
lands RRC in Surdud. Specifically, it provides for (a) the construction and
equipping of a main office and laboratory building in the Dhamar area and
another in Surdud. The ARDA headquarters' laboratory would be equipped to
provide support services for the RRCs and other research projects in YAR; (b)
the construction of staff housing in the Dhamar area and Surdud; (c) library
and documentation center for ARDA headquarters and minimal library facilities
for the RRCs; (d) vehicles and equipment; and (e) ancillary buildings for
nerbicide and pesticide storage and preparation areas, vehicle storage and
repair, slatted nursery areas, screen houses, warehouses and storage
facilities.
Construction of Extension Centers
47.       Technological packages developed by the agricultural research pro-
grams would continue to be disseminated to farmers by extension agents. ARDA
would provide extension agents with the results of its applied research pro-
grams to ensure that sucb results reacb Yemeni farmers in the three regions.
In the Southern Uplands and the Tihama regions, six ongoing IDA-assisted and
one FAQ-assisted projects are providing for extension services. Therefore,
the proposed project would also provide for the construction and furnishing
of two extension supervision centers and nine extension centers in the Dhamar
and Mabar areas in the Central Highlands.
Technical Assistance and Training
48.       Applied agricultural research in YAR would continue to depend on
expatriate experts as Yemeni scientists are still few in number. Accord-
ingly, the project provides for 50 man-years of long-term and 20 man-months
*            of short-term consultancy services to assist in the researcb programs and the
administration of ARDA headquarters and the RRCs. These specialists will
also be available to provide on-the-job training for the Yemeni staff. The
*            project would also provide for postgraduate-degree training of 32 Yemeni
staff (paragraphs 54-55).
The Research Program
49.       The national research program is divided into six major commodity
groups, with emphasis on particular crops within these groups varying by
region: (i) cereals and feed legumes; (ii) vegetables and food legumes;
(iii) fruits and tree crops; (iv) livestock and range management; (v) for-
estry; and (vi) industrial crops. Major emphasis will be placed on the first
three groups because of their importance in the diet of the population, rural



- 14 -
income and the import volumes of these commodities. Research programs relat-
ing to the other groups take much longer to be effective and to achieve quan-
tifiable results. But because of the degradation of the range levels and the
need for the initiation of rapid reforestation, the project would provide for
a livestock/range management specialist and a forestry specialist to be
located at the Central Highlands with primary responsibility for continuing
and expanding on-going research as well as for coordinating the work of other
researchers. As soils, climate, water and other conditions differ among
regions, each region would be responsible for its own research program, with
a national Commodity Research coordinator appointed by ARDA for each major
commodity group.
50.       An essential objective of the project is that research findings on
improved varieties and production technology would be verified in farmers'
fields and distributed to the extension service for immediate dissemination
to the farmers. Because horizontal expansion of production is limited due to
the scarcity of water, increase in production will be sought mainly by devel-
oping new or improved technological packages that are acceptable to the
farmers.  The principles governing the research efforts would be as follows:
(a) research would be of an applied problem-oriented nature;
(b) emphasis would be on problems that would give the quickest pay out
with lowest cost;
(c) emphasis on simple, effective and low-cost methods that the farmer
can afford; and
(d) due consideration would be given to the existing resource base, for
example, terraced agriculture, agricultural labor shortage, and
scarce resources such as water.
Project Implementation
51.       The project would be implemented over a period of five years.  All
civil works would be completed or contracted for by June 1985. The execution
of the project would be the responsibility of the Agricultural Research and
Development Authority, a new legal entity to which the Government would grant
a quasi-autonomous status for setting staff salaries and determining the
scope of its operations. ARDA will have the responsibility and authority to
plan, coordinate, support, and conduct applied agricultural research in YAR.
It will be managed by a Board of Directors, chaired by the Minister of Agri-
culture and Fisheries, which will include representatives from the Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF), the Central Planning Organization (CPO),
the Ministry of Finance, the University of Sanaa Faculty of Agriculture when
it is established, and TDA. The Board would be responsible for the formula-
tion of the national agricultural research policies, approval of the annual
research programs, and the annual ARDA budget. The establishment of ARDA and
the appointment of a director general and an accountant would be conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Development Credit Agreement, Sec-
tion 7.01(d)).
52.       ARDA would be run by a director general assisted by two deputies
for research and administration, respectively. They will be stationed at
ARDA headquarters near Dhamar when the complex is constructed. The day-to-day



- 15 -
work of each of the two RRCs would be the responsibility of a regional direc-
tor wbo will be stationed in the respective center. The above five managers
make up the Research Coordination Committee (RCC) which have the overall
responsibility for the implementation of the proposed project. The RCC would
be backstopped by a National Agricultural Research Council (NARC), which
consists of RCC members, the commodity research coordinators (paragraph 49),
representatives of the extension services centers and representatives of
other agricultural research organizations in the country. NARC would review
and approve all research programs in YAR and would formulate multidisci-
plinary teams for commodity-oriented research programs as well as farming
systems research. It would also review training requirements for ARDA and
would approve nominations for those to be trained locally and abroad. Yemeni
counterparts would be assigned to all appointed expatriate managers and/or
researchers.
53.       Physical Implementation Unit (PIU).  The Government has initiated
the establishment of a PIU to expedite the physical implementation of the
project. The PIU would report to the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries
and coordinate its work with the Director General of ARS. It would be inte-
grated into ARDA, upon the latter's establishment, as an operational planning
unit, and it would be responsible for the overall coordination of ARDA's
planning and physical development.
Staffing, Training and Technical Assistance
54.       The proposed project envisages by the end of 1987 that ARDA will
have a professional Yemeni staff of about 44 senior scientists (PhD and MSc)
and 49 junior scientists (BSc or equivalent), supported by 121 administrative
and technical staff, as compared to existing ARS Yemeni staff of 5, 17 and 42
respectively. This staff increase would be phased over five years; the
quality of the recruited staff, together with the speed of recruitment, would
be critical to the success of the proposed project. A total of 32 advanced
training fellowships would be made available under the project, 9 for PbD and
23 for MSc. Those chosen for fellowship support would be required to serve
for at least one year with ARDA prior to their departure abroad and to agree
to work for ARDA at a research station upon completion of their training, for
a period at least twice as long as the fellowship period reduced by the
period worked with ARDA prior to departure. Short-term fellowships for a
total of 20 man-months are also provided under the project for training
abroad in such specialties as improved technology and methodology.
55.       ARDA permanent staff would be substantially strengthened through a
technical assistance training program encompassing 50 man-years of consul-
tancy services for various applied research programs or for specialized
assistance to ARDA management. Such consultancy assistance would be particu-
larly important to ARDA as research programs are initiated or expanded and as
ARDA Yemeni staff are being trained abroad. The Government would contract,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, an internationally recruited
firm or organization to assist ARDA in the (i) recruitment of the individual
consultants and experts; (ii) administration of the overseas training pro-
gram; and (iii) procurement of equipment. The conclusion of such a contract



- 16 -
would be made a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(e)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       ARDA would develop an adequate system to belp standardize the
monitoring and evaluation reports. It would ensure that satisfactory report-
ing of its activities, including detailed implementation arrangements, would
be prepared by the PIU, the headquarters and the RCCs with copies forwarded
to IDA. The PIU would prepare quarterly reports on the physical activities
under the project, and the RCC would prepare an annual report and semi-annual
statements of researcb programs and the technical activities of ARDA. A
mid-term evaluation of project activities would be carried out by the end of
the third year of the project execution, by a team of two internationally
recognized experts selected by ARDA and employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.05(d)). About
three man-months of consultancy services would be provided for this purpose.
The following special analyses would be carried out as part of the evaluation
of project activities: (a) impact of the research on production; (b) evalua-
tion of individual lines of research; (c) cost/benefit analysis of research
programs; (d) socio-economic effects of the application of new technologies;
and (e) RCC's system for monitoring research.
Project Costs and Financing
57.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at about $32.4 million equivalent, of which about 62 percent, or about
$20.0 million equivalent, represents the foreign exchange component. These
estimates, adjusted to reflect the first quarter of 1982 prices, are based on
prices quoted in current contracts of works, goods and services under the
ongoing UNDP-assisted research project and other similar activities. The
project is exempt from taxes and duties. Physical contingencies of 15 per-
cent for civil works and research farm development, and 10 percent for other
development costs were assumed in computing the cost estimates. Price con-
tingencies of 8 percent p.a. for 1982 and 1983, and 7 percent p.a. thereafter
have been applied to all items locally procured, and for items subject to
foreign procurement 8.5 percent p.a. for 1982, 7.5 percent p.a. for 1983-85,
and 6.0 percent p.a. thereafter. The base cost related to the project com-
ponents are $10.7 million for development costs (civil works, vehicles,
equipment and material); $7.4 million for technical assistance; and $5.9
million for incremental operating costs (paragraph 58). Experts' services of
about 52 man-years have been costed at about $7,500 per man-month, including
travel, subsistence, and overhead. All experts would be hired by the
Government through an internationally recruited firm or organization.
58.       The expansion of the applied agricultural research program and the
establishment of an Agricultural Research and Development Authority (para-
graphs 51-53) with a quasi-autonomous status for setting staff salaries,
imply an increase in the number of Yemenis employed in applied agricultural
research and a rise in salaries to attract and retain Yemeni scientists



- 17 -
(paragraph 54). The incremental operating costs of about $8.0 million, in-
cluding contingencies, provides for the salaries of additional Yemeni staff,
the increase in salaries of all Yemeni staff and operating costs for addi-
tional vehicles, equipment and facilities included in the project. The
Government agreed to provide funds for these incremental costs as well as
other local financing requirements under the project (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.01).
59.       Two advances from IDA's Project Preparation Facility (PPF), of
$250,000 made to cover project preparation costs, and of $150,000 to assist
in preparing engineering designs and documentation of civil works, would be
refinanced under this credit.
60.       The proposed IDA credit of SDRs 5.4 million (approximately $6.0
million equivalent), represents about 19 percent of total project costs. The
credit will finance 44 percent of the foreign exchange costs and 16 percent
of local costs of the technical assistance component, including the PPF ad-
vance, and about 17 percent of the foreign exchange costs of the infrastruc-
ture development and extension centers components. The Government of the
Republic of Italy and IFAD are expected to provide $8.9 million equivalent
(of which $0.9 million in grant) or 27 percent total project costs, and $5.8
million equivalent, or 18 percent of total project costs, respectively.  The
Government would finance the remaining local costs of $11.7 million equiva-
lent, including the total incremental costs of about $8.0 million equiva-
lent. The signing of cofinancing agreements between the Government and the
aforementioned cofinanciers would be conditions of effectiveness of the pro-
posed credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(a) and (b)).
Procurement
61.       Civil works contracts comprising research and extension facilities
($1.4 million) which are relatively small to attract foreign bidders, would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding following procedures
which are acceptable to IDA and do not exclude foreign bidders. Laboratory
equipment and library and research materials amounting to $0.6 million would
be procured by limited international bidding. Civil works, vehicles, equip-
ment and materials to be financed by Italy would be procured in accordance
with its guidelines. To provide experts required for implementing the proj-
ect, and whose services would be financed by IFAD, Italy and IDA, the Govern-
ment shall secure the services of an internationally recognized firm or
organization in accordance with Bank group guidelines. This firm or organi-
zation would also administer the post-graduate training program abroad and
assist in the purchase of equipment.
Disbursement
62.       The proceeds of the proposed credit, to be disbursed over a
five-year period, would finance (a) civil works other than prefabricated
structures, 46 percent of foreign expenditures and 13 percent of local



- 18 -
expenditures; (b) laboratory equipment, furniture and library documents,
100 percent of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures; (c)
consultants' services, 32 percent of foreign expenditures and 17 percent of
local expenditures; (d) fellowships, 100 percent of total expenditures; and
(e) project preparation advances, amounts due. The balance of items (a) and
(c) will be financed through IFAD's loan.
Accounts and Audit
63.       Separate project accounts and appropriate accounting procedures
would be established within ARDA to record all project-related financial
transactions. The Government appointment of a qualified and experienced
accountant would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01(d)). Moreover, independent
auditors acceptable to IDA would audit these accounts and would submit their
reports to IDA through ARDA not later than eight months after the close of
each fiscal year (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(b)).
Benefits and Justification
64.       Despite the reduction in agricultural land area during the 1970s
(paragraphs 27-34), a slight increase in agricultural production took place
mainly as a consequence of applied agricultural research which, through
extension services, assisted farmers in shifting to higher value and higher
yield crops. However, much of the sector continues to employ traditional
agricultural practices and rudimentary technology. The improvement of YAR's
agricultural production and incomes, especially among the small farmers, will
therefore require continuous efforts to further agricultural productivity and
efficiency and to promote crop diversification. Yemeni agriculture has the
potential to supply a larger and more diversified basket of goods within its
land and climate resource endowments by increasing yields of existing crops,
raising cropping intensities and introducting new products. The proposed
agricultural research and development project directly contributes to these
important goals. The project would also have a major impact in strengthening
the organization and production orientation of YAR's agricultural research
system. It is also designed to establish ARDA, assist it in consolidation of
the progress already made under the first two phases of UNDP-supported agri-
cultural research in the country, and help assure continuity in the further
improvement of applied research planning and execution and of effective
collaboration between extension and research services.
Environmental Impact
65.       Based on the premise that the technology developed at ARDA research
stations would be successfully disseminated to the farmers in these regions,
the probable environmental impact of the proposed project would be positive.
The development of improved farming techniques, soil conservation, rational
water and fertilizer use, improved range management, and afforestation would
contribute to conserve and improve the environment.



- 19 -
Risks
66.       Project risks relate to (i) possible Government delay in legisla-
tive action for granting ARDA quasi-autonomous status for setting staff sala-
ries and determining the scope of its operations; (ii) inability of ARDA to
attract sufficient number of Yemeni scientists to undertake applied agricul-
tural research; and (iii) the adequacy of linkages between the research and
the extension functions. These risks are minimized by the Government commit-
ment to this project. During negotiations the Government agreed to establish
ARDA by January 1, 1983.  Shortage of Yemeni staff is expected to persist in
the medium-term in light of extreme scarcity of university graduates in YAR.
In the interim, the Government will recruit international staff for the job.
Finally, measures for improving research programming, coordination, monitor-
ing and evaluation, expansion of extension services in the Central Highlands,
and close association among the Government's various agricultural and rural
development programs should help to strengthen the linkages between research
and extension.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in the Section III of Annex III. The transfer of land in the
Dhamar area to ARDA, the establishment of ARDA, appointment of ARDA's
director general and accountant, appointment of a consulting firm or an
international organization, and the signing of the cofinancing agreements
have been made additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 7.01).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
*            70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 17, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN. ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE   GES
LANI) AREA (ITOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
IOTAL              [95.0                                                          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       85.7                                    MOST RECENT            NORTH AFR1CA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    i970 Lb ESTIMATE /b            MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       ..           ..      420.0 *                865.5                     1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPIOON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          7.4         17.8       73.1                  758.3                    1324.1
PUPUYLATIOh AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATI1ON, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  4039.0         4835.0    5693.0                      *
URBAN POPULAIION (PERCENT OF TUTAL)  3.4             6.0        9.8                   45.2                      64.2
POPULATlON PROJECTIONS
POPULATlON IN YEAR 20U0 (MILLIONS)                            9.1
STATIONARY PUPULATION (MILLIUNS)                             22.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2130
POPwLATION DENSITY
PER SU. KM.                          20.7         24.8       29.2                   36.3                      34.3
PER 54. KM. AGRICULTIURAL LAND      48.0          56.8       65.1                 442.7                       94.5
PJPULATIUN AGE STRUCTIURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.4          43.0       45.6                   44.2                      40.7
i1-64 YRS.                           54.4         53.9       51.2                    52.4                      55.3
65 YRS. AND AROVE                      3.2          3.1        3.2                    3.4                       4.0
PUPULATION GROWTH KARE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.9          1.8        1.8                    2.7                       2.4
UREAN                                 7.8          7.5        7.2                    4.6                       3.7
CRUDE H:RTS RAIE (PER THOUSAND)        49.6         48.7       47.1                   41.5                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RAIE (PER THOUSAND)        28.7         26.4       23.1                   12.8                       8.4
GROSS 8EPRODUCIION RATE                  ..          N.5        3.2                    2.9                       2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT UF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
P0u0 AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-1G0)           118.0         84.0       95.1                   96.3                      108.3
PER LAPITA SUPPLY UF
CALORlES (PERCENT OF
RESlJIREAENTS)                    S8.u         78.0       91.0                  110.4                     107.6
PROIEINS (CRAMS5 PER DAY)           69.0         57.0       68.0                   73.4                      65.8
OF WHICh ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0         15.0        19.0                  17.1                       34.0
CHILL  (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       53.9         47.9       40.6                   14.9                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9            38.6       42.1                   55.9                      64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..             ..         ..                     ..                       70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULAI1ON)
TOTAL                                 ..           4.0        4.0                   59.4                      65.7
URBAi                                 ..          45.0      30.0                   83.9                       79.7
RURAL                                  ..          2.0        2.0                  40.8                      43.9
ACLESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF OPLILATOUN)
IOTAL                                 ..            ..        ..                     ..                      59.9
URANS                                 ..           ..         ..                     ..                      75. 7
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                     ..                      30.4
POPULAI1ON PER PHYSICIAN                 ..     22126.1   12459.8                  4174.5                    1728.2
PUPELA1UON PER NURSING PERSON           ..            ..    5656.2                 1780.5                    1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TUOAL                             2901.1       1552.0    1994.3                   647.4                     471.2
RBAD                                  ..            . .    255.6                  547.2                     558.0
P.URAL                                ..            ..   30136.1                 3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 8E)              ..           ..       16.2                   25.3
H0GOSENG
AVERAGE SIbL OF HOUSEROLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..        5.0
URLAN                                 ..           ..        4.0/c
RURAL                                 ..           ..        6. O.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUIAL                                  ..           ..        2.8
URBAh. ,                                            .,        1.8/c
KURAL                                 ..           ..         3.1
ALCELS IU LLECIXiLICY (PERCENI
OF DW4LLINGCS)
TUTAL                                  ..           ..
UR8AN                                  ..          ..       56.5/c
RURAL                                 ..            ..



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEEA2GES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           NORTH EAST          LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0         12.0       29.0                  85.1                     101.7
MALE                  14.0         23.0       50.0                  101.5                    103.0
FEMALE                 0.4          2.0        7.0                  67.5                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.1          1.0        4.0                  38.C                      35.3
MALE                    ..          2.0        8.0                  48.1                      34.9
FEMALE                  ..          0.1        1.0                  28.3                      35. 6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OP SECONDARY)    ..            2.0        5.0/d                11.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.0         51.0       38.0/d                34.9                      29.6
SECONDARY                           17.0         24.0       i8.o7T                23.8                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          3.0         10.0/e    13.0                   43.C                      80.C
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                  16.3                      42.b
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         14.0       18.3                 121.0                     215.0
Tw sn..f.t6ko rca. lhQuuos,
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                  37.4                      89.'
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         11.6         ..                  35.9                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        1.0                   3.0                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS,       1225.7       1361.8    1439.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.7          4.5        5.2                  10.5                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.0         79.0       76.3                  43.5                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   7.0          9.0      10.9                   27.3                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.3         28.2       25.3                  26.4                      31.&
MALE                                  57.7         55.0       50.2                  47.0                      49.0
FEMALE                                 2.3          2.5        2.5                   5.7                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.6        1.9                    1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                  271.4 4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      IO0.0                 144.6                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US'i PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                  400.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      83.1                  290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
c In the major cities of Sanaa, Taiz and Hodaidah; Id 1975; /e 1973.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank atlas are $460 (at 1978-80 prices) and 5812
thousand.
May, 1981



- 22  -                                                           ~~~~~~ANNEX  I
Page 3 of 5
ltElIINTIdNt OF SOCIAL. tnbATORlt
torte'   Alth-egh tbe dat  at  aea  feat11    I a'l es  genacaly ja! e   th   atatatateadrlibe    tattoae    etd   htte   a                                          eOt
setlataly  ton-'rhcbeI Iena  the lac_ o  aeaatttd   actttn nd   otntena ace  bydateet   poatnicaIbIatte   aa                                               h   aaec
.talaee   _efo   t  deett-the aettt If   gttd,inditpa    tea-de, and atearttecicecranc]a  dif t..e.saIe  b--ce   -ot--e.-
Tbcnefecetac genapeare  (II  hece           ......ct IcOyattheaa,1bltct taaatyssd  (2)  &tanr   gtpelreeaanehen  htghtc  -te-g. ttictcta-                 atnt'ra
o I te eohett  torte   (temt Ic  'CptlttlE_        i  eaie'fatrhr   MdleOtn    ot   t e   s   rdl   et   etre  b thas   of                                     ll treger ,
taaefneae                   tte    ece   nolIaE.th  antge  ace                    l "tMalat  lotafte   Nsttnetc  aete  ltnt ca --b tn atr  and bhant otyae
aejaeltat   bccanetlae  eagrt.chae IIafattht locatt    tt_etecoen                            actErceetgh    macame                               h.e-atttc   n -lbtyafdh t
attdeneactaccra.ctotaabcacaraedereacaet.catet-tf    ndtatacaaotter                                  t     gc ateencaettree..ld roratetc,talea
..ne .tdtr -tte -t-aree   a         -attetntnyadr-cfErn L                                                                         .. ..... E
fAr  rps   asae  , ake   ndknte  tt nstcf    lefaln;IISdteIatlItnItft ae.te-tleec   eabe1et   ocannlysafe
-I.                                                               Id~~~~~~~~~y tlae  etytectt   fe- t-l-ednt   tnf   ngenIpIydco
roaedb  Ie'ltrocetn ettd atatlld bank Atllea (1977-79 baalay; b96I,                              ata ecla  ttes  a   ara-tl    tffdb    pryerP.n(hasby
1971, tnt 1979 lace.                                                        e-dtttl a            Itetnt, ntt  MEaIfe, l c    i.tteehe. abt     -letaa
aa_tt  -nd peotdc a Ileted  -attf  a!satlfaI ltc.    t   en.
tttERd Co Ternrtl  rEt kyCo -  te-  c._atec    raartaecg    _cadOats   ycPts:,  lba, ta-p-latn lads bt0  rttc..,                                                      ecelaptec
tndlftlc.yettles,tt.ta1aaadhyet-,.eoatangcotecalels-dadroatopta                                                            Itaeraahtepit-adcdolnnasnt
tr Ee)t   tars   7oa   plaetpttpt;16,17.ad  9)atsa.tatledbcpaeecIooe   t  aotttl
dat.                                                                                   Amtsbae or bsteattedTatl  ohe   ofeanalcyho rIddtI csey
yPyPbltyt  det  blOt~ SaTITSliCS
lanI fyttla, td-eac(ttestos   -it  f JL-le  1; 1(60, 1 9 7 0, d 19796               HOUINGI
Uehse  ttolattt (actttt.trceall - tat  it Otb-atI tota  PIP,.a-tpt;                       A hoae..                          IFssa  t      ctp  tthfodal   bc haeltn  qoace
lIft ctstt dcfcnleltcotoebanacaaoeaoaffan   onyenabclctyo'  cap aItar   aneas                               becs   oldceaocynIdthetnolodednLI
1960,ll.    971, ab-    -lt)       - Iota.!il  , tl the otefl  toI-sbttenl                                           l paroac.d.     y
Fotolat Pan dcofepclar                                                                           t.c.s .....     ocsnetos-cc                    catadac              Aesenn
led,ad f-n1l  IEI coecany   c btlirto  at 7e yer ,-   The tac-                               Const talIn1)Insat.s..ttrs   t  ltttqoctr
focfrollcreaealaoottora    lanlsae.cntt.dpllter                   tnttt.rtar-.         d-I anroc delltiteeeyeettrl-.
fccttlleyatrytdtt1ectraae   nrelaoeyacotaellyplstcctgpsrtornanrc.~~~~
tattoonryatcoasynsctofr                    ecctot o_. ,ealoacnooloo                          OCATO
Saettoneryet.ctsrntr -Inrastt .ona      ..onlalt-o rhert Et tt   --t~~ altt                 P,etoaro srhenl1   toaltl  at  fesee-yp                tta, sabe esd telc
encbcctcas   lseqaleteetrtaadlobatec-.ote                                                      tclctto(nenh:                    yctsayhetnls  yeccInag If tIrepeecla
salts  onast   Totsltebcc   ol   fotctty                      _ae    etln   o                       onr  sho-            tota a-st-rl tocealy In-lodes children aged 6-11
of  -tcoela-ctpatt  enat I-t.  Tbecs: -ra                     -i-Iraet....n..caosrtaithonnerelcdeatc                                            LEals TtIyItcdll             Ideeen
'Inlic"I or "Ic hasps of      -c  e     -e d r-t  t-tttif  h  erlecrsb-aaate 'oet   s-no  abate tc offoeicl ethan1 ee.'..
yctll, att.roc    alecteott   aetrpee                                                 aaoerete-o              L.Isatfnl-opsd    sbe;cadc
Iocot -tatol.-   II IlearIIthe(nlret-olae    for  yeacc of   ysn-d p bsffIen-                                                                                         tIn
sto - c her  oee-hcP                                                                               -eally of lent, 17 rea..ctf aIgld accc        Inderetooec  er _tnertl
P-yl19, 1970, at  IlfIt.                                                                          bt-eehrrtI    Iaoea   n  ennsn-_e tactecaI                                de
lat-n  1960, 19701..an  1(09 data                                                                 -dlI ssayrr            -epet         --ltrs-eadctt   (able to enad end   te
Go-ttatlcch Ratc 7oIrect-abnL          t-Aoca   trots I stc  yf -bat eiy-                IC--etttit,lhalllbl.i.     .d15Y .   d   I
yoyoia-lfo; 1950C60 1970.cod 1979  1970t 79                                                        elltnacyoebtttes.          %tI1_
pOdE.  teeth Rteen(_ec nhtas-d) - onooat  sh.....c thoetp  o   se              --ycRaI neceitlnee   ocsosrot tto(-altyeo   aenr   o   an
Porataian:- 1960, 1970, and 1979 data.                                                             htedsnaoelna   obt  pttbyet a.orltht;en,de  n
tplbty-onn;onal   fItet9609nnd)eI  16,190   n  19797sen taneres aolb bed  Iteto1eine.
rsnletrlatttta-Acreoeoen,datral)tbercetId-Ol.toetnetfaryteItbecnr  bssacadoalsa(lnceher   abe. ab
of-   -p-td-hert   g    fl   yanncaebrp-tro    etc   toIfleenIfe C -                                    etota taoIf lee d ee:   n  eyenlae    -Y  bbts  the a- erage tr-
all nrtetdoeento eees9c   roat                     ...lsrtonet'del9ly IEnece  boees  eesoe,deie   eactei
flIp ff10 Otlodlt,lPtdll  ..                                                                      to ihe-  "deter  Of en. .pec  at.     etfa  te.ee
Ipc   fCodyprcctorbOt   lbI71b      laao  tntyt Fitoal                                             tlect  annel litfdInt  eat Cas  lee I.tteb   stesahto
pedyotp   e   odrolla                  eoatoepoc    sdadfe   n                                 nltkessn sold4  dorfngHHI'~11   the yI eeh ..eod  -tg  Shd.l . toe h.den-tatnaca
In oecatsndeeyeenbee  F.                                                                   IIIsodccetpyoe_ecsaeygot_(c.t.sofaco.e.end.e.Psatin
tosnear afscgar(obtcsrcedcbleaIdtordelt-nn1yrts let.....eaet
teeday., Iotallable          'tll",rsele   acstceoPp  Ian Isd ct  les                           nod _naabe th,190ed_tb   aa
sPpns   t   bes   ntae0    e   o  lt  se oeeca   ed  seeds,d                                    FeILskle   ..Idoy -d ysna lh   har feer a i   yecrsctag o-   tcIa   locfote
Iaatttalsbrsed Itf _td   ytcsctenlnss'dcnlbnp.tsoce.slptas-c.p..e.trnrenccag...te,attt
eetsI             bI_tletetyolhsc   etby Ptlt_a,c  sfIdcaof                                   flblegetreng   faalhcoo;91lladttea
oeny- tdtef lsbataadteehog1  -tlantttlasea-aa chcdreteegf.ts  et.nasnletnyl,hroeesnttrdertfneaetre
bpraabol -Intel;  19b-t,71970 pl bi     f-1,nan 1977idreed.                                       197OR  tOREd17da.
alloeettet  hI gyass  f total arteac. pee dy end 20 ga.t of1e97 ad9h,19)   n  17   ee.   hs   e  heesd or lI. .crle.p..n..
Itlc  trpncir,1                            ifhotl  5eet -obal-eaCl .. troe d. basaeed             lelceggestnandr    lttoaaPteoondndtcd
ersaatsettotaa    of(rantttolertenadl  geI.f.essltases                                  Ia roee     _loeleotp
atla) teraeeeaoeeracetebcaold,roteadbyaotohamtP                                tonostflrctdncttsbo-asanfyorlesac.cas"Ylattf-none
tre  dt  drte   re   If   .ac;  97  IbISi ae.d 1979 dte,                                         a  taos ol....st.
etarb;96       l _7adtbP(    ___st_JoeldebttcoereoenfbtidslatateterlI                                                                                 n
of lege tee  .h. I1979 leac'      b Iesbe.L    -ctfI   .. Ia                                   abslee   po.teei y  It-s   let      P a tat oe on  len    bet1 1 ttbb  ac,  Ce9e0
eaneenocbaetbee  fespnaner-dbIrtles.db   I   I_ttg ,        Innartaenle(tFclrltnercnt:Ies.IcPraenI.do.  .tcg  p..                                                   etn
toIctharl   e  aren  -  -dIsttttccteot - IaI,t obIn   daby to-IEtrbe  the nidneEd     -cD-d-                                   R       f
of-all    nn--Ier'I,tterto   popoltoo".    becret  IcP oo..  I`    sa'y .'Itt lot
thecol fc1ba   ilatd dyral, p al-   It grttba..t dntsat961.65 of9be0neroed                                                              tott7nItend torOl tateTbRIoloc
taoteto  ped_   yc d leti  -     tocac.b  -  tot60d  t97 t-ee P97  dtt-o  ergh-ttda-
rests qoltlRCepeeola   sbtGRarooUrtylee
tPcsItefcstoyro-aaaat lIe   yobo  tifIpattn
saf.le an  ReItsa teen thrse ..nd -te -IIpe  daehs , an isat-sn  tcre - Y                             d1                      I ih          Id.



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$ Mln)                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1978/79 1/               (Constant Price)
*                                           (Current Prices)            FY1973-79       FY1979
GNP at Market Prices                   3810                    11            -4
GDP at Market Prices                   2800                     8             9
Gross Domestic Investments              900                    19            10
Gross National Savings                  524                    13           -40
Exports of GNFS                          56                    -3           -23
Imports of GNFS                       1441                     21            24
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1978/79) 1/
Value Added    Resident Labor Force 2/  V.A. Per Worker
u~ f'u        °'   Thus.;                                ROa,
Agriculture             1000       38        1450         76          690       50
Industry                 350       14         150          8         2330      170
Services                1250       48         300         16        4170       300
TOTAL/AVERAGE       2600      100        1900       100         1370      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRIs Mln)
% of GNP
1976/77  1977/78  1978/79   1979/80   1978/79
Current Receipts                 1293      1985      2161      2692         13
Current Expenditure               841      1250      1847      2430          11
Current Deficit/Surplus           452       735       314       262           2
Capital Expenditure               603      1167      2618      2426         15
External Assistance, Net          606       691      1904       976         11
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRls Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                     3516      5081      6273      7382
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -939         -990      -609      1199
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                         1474      1555      2199      2830
------Percentages or Index Numbers------
Money Supply at % of GNP           30        33        37       n.a.
Annual Percentage Increase in;
Money Supply                   73        45        23        18
Consumer Price Index           26        17        22        11
1/  Tentative World Bank estimates. The entire national accounts series has
recently been revised by the Government. The new data are being
reviewed by the Bank.
2/  Includes part-time female labor primarily in the traditional sector.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln)
1973/74  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79
Exports of Goods, fob              14        12        19         7          3
Imports of Goods, cif            -194      -382      -730     -906    -1,405
Trade Balance                    -180      -370      -711      -899    -1,402
Non Factor Services, net           14        21       -10       -21         19
Factor Income, net                117       479       896      1160       1007
Workers' Remittances, net   (112)    (457)         (842)   (1090)       (898)
Investment Income, net           (5)     (22)       (54)      (70)      (109)
Balance on Current Account        -49       130       175       240       -376
M & LT Capital, net                62       153       146       165        435
Official Grants                  33       114       104       103        312
Official Loans, net 1/           29        39        42        62        123
Disbursements                 (32)     (42)       (46)     (68)      (133)
Repayments                   (-3)      (-3)      (-4)      (-6)      (-10)
Other Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net   10         -11        133      -32         144
Increase in Reserves (-)          -23      -272      -454      -373       -203
Gross Reserves (end FY) 2/        150       520       974      1347       1550
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, 1979                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1977/78)
Total Outstanding            1,603           Cotton and Cotton Products        31
of which disbursed              727          Coffee                            13
Hides and Skins                   14
DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1980 3/                   Biscuits and Confectionary         9
All Other Commodities             33
%                                               100
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                    1
1/  Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/  Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
3/  Includes workers' remittances and transfers.
EMlDB
January 1981



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(As of March 31, 1982 - $ Million)
A. Statement of IDA Credits 1/
Amount
Credit                                                             (less cancellations)
Number Year       Borrower                Purpose                    IDA   Undisbursed
Five credits fully disbursed 2/                        55.2
465   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Estate                    2.3        0.4
545   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                   10.0        0.04
559   1975 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage            8.1        0.01
611   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Education II                         8.0        0.8
636   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Grain Storage and Processing    5.2             1.5
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0             0.8
670   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage           10.0        3.1
714   1977 Yemen Arab Republic Port Development                     6.0        1.1
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                        11.5       5.4
805   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Tibama Agriculture II               10.5       4.6
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution                  10.0       4.8
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III              15.0      14.2
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                       10.0        6.9
950   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Water Supply and Sewerage           12.0      11.9
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV                5.5       5.4
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development               17.0       16.5
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Rural Development                   17.0       16.6
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Elect.                     12.0       12.0
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Dev.                     12.0      12.0
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development             15.0      15.0
1203 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                        12.0       12.0
1216 3/1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geothermal Exp.   2.0             2.0
Total                                                 271.3 1/  147.1
of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                                 271.3
Total undisbursed                                                147.1
1/ Excluding $7 million credit for textile rehabilitation project which was
cancelled on October 31, 1979.
2/ Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
3/ Not yet effective.



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 7
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year             Obligor             Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice        Dairy Products         2.4       -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                             2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                   -                -
Total commitments now held by IFC                   2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C. Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were
approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative
expert. The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and
$425,000.
D. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Key staff for the Industrial Estate Development Authority have
been appointed and advisory services for operations and civil engineering
are being secured. Feasibility studies for the planned industrial estates
in Taiz and Hodeidah are underway.
1
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaulation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 17, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The project is completed. The problem of cost escalation of rural
water scheme was largely solved by elimination of the rural roads component,
which became possible as a result of its financing by the local communities.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeidah Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction has been substantially completed. Transfer of the
existing water system assets from the Port Authority has been effected.
Training of operational personnel for the sewerage collection and treatment
element has not proceeded apace.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of
February 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
All construction and equipping of project institutions is com-
plete and all twelve are operational. Technical assistance and staffing
needs have been met by the appointment of expatriates from Arab countries.
Progress in the utilization of the Basic Training Scheme is relatively slow.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of all project components has been completed; the
grain silo at Hodeidah and the bakeries at Sana'a and Taiz are in opera-
tion. Cost overruns on construction are being met by the Saudi Fund for
Development and the YAR Government. The training program is underway and
technical assistance is also continuing.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project scope was reduced without chang-
ing the project concept. One dairy farm has been completed, but the live-
stock fattening farm is facing some problems in the supply of irrigation
water. The other physical works, although progressing reasonably well at



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughterhouses, meat
markets, and animal health components, in particular, are achieving their
aims, and the livestock fattening, dairy production, and village develop-
ment components will provide valuable research information and development
experience for the livestock sector in YAR. Some positions in the project
implementation unit are vacant and shortage of counterpart staff is
continuing.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the
water and sewerage systems have been or are in the process of being
awarded. Construction of the water system is nearing completion and
implementation of the sewerage component of the project is behind schedule
because of the delayed award of the civil works contract and changed
location of treatment plant site.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Civil works construction was completed in December 1981, about
eleven months behind appraisal schedule. Final estimation of the cost of
the works is in progress to determine final project cost including
contractors claims. The closing date has recently been extended to allow
time for project completion.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Implementation is about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in arranging cofinancing and subsequent difficulties in locating a
suitable training organization. Most of the equipment provided under the
project has arrived and construction contracts for three of the five
weighing stations have been signed.  Implementation of a comprehensive
training program has started. Preparation studies for the overlay program
have been completed or are underway.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima); $10.5
million Credit of May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March 5, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
After an initial slow start, progress on all components relating
to Wadi Rima bas picked up with some of them nearing completion. The
agricultural extension service is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1979; Closing Date:
January 1, 1983
Project implementation is now underway but is currently 19 months
behind appraisal schedule due to delays in finalizing cofinancing
arrangements and in awarding major contracts. The National Electrification
Program has been completed.  YGEC's training center is operating but
experiencing some problems relating to lack of text books. Training abroad
is proceeding but not at an adequate pace to meet YGEC's pressing need for
trained staff.
Cr. No. 880-YAR - Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
After a delay in declaring the credit effective and selecting
project consultants for engineering work, implementation is now underway
and the engineering consultants' inception report is expected shortly.
Farm management consultants have been selected and their contract is under
consideration by Government. Training of extension agents has started and
assignments in the project area are being made. A project manager has been
appointed and procurement of equipment for agricultural services has been
initiated.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1986
Civil works equipment procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
One project institution is already operational; the remaining three project
institutions will be completed shortly. The implementation of technical
assistance has been slow and the Ministry of Education has been requested
to submit a training program to utilize the funds allocated for this
component.
Cr. No. 950-YAR - Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project; t12.0
p       million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date:  January 13, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Tardy preparation of the hydrological study and tender documents
together with slippage of the well drilling program have delayed the water
component. Drilling is nearing completion in Ibb and will recommence in
Dhamar in April 1982. Bids for civil works are being evaluated and
contract awards are expected shortly.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Cr. No. 978-YAR - Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of April 21, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
After initial delays in declaring the credit effective, contracts
for the construction of irrigation structures have now been awarded and the
work started.  The forestry expert and the sand dune stabilization expert
have been appointed and about 800 ha of dunes have been selected for
afforestation. TDA nominations for the expatriate staff required for the
Rural Development Program have been approved by IDA.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
After initial delays, project implementation has somewhat
improved. A fisheries advisor has been appointed and contract negotiations
for construction of fishing ports and shore facilities are underway.
Vessels for trial fishing and shrimping have been ordered.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project;
T17.0 Million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date:  June 16,
1981; Closing Date; December 31, 1985
Agricultural extension, rural water supply construction and
provision of agricultural credit, started under the First Southern Uplands
project, are expanded to cover most of the provinces of the region. Key
staff have been appointed. Expansion of agricultural extension services
and implementation of additional rural water schemes are progressing on
schedule.
Cr. No. 1102-YAR - Regional Electrification Project; $12.0 million Credit
of May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: December 15, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is underway.  Procurement of materials is
complete and contracts with consultants for detailed engineering and
construction supervision have been signed. The construction and erection
contract has been awarded.
Cr. No. 1122-YAR - Industrial Development Project; $12.0 million Credit of
May 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project implementation is underway. The Director General and
Credit Adviser have been appointed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Cr. No. 1202-YAR Sanaa Urban Development Project; $15.0 million Credit of
February 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1203-YAR Fourth Education Project; $12.0 million Credit of
February 5, 1982; Effectiveness Date:  (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1216-YAR Petroleum and Geothermal Exploration Promotion Project;
$2.0 million Credit of April 9, 1982; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare            Ten months (October
project:                                  1980 to August 1981)
(b)  The agencies which prepared the project: Government and Consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA;          September 1980
(d)  Date of Departure of appraisal mission:  October 10, 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:         April 29, 1982
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:              January 1983
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Effectiveness Conditions
(1) Transfer of land in the Central Highlands to the Agricultural
Research and Development Authority (ARDA) (paragraph 45);
(2) Government establishment of ARDA and the appointment of a director
general and an accountant (paragraphs 51 and 63);
(3)  Appointment of an internationally recruited firm or organization
(paragraph 55); and
(4) Signing of cofinancing agreements (paragraph 60).
B. Measures to be taken by the Government include:
ARDA would commission a mid-term evaluation of the project
activities by the end of the third year of project execution
(paragraph 56).



IBRD 161B1RI
R trE)5fSAY iARI        + 50.   ,,                             4t'                                                                            4t                    MAY 1982
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AR SAJADAYARIA~                                              ADIARA                                                AGRICULTURAL  RESEARCH
SAUD  AAI   rlA ;, ISAUDI ARABIA                                                                                            AND3
Zz----" fj    20  ./'~.                                             DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CENTERS
K       /                 '11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                   DIT~S1  ~IOA
o^   EIHlOPIA2(                                                                                  .0                                          YE fJ7    '   SEG OhA  C EYL-   CEI-E
4  O                                                                            9 __   Aon \4 Z -h Ml
I \  Az 12 dtvah   *Al MSl            $o                                                             1
3                        SA~~~~~~~ANIAA 
;Al AI QJt-   stSha  -:       Ad       n                     _      9/
Jo2dT-u                                                AAAAAA AoO     MA-Ad-                    !0
Al 9AA91191g                   s'Al
)  R  , 8oye el Fqql~~~~~~~.4                            j h   R  XKb horbfAl   
Ad D- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~          -.- SEAIN9D~  E 
Y~ ~ b I              ,)2                                                                  /3 \/
/~~~~~~~~~~~ BAAm At  7z05                                -           mmm9    
I   - f                                      -to-\g-,S pl    PEOPLE'S DEMCCRATIC REDUB.IhAC OF-                                                2    Al  Al   A
.                                 2w20               <    AI T,.beh tA T-,b.1
ETHIOPIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lV A                                                                                                     OIAEE
/~-91Al  -AIYSAISANAA                                          - .
Al M.AAAS', ~~~~~~~AIMAoQIo1
AdDATA  Mo SAA<POLES E.CATC   EDBJCOFYE E
ETHIOPIA ~      ~      IAIA*59A                                 AE
//\/'/'~ ~I "--
/                                             o~~~~~~~~~~UijF  O, ACJ:-5A/
/DJIBOUTi
L ,/'                                                                  'A- AA      *,=ABA.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~    D8AA /t



I
I



40    PAj                          /     _                                            44-                                                                                            4
>rsovr 5yWAI     6 -J                                                                                                            YEMEN   ARAB REPUBL C
IDA-ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
*   44: ::P,N31A  j e                                                                                                                                     P     ,ECITS
I ['E tTI  .          v           S            J          f           e          at               X;             =         S    ==    /   *  Grrrrr Srorege
C ,l=, Cr      '                                                                        .                                                                               F r, Me
7
;~~~~~<                                   :r                                                                   zag%k, 0Sf__~uratlorr
' ,, SA1Df3AH                                          t                                                 X 9 -=-    <3h400  Mrr,-- e-roer
Power St,r, 
--   0   '  's1 = = = ~~~~~~~~~~~~7~                                                                 .F="- 'SL= '===-;   p   rn5m y  e
r  4-                              Woe,~~~D   ep-t
.                                                                         E ,  0   i =, \<  PN n  ,?    , ¢= . =    =   f ;;   EK 'T'-CG  FL&JREQ
!              s              -mr   =,q                 >                                  3 ~~~/                P4 mror Evade
Plo;:                                                                          ,  S= . r r :~  '. 0 t  :  - S04reaara  dsoaN
A rpara
0  1  S    t=   =    , >}5                 0                   - ~ -        Prov nc,aBsr4n4aols
,    ;   ;  t  ; j    ,,y,:  ,    0  ,     L          :   f                       -      Int~~~~~~~~~ loereot arn  Baoundcr es
HA .;t-     ,                                                                                            __ErVAT1O0' ,i-treerr
rfrwaoah                              -                               '               7                                                    S == . p=/ rrf!=<"  307
-L MA HWET                      _                                                      o '
_-   - S sha .,. z - t - = !.~~4-a 
-rCDEIDAH         r                                                    /
- . -Reok >o.o   At 7   d<Y 0   AHAMAR;   -                          -
14-.  A t'  <   5 ' ' .' '_=  .' 9>e= 9   S .e~-                        AL bEIDA
Oa           .,e.j'' 4toRo
-,~MaA  43 r' {~ A;i <Vj2tI/fS'-att   ;tI
: 0 \ . _ SAt. ............. SRP dA AGPtC~~IL LTU 1-E I-L.lS 
r' -  ...                                                                4,.: E                              Esl NAPrsI I 11 IF "S
.       r     -                            ALDCeOt R@aTLE sL PLY WIA El
MosleM   - - - ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ I            "I   -I
'  -   ^,   !V,G deb,,2                                                                       n.E.E'!                 sANA  NVAlElxbUPPL. C g c.WLRPbE     1 ,!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il.A~ el~I I  17
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. acx....... vLu > .... TL FE  .a'
44'    -                                                                                    _ T                                   z



