Document of
The World Bank                              -
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.3767a-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 7, 1982
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$l.00          =  Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.50
YR1 1.00         =  US$0.22
YRIs I Million  =  US$222,222
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)  =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)        =  2.47 acres
I metric ton (ton)   =  2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
YAR      =  Yemen Arab Republic
ACSAD    =  Arab Center for Studies of the Arid Zones and Dry Lands
ARDA     =  Agricultural Research and Development Authority
ARS      =  Agricultural Research Service
AVRDC    =  Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center
CIAT     =  International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CID      =  Consortium for International Development
CIMMYT   =  International Center for Maize and Wheat Improvement
CPO      =  Central Planning Organization
FAO      =  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FFYP     =  First Five-Year Plan
IBRD     =  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICARDA   =  International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas
ICRISAT  =  International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IDA      =  International Development Association
IFAD     =  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA     =  International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
MAF      =  Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NARC     =  National Agricultural Research Council
PIU      =  Physical Implementation Unit
PPAR     =  Project Performance Audit Report
PPF      =  Project Preparation Facility
RCC      =  Research Coordination Committee
SFYP     =  Second Five Year Plan
SIDP     =  Seed Improvement and Development Program
SURDU    =  Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA      =  Tihama Development Authority
UNDP     =  United Nations Development Programme
USAID    =  United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                  Page No.
I.     BACKGROUND .1...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  I
A.  Project Background .I.. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  I
B.  Agricultural Sector  .1.. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  I
II.     AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC .       . . . . . .   8
A. Background.                                                     8
B. Research Activities                   .9
C.  Major Constraints on Research Programs . . . . . . . .        12
D.  Linkage between Research and Extension . . . . . . . .        13
E.  Linkage between Research and Agricultural Education  .        14
III.     THE PROJECT  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
A.  Objectives and Brief Description . . . . . . . . . . .        14
B. Detailed Description .16
C. Cost Estimates .29
D.    Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
E.  Procurement and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . .        33
F. Environmental Impact .34
IV.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        35
A.  Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        35
B. Staffing and Training .36
C.  International Staff  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        37
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        37
E. Accounts and Audit .39
V.     BENEFITS, INSTITUTIONAL IMPACT, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION  .        39
VI.     AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . .41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in October/
November 1981 consisting of Messrs. S. R. Freiberg, M. Ballesteros (Bank/IDA),
and R. Etheredge (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
ANNEXES
1     Phased Summary of Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . .      42
2     Schedule of Estimated Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . .      46
3     Proposed Powers and Responsibilities for Agricultural
and Development Research Authority (ARDA) . . . . . . . .     47
4     Organization Chart, Chart No. 23493  . . . . . . . . . . .      54
5      Implementation Schedule, Chart No. 23492 . . . . . . . . .     55
6     Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File        56
MAPS
IBRD Number 16181
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
3.1  Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     30
3.2    Financing  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
3.3  Estimated Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     34



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A. Project Background
1.01      The Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested the
International Development Association (IDA) to help finance an Agriculltural
Research and Development Project. The project in Phase III would continue
from Phase II of the current United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
project which is executed by the World Bank. The project originated in
discussions during the Tripartite Meeting between Government, IDA and UNDP in
May 1980, and its review report recommended the preparation of a Phase III
project. The following annual Tripartite Meeting in February 1981 recommended
that Government select a consultant firm to prepare a Phase III Agricultural
Research and Development project report to be submitted to Government and IDA
bv August 1981. An IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$250,000 was
made available to YAR for this purpose. This was accomplished on schedule and
was the basis for appraisal by an IDA mission during October/November 1981.
An additional PPF of US$150,000 was made available to YAR in March 1982 to
prepare documents for early tendering of civil works.
1.02      The project aims at building on the experience to date to establish
a viable Yemeni Agricultural Research and Development Organization designed to
solve farmers' problems in the major agroecological regions of the country
with major emphasis in developing the Yemeni human resources in applied
agricultural research technology.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.03      The agricultural sector of YAR has been studied in considerable
detail in three recent reports. 1/ The present section summarizes and updates
the principal findings and conclusions of those reports, highlighting these
sectorial features that bring into focus the context and relevance of the
proposed research project. All quantitative statements are subject to varying
but generally substantial margins of error given the weaknesses of underlying
basic data.
1/ IBRD, Yemen Arab Republic: Agricultural Sector Memorandum, June 26, 1979;
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, Yemen Arab Republic. Review of
Agricultural Project Priorities, October 29, 1980; and ConsultanAts Report
for IBRD/UNDP, Yemen Arab Republic: Agricultural Sector: Performance,
Strategy and Options, November 17, 1981.



Agriculture in the Economy
1.04      The decade of the 1970s witnessed fundamental and rapid changes in
the economic, political and social characteristics of YAR. The key
contributing factors have probably been the massive outflow of labor to
neighboring oil producing countries, mainly to Saudi Arabia and the Gulf
States, and the corresponding inflow of earnings from abroad in the form of
workers' remittances. To place these movements into proper perspective, one
may simply mention that an estimated 40% of the total male labor force is
currently working abroad, and that the value of the home remittances of those
workers is equivalent to some 35% to 40% of the value of all goods and
services domestically produced.
1.05      This tremendous inflow of income earned abroad has induced large
increases in consumption but, significantly, even larger inci-eases ItL private
investment particularly in housing construction. Furthermore, since migration
abroad originated predominantly from rural areas, the inflows of remittances
have been broadly distributed throughout the country resulting in comparable
increases in incomes, living standards and private investment in rural and in
urban areas. This has also resulted in major development in rural areas,
which has significantly affected agriculture: the spontaneous growth of Local
Development Associations (LDAs), at the initiative of the people and largely
financed by them. LDAs have contributed to the opening of rural areas through
construction of roads, apart from building the social infrastructure to
improve living standards.
1.06      The substantial increases in the demand for food and the shift in
demand due to higher incomes have outstripped the short-run response potential
of the domestic agricultural sector and have resulted in sizable increases in
imports. Concurrently, the agricultural labor force has been curtailed by the
strong labor demand, and correspondingly high wages, from other sectors,
particularly by the widespread boom in the construction sector.
1.07      Agriculture remains, nevertheless, the single most important sector
of the YAR economy, emploving about 75% of the resident labor force and
contributing approximately 38% to the country's gross development product
(GDP). Agricultural export earnings, however, have declined sharply and
actually have become negligible in recent years. They declined from US$14
million in 1973/74 to US$3 million in 1978/79, largely as a result of falling
cotton production.
1.08      By contrast, agricultural imports, particularly food, have grown
spectacularly. From US$80 million in 1973/74, food imports rose to US$290
milLion in 1978/79 and an estimated US$540 million in 1980. Food imports
currently account for about 40% of domestic food consumption. The largest
relative increases in imports have occurred in such income-elastic demand
commodities as meats, dairy products, fruit and vegetables. There have also
been, however, substantial increases in imports of food grains, especially
wheat, from 130,000 tons in 1973/74 to about 400,000 tons in 1980.



,tl  :TI wesurce 'ase
Tll  _LJ...
1.09      Land Resources.  The total area of YAR is about 20 million ha, of
which about 1.5 million ha are considered cultivable.  A further 2.0
million ha are classified as marginal agricultural land, cultivated when
rainfall is favorable and grazed otherwise. Some non-agricultural lands, with
Light vegetationi, arc also used as rangelands.
1.10      Much of the country 's productive land, particularly in the Southern
and Central Highlands, is a man-made asset built on a centuries-old system of
terraces, cleverlv designed and solidly executed, that has served to control
erosion, to harvest a maximum of water run-off and to retain rich, deep
soils. The terrace system, however, is increasingly threatened by a lack of
maintenance resulting from labor shortages which has reportedly led to the
abandonment of marginal terraces in certain locations, thus endangering the
entire terrace system on a given slope.  In addition, the use of tractors on
terraces and, perhaps more importantly, the construction of roads without
proper drainage or attention to irreparable terrace damage from displaced
earth and rocks, has led to increased terrace deterioration and erosion.
1.11      Climate and Agroecological Zones.  Climatic conditions vary widely
even among small areas within a regi3n because of the mountainous topography
and the influence of the sea. Precipitation varies from as low as 50 mm in
the Coastal Lowlands and Eastern escarpments to as high as 1,200 mm in the
Southern Uplands. About 85% of the cultivated land depends solely on
rainfall. The remainder is roughly equally divided into areas supplied with
one or more irrigations by spate flood flow and areas irrigated year round by
wells, streams, or springs. Five main agroecological zones may be
characterized as follows;
(a) the Coastal Lowlands (Tihama) that cover a band 400 km long and 30
to 60 km wide along the Red Sea coast with elevations ranging
between sea level and 200 m above. Tropical conditions of high
temperature and humidity prevail. The Tihama comprises five major
wadis and 12 smaller ones which permit cultivation of about 235,000
ha.  Rainfall is scarce (50 mm to 200 mm), and agriculture depends
mainly on use of the flood discharge of the wadis and of underground
water resources. The main crops are sorghum, millet and cotton.
Tobacco, maize, sesame, vegetables and fruit (dates, bananas and
citrus) are also grown. Livestock plays a minor role in this
region, which contains an estimated 10% of the country's population
of cattle, sheep and goats;
(b) the Southern Uplands that lie east of the Tihama with elevations
ranging from 200 m to 1,500 m above sea level. The landscape is
rugged, cut by deep wadis. In the foothills, with higher relative
humidity, sorghum, maize, bananas, papaya, citrus and vegetables
(tomatoes, onions, okra and radishes) predominate. In the middle
heights, temperature and humidity conditions are subtropical. Taiz
at 1,375 m is typical of the area with an average rainfall of
600 mm, and sorghum, qat, coffee, fruit and vegetables are the major



- 4 -
crops. The total cultivable area in the Southern Uplands is about
550,000 ha, mostly on man-made terraces. The region is also an
important livestock producer containing approximately 30% of the
total cattle population of the country and a similar percentage of
sheep and goats;
(c)  the Central Highlands that comprise the middle reaches of the
central mountain range with elevations from 1,500 n above sea level
up to 3,700 m. Rainfall varies considerably; it averages 300 mmi but
ranges up to 1,200 mm in the southern areas. Rainfed cultivation
predominates, but open-well irrigation is increasingly practiced on
the central plains. Wgheat, barley, alfalfa, sorghum, grapes, qat,
coffee, figs, stone fruits and vegetables are the chief crops. The
total cultivable area in this zone is about 600,000 ha. The Central
Highlands are also the main livestock-raising region in YAR with
about 35% of the total of cattle, sheep and goats;
(d) the Northern Highlands that constitute the upper reaches of the
central mountain chain. The climate is semi-arid with annual
rainfall ranging from 200 mm to 400 mm and altitudes that exceed
1,500 m. There are an estimated 130,000 ha of cultivable land in
this region which is mainly devoted to sorghum, wheat and grazing.
The livestock population in this region is estimated at about 15%, of
the country's total; and
(e) the Eastern region that slopes gently towards the desert in the
East. There is very little rainfall, and desert shrubs are the umain
vegetation. Most cultivation, on an estimated 25,000 ha, occurs
along the wadis that flow eastwards from the Highlands towards the
desert. Sorghum and millet are the principal crops. Livestock in.
this region plays only a minor role, about 10% of the total stock of
the country.
Production
1.12      The average annual rate of growth of agricultural production during
the past decade is estimated at 4% with large interannual variations. Even
though agricultural statistics are extremely weak, two major trends in overall
production may be identified: (a) a decline in production of low-value
traditional crops (sorghum and millet) more than offset by substantial growth
in production of higher-value and income-elastic crops (legumes, vegetables,
potatoes and fruit); and (b) a dramatic decline in the production of export
crops, especially cotton.
1.13      Cereal Grains.  Sorghum and millet are the main crops grown mairnl
in the Southern Uplands (about 40% of the total), in the Central Highlands
(32%), and in the Tihama (16%). Wheat is rapidly replacing sorghum as the
main food grain in the diet; the area planted increased from 30,000 ha in
1971/72 to 83,000 ha in 1973/74, but it has fallen back (1980) to about
65,000 ha.  Wheat yields appear stationary at abouc I :cn/U ,.o
areas where the improved variety, Sonalika, is yielding about 1lo  ton/ha.  The



area planted to maize has increased from 10,000 ha in 1971/72 to 30,000 ha in
1979/80, mainly in irrigated areas in the Tihama. Maize yields average 1.5
ton/ha.
1.14      Other Food Crops.  Legumes, fruit and vegetables have been the main
contributors to the recent growth in crop production. Between 1971/72 and
1979/80, production of legumes increased from 60,000 ton to 80,000 ton,
vegetables from 137,000 ton to 254,000 ton, potatoes from 58,000 ton to
127,000 ton, and fruit (including grapes and dates) from 68,000 ton to
137,000 ton. The Southern Uplands again rank first in production of these
crops with 36% of total legume and vegetable production and 45% of fruit
production. The Central Highlands rank second with 30% and 35%, respectively,
followed by the Tihama where 28% of the legumes and vegetables and 15% of the
fruit are grown.
1.15      Qat.  An assessment of agricultural production in YAR would be
incomplete without considering qat, a mildly narcotic plant that has become
the most important cash crop in the country. Like coffee or tobacco, it has
no nutritional value but is widely consumed by the population who enjoy its
stimulating and relaxing properties, usually in the context of social
gatherings. High prices and low production cost have made qat the! most
profitable crop in YAR, and production has increased rapidly, mainly in the
Southern Uplands and Central Highlands, supported by an extremely efficient
marketing organization. Although there are no official estimates of
production, it is generally assumed that its market value exceeds by far that
of any other cash crop in YAR. This suggests that agricultural incomes,
including those derived from qat, are substantially higher than shown in the
national accounts.
1.16      Export Crops.  Cotton and coffee were the two principal exports of
YAR. The rise in labor costs and the higher returns from alternative
irrigated crops resulted in a drop in cotton production from 27,000 ton in
1974/75 to about 3,000 ton in 1979/80. Government has recently adlopted a
Cotton Promotion Policy, consisting basically in better producer prices and
subsidized inputs, aimed at eliciting sufficient production to supply domestic
ginneries and mills.  Coffee production has failed to make any headway against
the more lucrative qat production and has remained stationary at about 3,500
ton per year during the past decade.
1.17      Livestock.  Available statistics show practically no increase in
livestock production except for poultry products. There are an estimated
880,000 head of cattle and 3.7 million sheep and goats in the country. Crop
by-products are used for cattle and sheep feeding although the main source of
feed for sheep and goats is the country's extensive, if degraded, rangeland.
Farm Technology
1.18      Although traditional farm techniques predominate in YAR, there has
been a significant increase in the use of pesticides over the past: decade;
originally applied only to cotton, farmers are now responding to extension
service advice in the context of specific development projects, principally in



-6-
the Tihama and Southern Uplands.  Farmers have also demonstrated a strong
interest in planting improved varieties of crops where these have become
available, as in the case of wheat and potatoes in the Highlands.
1.19      The most far-reaching change in farming methods, however, consists
in the introduction of tractors in response to labor scarcity. It is
estimated that in 1979 some 200,000 ha (15% of the total cultivated area) were
plowed with tractors, the number of which had grown to about 5,000 from
practically nil at the beginning of the decade. Tractors, however, tend to be
overpowered and not properly utilized often resulting in excessive costs and
damage to soils and terrace walls.
Institutional Setting
1.20      One of the major achievements of the past decade has been the
development of institutions for agricultural and rural development.
Institutional growth was initiated within regional project implementation
agencies, and these still command most of the agricultural expertise in the
country. The main organizations are the Tihama Development Authority (TDA)
and the Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit (SURDU) both implementing
IDA-supported projects.
1.21      The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF), to which most
decentralized units are attached, is the central element in the institutional
structure, and it is progressively assuming a dominant role in the planning of
agricultural development programs. It consists of six central Directorates
(Planning and Statistics, Agricultural Services, Livestock, Irrigation,
Fisheries, and Finance and Administration) and four regional directorates. A
group of expatriate experts in 10 major areas has been providing institutional
support to MAF since 1973 under a UNDP project for which the Bank is the
implementing agency.
1.22      Relatively low salaries and unattractive working conditions have
precluded MAF from attracting and retaining any significant number of
professionals from the extremely limited pool of trained local manpower. This
pervasive lack of professionals in YAR, as in many other developing countries,
constitutes the major constraint on the development of national institutions
to promote agricultural development.
Government Plans and Policies
1.23      A First Five-Year Plan (FFYP) (1976/77-1981) was initiated in 1977.
The plan called for expenditures in support of agriculture of YRls 2.6 billion
(14% of total investment envisaged) of which YRls 1.4 billion would be in the
public sector. Public investments would consist of irrigation projects (50%
of the total), livestock development (18%), crop research and training (14%),
rural development (11%), fisheries (6%) and forestry (1%).
1.24      The overall goal of the FFYP was to promote self-sufficiency in food
production within the general framework of a 5.5% annual rate of increase of
agricultural production. High priority was assigned to projects in areas with



-7
good agricultural potential, mainly the Tihama and Southern and Central
HighLands, and to research and manpower training.
1.25      An assessment of achievements under the FFYP has been carried out in
conjunction with the preparations of the Second Five Year Plan (SFY1?). A
number of major development projects were completed or nearing comp'Letion
(Wadi Zabid Development, Southern Uplands Rural Integrated Development I, and
Livestock Processing and Credit), numerous feasibility investigations were
completed, a large cadre was given training abroad, an Agricultural Credit
Bank was established and a vast lending program implemented far beyond that
anticipated in the plan, new extension services were created, a central
research station became a reality, and development centers were established in
Rada, Dhamar and Amran. The cost envisaged in the FFYP, the subsequent
estimated project cost and expenditures estimated through December 31, 1981
are sumnmarized below:
Estimated                    % of
Estimated    Project    Expenditures   Project
Class of Project         No.   Plan Cost      Cost        to 12/31/81    Cost
-(YR--              S'000)    -    --
Plant Production            14       135,425     206,382       138,259        67.0
Rural Development            6       190,610     570,690       177,058        31.0
Livestock Production         4       161,895     209,555       205,583        98.1
Land & Water Resources       5        84,800      100,172      160,194       159.9
Fisheries                    7        94,500     139,000         8,288         6.0
Support to MAF               2        23,551      42,329        36,940        87.3
Mechanization                1        11,282       15,766        9,720        61.7
Tihama Development           3       462,300     108,400       192,197       177.3
Total             42    1,164,363   1,392,294        928,239,      66.7
1.26      The expenditures to date on all plant production projectsi are
considerably less than the estimated project cost.  Expenditures on two of the
planned rural integrated development projects were as planned, with virtually
nothing spent on such projects planned for Khowlan, Hajjah and Mahweit.
Expenditures on all four livestock production projects were on target.
Expenditures were made only on planning for the seven proposed fisheries
projects. Expenditures on all the implemented land and water projects far
exceeded the planned costs due principally to the high rate of inflation
during the past five years.
1.27      It can be concluded that implementation on all of the projects in
the plan have had only minimal beneficial impact on output in the agricultural
sector thus far. This should have been expected since most of the projects
were not designed to have immediate impact on production. Data are not
available to provide any meaningful analysis of the results achieved for the
separate projects. The growth or lack of growth in the sector has been a
consequence of variations in rainfall and the activities of the private
sector, not the public sector investments. The full effect of the public
sector investments will be realized only over a long period.



- 8 -
1.28      The SFYP is currently being prepared.  The overall strategy and
approach followed in the first would still appear largely valid for the
second. In addition, the plan is expected to include a broader geographical
dispersion of projects, including the Eastern slopes and Northern Highlands,
aimed at cementing national unity as well as increasing agricultural
production and incomes.
IDA Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
1.29      IDA's strategy for agricultural sector assistance in YAR is
four-pronged: (i) support to development projects in the main areas of the
country with high production potential; (ii) assistance in the development of
improved technological inputs and in the provision of financial means for the
farmers to purchase and apply those inputs; (iii) institution building; and
(iv) support to rural development projects, currently being identified and
prepared, in areas of priority to Government on grounds of high population
density or on considerations of national cohesiveness. To date, IDA has
committed about US$123 million to help finance agricultural projects broadly
falling within the fLirst three areas of its overall strategy.
1.30      The first IDA-assisted agricultural project was Tihama Development I
(Wadi Zabid) in 1973 co-financed with the Kuwait Fund. It was completed in
December 1979, only six months behind schedule, with total IDA credits of
US$21.2 million and Kuwait Fund loans of US$16 million. The second project
(1976) was Southern Uplands Rural Development Project I (SURDP I) assisted
with an IDA credit of US$10 million and co-financed with US$l0 million from
the Abu Dhabi Fund. This project, which is nearing completion, is generally
acknowledged as having been successful in achieving its broad objectives of
increasing rainfed cereal production and improving rural infrastructure,
particularly water supplies.  The project's greatest impact has been through
extension, credit and input distribution programs, and it has been follcwed up
by SURDP II in 1981.
1.31      Other IDA-assisted agricultural projects under way in YAR include
Tihamas II (Wadi Rima I, FY78), III (Wadi Mawr, FY79) and IV (Wadi Rima II,
FY80); Grain Storage and Processing (FY76); Livestock Credit and Processing
(FY77); and Fisheries I (FY80), all of which are making progress usually after
having experienced start-up problems due to financial or managerial problems
of varying degrees of severity. Government's contribution to these
agricultural projects has been continuously increasing as a share of total
cost. The genesis and IDA involvement in agricultural research projects and
activities in YAR are analyzed separately (paras 2.01-2.25).
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A. Background
2.01      Prior to 1973, agricultural research in YAR was prat4 callv
nonexistent. In 1973, UNDP supported a project executed by the Food and



- 9 -
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) called "Central
Agricultural Research and Training Organization, Taiz (YEM/73/010)." It
established an Agricultural Research Station at Taiz and initiated research on
key crops in the Southern Uplands region. It was followed in 1974 by a
research component in the Tropical Lowlands under IDA's first agricultural
credit in YAR (Tihama I Project). Subsequently, there has been some research
carried out with bilateral assistance.
2.02      Foreign assistance has provided the bulk of the financing and
manpower for planning and research in YAR to date. Although no breakdown by
type of project is available on the first three-year plan, YRls 73 million
were spent on agricultural development including research activities. The
draft SFYP calls for YRls 84 million to be spent on "Agriculture Services and
Research."
B. Research Activities
Southern Uplands - Agricultural Research Service (ARS)
2.03      In 1979, UNDP initiated Phase II of its Agricultural Research
Project but now with IDA as executing agency which in turn subcontracted to
FAO for the specialists, UN volunteers and equipment. Only the project
manager was on a direct-hire basis with IDA. Under Phase II of the
Agricultural Research Project, ARS had as its objectives to:  (i) conduct a
research program geared toward the agricultural problems of the Southern
Uplands; (ii) advise MAF on developing a national research program; (iii)
provide facilities, equipment and expatriate assistance for a study of the
country's various research programs; and (iv) provide for training of the
necessary extension agents required under the Southern Uplands Rural
Development Projects I and II (Credits 545-YAR and 1067-YAR).
2.04      ARS presently manages two small research stations, one art Ausseifera
in Taiz and one in Ibb. ARS administrative headquarters is also at
Ausseifera, as are the central laboratory and the only sizable agricultural
library in the country. Most of the FAO specialists have their headquarters
in Taiz. Research at the Ibb station and experimental plots in rented
farmers' fields in the Central Highlands and Southern Uplands are supervised
from Taiz. The research farm at Ausseifera has 16 ha of land whicln were
obtained in 1974 during Phase I of the project. The station is being
surrounded by the town. Some of the land is saline, and parts of the farm are
being used by private farmers for production. The research station at Ibb has
8 ha. Its soils have poor drainage conditions, and part of it is subject to a
high flood hazard. Both research farms are atypical of the Taiz and Ibb
areas. However, they were the only government lands available when Phase I of
the Project was started, and there was no provision in the UNDP Project for
the purchase of suitable representative agricultural land. In the event that
ARS establishes its Headquarters in the Central Highlands, Credit 1067-YAR
provides for 23 houses and two dormitories to attract and retain permanent
staff in the amount of US$0.7 million local and US$1.0 million foreign
exchange.



- 10 -
2.05      ARS was to have a coordinating role in research.  However, this role
is loosely defined, and in practice the main coordination is between ARS and
TDA. The specialists based in Taiz advise and supervise research being
carried out in the Tropical Lowlands under TDA. Supervision, budget and labor
are provided by TDA, and the role of the ARS specialists is to help design and
implement experiments with the scientists at TDA. In addition, research is
being carried out at a number of more or less independent research stations as
part of rural development or extension projects financed and managed under
bilateral assistance programs.
2.06      Tropical Lowlands - Tihama.  TDA has a Research Department and a
Director of Research who reports directly to the Chairman of TDA. Research is
mainly carried out at Zabid and Surdud. The Zabid station was initially
developed and financed under the Tihama I Project and following closure of
this project is being financed by TDA.  Financing for further development of
the Surdud research farm was provided for under the Tihama III Project (IDA
Credit 880-YAR and IFAD-13). The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) under this project is providing foreign exchange for
exDerts (US$0.81 million), buildings and laboratory (US$0.45 million),
furniture and laboratory equipment (US$0.18 million), transportation equipment
(US$0.11 million) and farm equipment (US$0.13 million).
2.07      Research at Zabid has resulted in selection and propagation of
several improved varieties of maize, sorghum and millet, and there has been a
successful extension training program. Fifty hectares of land for the new
research farm at Surdud have been identified, and research trials are under
way.
2.08      TDA also operates the Gumeisha farm which includes about 60 ha
devoted to diversified crops and seed multiplication. The Al Jaruba farm is
conducting research on tropical and subtropical fruits such as citrus, mangos
and bananas. This project is supported by the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID).
2.09      Central Highlands Research.  British technical assistance has
recently extended its program of agricultural and forestry research at Risabah
near Mabar. Research is being conducted on about 32 ha of rented land, andl
the project plans are for six specialists in agronomy, forestry, animal
nutrition, economics and extension. During the next four years, plans are for
applied field research on wheat, fodder crops, maize, barley, sesame and
vegetables. Eight kilometers of fencing are being imported for range trials,
and a base forest nursery is being established. This project is being
executed under a four-year, government-to-government agreement and is under
the supervision of the provincial Agricultural Officer in Dhamar who is also
the co-manager of the project.
2.10      Two other components of British technical assistance involve a
research component. The animal health project has been investigating
livestock disease problems and has set up a diagnostic laboratory in Sanaa.
Regional offices exist at Hodeidah, Taiz and Dhamar. Under the British-
supported agricultural engineering project, which is based in Taiz, field



trLals are conducted to test and select farm equipment best suited to the
co unIL try.
2.11      Side by side with the British project at Risabah, variety,
fertilizer and other trials on potatoes are being conducted as part of the
Dutch Rural Development Project in the Al Beyda Governorate.
2.12      Sanaa and Northern Highlands Research.  In the Sanaa area, USAID
recently completed a research program consisting of varietal trialEs on sorghum
and millet at the Bir Al Quhum farm and has ongoing field trials at: the Bir Al
Shief farm for deciduous fruit trees. The Federal Republic of Germany is
conducting experimental trials to promote fertilizer and pesticide use at the
Shoub research farm in Sanaa. In Amran, field trials have been conducted on
wheat and vegetables as part of a rural development extension project.
2.13      At El Butna, near Hoth, experts from the People's Republic of China
are establishing another research farm with field trials on cereals and other
crops. This project is financed by MAF.
Uoming P
2.14      Apart from the proposed Phase III of the Agricultural Research
Program, several agencies are reportedly planning research activities, some as
part of rural development projects. IFAD is discussing plans for funding a
research station in Mahweet. The Japanese are discussing plans for a similar
station in Hajjah. A project, identified by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program, is under preparation for funding in the Wadi Jawf area that would
include a research and extension farm. Government has plans for a research
station in Sadaa. Both USAID and the U.S. Consortium for International
Development (CID) are planning to obtain land near the airport in Sanaa for
further research on cereals and other crops.
Research Coordination
2.15      Existing and planned research sites cover most ecological areas of
the country. However, most of the bilateral research being conducted is
oriented towards local priorities. ARS, in theory, is responsible for
national policy and priorities. In practice, there is little formal
communication between ARS and researchers working on similar problems or
commodities. An effort has been made by ARS to establish an informal research
council which would include representation from all the bilateral donors. It
meets on a monthly basis and is attended by representatives from the Research
Division of TDA, but there has been little success in coordinating research
efforts of other agencies.
International Research Centers
2.16      Increased contact has occurred in the last few years between the
research groups in the Southern Uplands and the Tropical Lowlands with some of
the international research centers. This is particularly true with the
International Center for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA),



- 12 -
International Center for Maize and Wheat improvement (CIMMYT) and
International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT).
Varietal testing of germ plasm from these centers for wheat, sorghum, millet,
maize and legumes is under way and would be expanded in Phase III. A few of
the staff have also visited or received training at these centers, and th:is
also would be continued and expanded, especially at ICARDA.
Research Results
2.17      Despite the short life of research activities in YAR, results are
already being applied by farmers. A major achievement of the ARS project has
been the selection and distribution of a number of improved crop varieties and
orienting research in Phase II from a discipline to a commodity-oriented
basis. Some of the major achievements include the following; (i) improved
varieties in farmers' fields of maize (Khumaltar), reaching 5 tons/ha, and
wheat (Sonalika), attaining 2 tons/ha, were selected, distributed and readily
accepted by the farmers; (ii) improved vegetable seeds were selected and
distributed; (iii) in Zabid, new improved varieties of sorghum were introduced
from the Sudan and Egypt; (iv) two new varieties of maize (Tihama Composites
I and 2) were distributed to farmers as were several imported varieties of
tomatoes, watermelons, eggplant and onions (50 tons/ha); (v) a new cotton
variety (Coker 310) and a sunflower composite (Shamus Tihama) were released;
and (vi) three new varieties of potatoes, averaging 25 tons/ha, were selected
and released under the Dutch-financed seed potato project in the Central
Highlands.
C. Major Constraints on Research Programs
2.18      The major constraints on the research program are:
(a) a lack of qualified Yemeni counterparts;
(b) a lack of suitable research farms or facilities;
(c) the need for additional operational funds; and
(d) a lack of research coordination.
2.19      There is a severe lack of Yemeni counterparts for ARS and other
research projects although ARS presently has 15 counterparts (most with B.s.
degrees) and six Yemenis are presently being trained abroad for advanced
degrees. Expatriate experts manage and supervise almost all of the research
being done. The government salary structure within MAF makes it unattractive
for Yemeni graduates to join or remain at ARS. Under the project (Phase III),
top priority needs to be given to recruiting existing Yemeni graduates with
suitable training, providing additional training abroad and establishing a
salary scale that will make working in research competitive with other
occupations and more attractive relative to the private sector. The Research
Service needs to be structured to attract competent Yemeni scientists by
providing opportunities for advancement and job satisfaction within the
Service.



- 13 -
2.20      Apart from the farms in Zabid and Surdud in the Tihama, there are no
suitable sites presently available to Government for the other agroecological
zones. Research for the Southern Uplands needs to be relocated from the
present farms in Taiz and Ibb. There is no research farm for the Central
Highlands, and present research being conducted under short-term agreements
with bilateral donors, while significant, will not satisfy long-term research
needs. The development projects in the Northern Highlands and Eastern area
will require research stations and experimental farms.
2.21      Additional operating funds are needed for ongoing programs in the
field. There is a need for additional labor and field supervisory assistance
to maximize the effectiveness of the research staff. Part of the funds need
to be budgeted on a commodity basis with the research staff having control
over these funds in order to execute the programs efficiently and to provide a
degree of flexibility needed for successful research programs. Funds are also
necessary for research on mixed farming systems.
2.22      Lack of coordination of research among ARS, TDA and the bilateral
donors has led to duplication and waste of limited resources. The National
Research Council, established as an advisory body within MAF, has
responsibility for research coordination on a national basis. It has never
met. Moreover, since it is only advisory, with no power to implement its
recommendations, and has no financial control, it is unlikely to be able to
coordinate and plan-research priorities.
D. Linkage between Research and Extension
2.23      There is no national extension service in YAR.  Extension activity
has been mainly implemented in association with irrigation and rural
development projects financed by IDA and co-financiers including the Kuwait
Fund, IFAD, the Swiss Government and the Abu Dhabi Fund plus an FAO-executed
extension project in the Tihama financed by the Netherlands. The result is a
large concentration of extension staff in the Tihama and Southern Uplands, the
areas where the greatest potential for increasing production exists.
2.24      The research farms at Taiz and Zabid are used as trainirLg centers
for the extension agents. This has led to close but informal research/
extension links. The extension agents are posted to different extension
centers throughout the project areas. Despite the training programs, the
educational level of most extension agents remains low. Tnis limits the
extent of the innovations they can introduce. Logistical problems are also a
major factor in effectiveness. Low salaries, lack of transportation, isolated
farm communities, lack of equipment, quick turnover and a limited flow of
technological recommendations all make the extensionist's work dif-ficult.
Despite the weakness of extension, research has not been undermined since the
research staff have conducted verification trials in farmers' fields of
improved varieties, and technology packages have then been made available to
farmers and to extension agents.



-14 -
2.25      The Project Performance Report (PPAR) for the Tihama Development:
Project I, Credit 376-YAR, states that introduction of new technology through
agricultural research and extension for irrigated crops in the Wadi Zabid
region of the Tropical Lowlands was readily accepted by farmers despite a well
entrenched traditional sociopolitical environment. Part of the success of the
extension service, according to the PPAR, was attributed to the results of
agricultural research conducted in the project area. These findings, plus
those of ARS in the Southern Uplands, suggest that technology packages can be
developed by agricultural research and through extension accepted by farmers
in rainfed as well as irrigated areas within the framework of YAR's
traditional society.
E. Linkage between Research and Agricultural Education
2.26      There is no College of Agriculture in YAR at the present time.
However, Government is studying the feasibility of establishing a Faculty of
Agriculture by 1985. Thus, for the time being the agricultural staff
requirements for research, MAF, and other authorities and projects must come
from Yemenis trained abroad. Since 1974, approximately 655 students have been
sent abroad for B.S. degrees in agriculture and 65 in veterinary science.
Many of these have found it more remunerative to work outside YAR or in other
sectors of the economy. Only a handful have returned to work for MAF despite
a large requirement which will not be met for some time to come. An
agricultural secondary school is in operation at Ebb. A similar school is
ready for operation at Surdud, and one is also planned for Sanaa. The
training program for extension agents at Taiz and Zabid is geared toward
students who have completed six grades of primary education. The 9- to
11-month training courses in the research stations concentrate primarily on an
extension approach to increase production by subsistence crops by simple
innovations. With the new development projects planned for the Northern
Highlands and the Eastern region, there is likely to be a continued shortage
of adequately trained professional extension agents.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Brief Description
3.01      The project would be Phase III of a long-term program to develop a
viable Yemeni Agricultural Research and Development Organization for solving
farmers' problems and for evaluating technology transfer in the five major
agroecological regions of YAR. It would stress developing the Yemeni human
resources in applied agricultural research technology. The project would
focus on the three most important agricultural areas of the five regions of
YAR. Expansion of the research network into the two remaining agroecological
regions, Northern Highlands and Eastern, would be delayed to a Phase IV
project. The project would also expand the extension network in the CentraL
Highlands.



- 15 -
3.02      The project will help increase the capabilities of Yemeni research
staff and improve physical facilities to expand the national research program
over a five-year period with funds in addition to those provided in IDA Credit
1067-YAR and IFAD-13 (paras 2.04 and 2.06). The objectives of the project
would be to (i) establish an organization to manage the present diffuse and
uncoordinated research programs to be known as the Agricultural Research and
Development Authority (ARDA), (ii) increase adaptive research, (iii) establish
a system for the permanent financing of adaptive research, (iv) extend
adaptive research and extension to a third important agroecological region,
and (v) train and provide incentives for nationals. Specifically, the project
will provide for;
Development Program
(a) civil works and physical development for a combined Central Support
Services and regional research center in the Central Highlands and a
regional research center in the Tropical Lowlands including offices,
laboratories, ancillary buildings and housing;
(b) civil works for two extension supervision centers and nine extension
centers in the Central Highlands;
(c) vehicles and farm equipment including four-wheel drive utility
vehicles, pickups and farm tractors;
(d) general furniture and equipment for furnishing offices and housing;
(e) laboratory furniture and equipment;
(f) library and documentation service for a central library;
(g) research farm development for the Central Highlands and Tropical
Lowlands regional research centers including irrigation and access
roads;
Technical Assistance
(h) international staff of 50 man-years plus 20 man-months of short-term
staff;
(i) fellowships for graduate-degree training for 23 M.S. degrees and
9 Ph.D. degrees plus short-term training;
(j) other technical assistance for establishing and maintaining a
Physical Implementation Unit (PIU); and
Incremental Operating Expenses
(k) incremental costs for additional Yemeni staff, increased
compensation and increased operating cost.



- 16 -
B. Detailed Description
Development Program
Civil Works and Physical Development
3.03      General Scope.  The project envisages development of three regional
research centers, one in the Central Highlands, about 11 km north of Dhamar,
one in the Tropical Lowlands region at Surdud farm, and one in the Southern
Uplands region at Taiz. Additionally, at the Central Highlands regional
research center, the overall research effort would be coordinated and
supported by a Central Support Services unit consisting of the Directorate of
ARDA and supporting laboratory facilities. Extension facilities will also be
constructed in the Central Highlands in the Dhamar and Mabar areas. Details
of physical works may be noted in the Project File (Annex 6, C.1).
3.04      Ancillary facilities such as warehouses and stores, vehicle storage
and repair, glasshouses, and screenhouses would be constructed where needed to
support applied agricultural research programs. Staff housing would be
constructed as an incentive to attract and retain staff to work at the Central
Highlands and Tropical Lowlands regional research centers. In connection with
the housing complex, recreational facilities would also be developed.
3.05      ARDA Directorate and Central Highlands Regional Research Center.
The project envisages construction of a main building of about 3,030 mL of
space, costing about US$1.7 million, of which 1,830 m2 would house the
Directorate of ARDA and Central Support Services of offices and laboratories
for soil, water and plant analyses as well as plant protection. The
facilities would accommodate a staff of about 66 including the Director
General and his two deputies. The building would also house the offices and
laboratories of the Central Highlands regional research center (about
1,350 m2) with a staff of about 47 persons.
3.06      Regional libraries would be supported by a Library and Documentation
Center located in the Central Highlands. Additionally, regional research
centers would be supported by a centralized Instrument Repair and Maintenance
unit located in the Central Highlands. Only the most sophisticated equipment
would require special attention from equipment manufacturers.
3.07      Ancillary buildings would primarily consist of herbicide and
pesticide storage and preparation area, vehicle storage buildings, slatted
nursery area, glasshouses and screenhouses for plant protection. Vehlcle
repair would be carried out in the shops of the Central Highlands regional
research center.
3.08      For the Directorate of ARDA and Central Support Services in the
Central Highlands, four detached three-bedroom houses and 12 detached
two-bedroom houses would be constructed to accommodate 75% of the Ph.D and
M.S. staff plus 25% of the B.S. staff.  The remainder of the scieutir-c stafi 
plus one-half of the technical staff, would be accommodated in efficiency



- 17 -
apartments. Twenty-four two-bedroom efficiencies and 9 single-bedroom
efficiencies would be built for a total of 49 dwelling units totaling about
3,600 m2 and costing about US$l.7 million and would be funded by IDA Credit
1067-YAR (para 2.04). For the regional research center in the Central
Highlands, the project would construct and furnish 3 three-bedroom detached
houses, 9 two-bedroom detached houses, 18 two-bedroom efficiency apartments
and 7 single-bedroom efficiency apartments. About 2,700 m2 of housing are
proposed for a total of 37 dwelling units and costing US$l.4 million.
3.09      It is estimated that site development would be about US$1.0
million. From a standpoint of costs of operation and maintenance, a clear
delineation will be made between physical facilities belonging to Central
Support Services and those of the Central Highlands regional research center.
3.10      The entire research station would be enclosed with a smooth wire
fence as protection from open-range cattle grazing. Electricity would be
brought in from the high-tension line near the Sanaa/Taiz highway as soon as
this line is put into operation (about 1983). An electrical generator would
be purchased and installed to ensure emergency power in the event of failure
in the main distribution system. One or more tube wells would be developed to
obtain adequate water for both human consumption and for agricultural uses.
Sewerage would be completely treated by aeration. In all probability
communications with other research centers would continue to be by radio until
such time as reliable telecommunications would be developed for the overall
country.
3.11      Central Highlands - Extension Facilities.  Extension facilities
presently do not exist north of Yarim in the Central Highlands.  The project
provides for the construction of two extension supervision centers (each of
750 m2), one adjacent to ARDA headquarters and Central Highlands regional
research center, and another near Mabar. In addition, nine extension centers
(each of 75 m2) would be constructed in the Dhamar and Mabar areas, These
extension facilities, costing about US$0.8 million, would be merged with the
extension services to be developed under the proposed Intermontane project
presently scheduled to be appraised in 1983.
3.12      Tropical Lowlands Regional Research Center.  A principal laboratory
and office building of about 1,340 mn would be constructed at this regional
research center to accommodate a staff of about 56 persons costing about
US$0.7 million. The laboratories and offices, as well as all ancillary
buildings and housing, would be located in the general area of the Technical
Training School at Surdud farm. Research would continue to be carried out
about 2 km away on property presently belonging to Surdud farm, a part of
TDA. As at other regional research centers, library facilities would be
minimal since the main library support would be provided by the Central
Support Services in the Central Highlands.
3.13      Ancillary buildings would consist of warehouse and storage
facilities, vehicle storage, pesticide and herbicide preparation and storage
areas, slatted nursery areas and a moderate amount of screenhouse area.
Maintenance and repair of research farming equipment and vehicles would be
contracted to TDA's Surdud farm.



- 18 -
3.14      The project envisages construction of 3 three-bedroom and 10
two-bedroom detached houses, as well as 22 two-bedroom and 8 single-bedroom
efficiency apartments, to house the staff. About 3,080 m2 would be built
for a total of 43 dwelling units costing about US$1.1 million.
3.15      Infrastructure exists at this regional research center and would
require only minimal modifications and extensions to support this project.
Irrigation is already installed and electrical power is available. Roadwork
would be primarily an improvement of existing roads. Telecommunications with
other regional research centers would be by radio as is now the case. Thie
plot area in which research would continue to be carried out would be leveled
and made suitable for irrigation with adequate drainage to eliminate existing
low spots and subsequent damage to experimental plots by excess standing water.
3.16      Vehicles and Farm Equipment.  Vehicles proposed to be purchased
under this project would be primarily four-wheel drive utility vehicles,
pickups, etc.  Only five sedans are envisaged as a part of project costs.
Generally, quantities of vehicles proposed would be considered sufficient to
allow for a modest number of replacements during the life of the Project.
Spare parts for both vehicles and farm equipment would be purchased to
facilitate maintenance. An amount totaling 20% of the cost of vehicles and
farm equipment has been included in the project cost for spare parts. The
Southern Uplands regional research center is considered to be well supplied
with vehicles and farm equipment at the present time, and, therefore, a
reduced number of units would be purchased at this location as a part of this
project.
3.17      Two types of tractors would be purchased.  A majority of the units
would be 60-65 horsepower (HP) models with only a few smaller models (30-35
HP) to be purchased for specific small-plot operations, mainly in the Southern
Uplands. An amount of YRls 200,000 (US$45,000) has been included in the
Central Highlands regional research station to purchase specialized equipment
for forestry research.
3.18      General Furniture and Equipment.  General furniture and equipment:
are estimated to cost YRls 2.79 million and would include office furnishing
and equipment as well as basic furnishing for the housing units and
recreational facilities. Some office and residential furniture is
manufactured in YAR although not on a large scale. It is estimated that at
least 50% of the furniture and equipment for office and housing would need to
be imported.
3.19      Laboratory Furniture and Equipment.  It is envisaged that all
laboratory equipment and furniture would be imported. As soon as an
architectural and engineering firm has been selected, an accurate estimate of
laboratory workbenches would be made and included in the ARDA investment plan
along with a detailed list of scientific equipment. Due to the severe termite
problem in the Southern Uplands and Tropical Lowlands regions, laboratory
furniture would be either metal or specially treated wood which would be
resistant to damage by termites.



3* 10     Library and Documentationi 3ervice. Development of a central Library
and DWi-it4tion Srviae  to support agricultural research in YAR would
inacude subscriptiolos to about 25 scientific journals plus back issues of
these journals up to 10 yearo ilf possible. Also about 3,000 volumes to 5,000
volumes of sci.enttfic book, would be purchased and stored at Central Support
Service  in the Central Highlands.  Facilities and equipment for microfilm and
microfiche, as well as copying machines and equipment for book repair, would
be provided,  It ios assumed that 100% of the Library and Documentation Service
component of the project would be imported.
3,21      Research Farm Development. ReFsearch farm improvement would be
carried out only at the Central Highlands regional research center and the
Tropical Lowlands regional research center. No farm development has been
anticipated for the Southern Uplands regional research center at this time.
Research farm development would include layout and preparation of research
plots, drainage if necessary, any permanent facilities for supply and
diatribution of irrigation water, and access roads into plots and fields.
Bridges and culverts, where required, would be constructed.
3.22      Land.  Government owns 126 ha of land 11 km north of Dhamar which is
now being developed as a livestock and range improvement center. Government
plans to transfer at least 44 ha of this land to ARDA to establish the Central
Highlands Central Support Services and regional research center. Land for
research in the Tropical Lowlands region is already available at Surdud farm
which belongs to TDA. Land occupancy will be a condition of project
effectiveness.
Technical Assistance
3.23      Graduate Degree Trainig.  Prior to going abroad for advanced-degree
study, each candidate would serve about one year working in agricultural
research with ARDA and receive language training as necessary. It is
anticipated that a total of three years would be required to complete M.S.
training and four years for the Ph.D. degree. This includes the one-year
in-service training period with ARDA. A total of 23 candidates would be
trained for the M.S. degree and nine for the Ph.D. degree during the five
years of the project. Any attrition will be taken care of by substituting
existing or additional hired staff. The graduate-degree training program
would be in accordance with the following table; further details as to
locations and disciplines are shown in the Project File (Annex 6, C.1):
Leaving for
Hired for In-Service        Graduate Study
Training at ARDA    M.S.   Ph.D.   Total
(No.)                   (No.)
Pre-project              11                      -
Year 1                    9               8       3      11
Year 2                    9               7       2       9
Year 3                    3               7      4       11
Year 4                    -               I      -        I



- 20 -
Other training would also include short-term training of research farm
managers at ICARDA. An internationally recruited firm or organization,
acceptable to IDA, would administer the training program of Yemenis going
abroad.
3.24      International Staff.  While Yemeni scientists are being trained
abroad and recruited into ARDA, internationally recruited specialists will be
available to provide on-job training and assist in the research programs and
administration of the three regional research centers. About 50 man-years of
services in a wide range of applied production research specialties would be
required. This is a reduction from 113.5 man-years of consultants provided
during Phase II. The specialties, locations and duration of the consultants
are shown in the Project File (Annex 6, C.5). In addition, 20 man-months of
short-term international staff would also be available. An internationally
recruited firm or organization, acceptable to IDA, would also recruit the
international staff for ARDA.
3.25      Other Technical Assistance.  A PIU would be established to provide
overall coordination of planning and physical development. MAF is in the
process of employing a firm of qualified architects and engineers under PPF
funding to assist in the establishment of the PIU and to prepare designs,
technical drawings and specifications for civil works to permit early
tendering. Upon its establishment, ARDA would become the employer of these
consultants who would also provide full-time supervision of construction of
the principal facilities. The PIU would also prepare and maintain an
investment plan which would describe and indicate costs for all construction,
vehicles, farm equipment and furnishings as well as laboratory and office
equipment.
Incremental Operating Expenses
3.26      Salaries of additional Yemeni staff plus increases in compensation
at an average incremental cost per person per year of US$11,080 to attract and
retain professional Yemeni scientists are provided for by incremental funds
for salaries, wages and other operating costs. Assurances were obtained from
Government during negotiations that these incremental costs would be made
available through budget allocations.
The Research Program
3.27      The national research program is divided into six major commodity
groups, with emphasis on particular crops within these groups varying by
region; (i) cereals and feed legumes; (ii) vegetables and food legumes; (iii)
fruits and tree crops; (iv) livestock and range management; (v) forestry; and
(vi) industrial crops. The interaction of these various groups, where
applicable, would be evaluated in farming systems research.
3.28      Major emphasis in all regions which continues and expands the work
of Phase II will be placed on cereals and feed legumes, vegetables and food
legumes, and fruits and tree crops under the project. This prioLity is
determined by the importance of these food groups in the diet of the people,



-21 -
their importance in rural incomes, and the size of the imports of these
commodities. Emphasis will be placed on applied problem-oriented research
that will have a quick payout to the farmer. Research programs in livestock
and range management and forestry take much longer to be effective and to
achieve quantifiable results. But because of the degradation of the range
levels and the need for the initiation of rapid reforestation, a livestock/
range management specialist and a forestry specialist will be located at the
Central Highlands regional research center with primary responsibility for
continuing and expanding ongoing research and coordinating the work of other
researchers so that the limited resources for research in these areas are put
to the best use. Work on cotton will continue in the Tropical Lowlands.
Because of the difference in soils, climate, water and other conditions, each
region will be responsible for its own research program, and each region will
have staff available for the commodity groups important to that region. There
will be a National Coordinator for each major commodity group. Together with
the Director-General and Deputy Director General for research and the Regional
Directors, the National Coordinator will establish priorities, lay out the
programs and coordinate research efforts in the regions including bilateral
research. The emphasis within each commodity group would vary by region. For
example, wheat and barley research would be located in the Central Highlands
while tropical and semi-tropical fruits would receive priority among fruits
and tree crops in the Tropical Lowlands coastal plain.
3.29      Principles Guiding Research.  Research findings on improved
varieties and production technology would be verified in farmers' fields and
distributed to the extension service for immediate dissemination to the
farmers. This would be considered an essential part of the research project.
3.30.     Because of the limits to horizontal expansion of production due to
limited water resources and rainfall, increase in production will be sought
mainly by developing new or improved technological packages that are
acceptable to the farmers. Wherever possible, improved varieties and
technological packages developed elsewhere, and especially at the
international research centers with similar ecological conditions, would be
introduced into YAR. Consequently, the principles governing the research
effort would be as follows:
(a) research would be of an applied problem-oriented nature;
(b) concentration would be on problems that would give the quickest
payout at the lowest cost;
(c) simple, effective and low-cost methods that the farmer can afford
would be emphasized; and
(d) emphasis would be placed on preserving the resource base, e.g.,
terraced agriculture, coping with the agricultural labor shortage,
and efficient management of scarce resources such as water.
3.31      Research Program for Sorghum, Millet and Maize.  Sorghum, millet and
maize comprise such a large part of total agricultural production, and the



- 22 -
dietary needs of rural Yemenis are so dependent on their increased production,
that improved yields per hectare through use of new varieties and new
agronomic -ractices would have the highest priority.  A nationwide research
program would have long-term and short-term goals. The short-term goals could
be achieved through evaluation of new introductions, selection within local
varieties, and improved agronomic practices. Even with existing varieties,
yields may be enhanced substantially by improving the production technology.
The immediate objective is to maximize production of high-quality cereals that
are acceptable to the people, with minimum cost and in a short time. The
long-term goals could be achieved through the establishment of a breeding
program.
3.32      The research program would select from the germ-plasm in the
country, enlarge the germ-plasm base from outside, especially from the
international research centers, maintain the collection, and conduct field
trials comoaring growth and yields of introduced varieties with those of the
locally cultivated varieties. The genetic pool would be improved through
hybridization with selected parents, and field trials would be conducted to
determine optimum cultural practices and fertilization requirements for
promising varieties in different microclimatic conditions. Particular
importance would be given to training personnel to initiate and strengthen the
YAR national cereals research program.
3.33      3pecific research programs for improving production would include:
(a)  -he screening and evaluation of introductions and local selected
lines, with emphasis on local lines because of their high quality
:rain.  It is important to keep in mind the criteria of the farmer;
(i) eating quality or market preference; (ii) reliability of
performance; (iii) uniformity of maturity and grain type; (iv)
forage production; and (v) disease and insect tolerance;
(b) determination of fertilizer requirements of recommended varieties
under rainfed and irrigated conditions and the interaction of
fertilizer rates, plant population, and water requirements;
(c) the study of the effect of sowing date and plant population on grain
production, stover and forage and on the incidence of pests and
diseases;
(d) a survey of economic pests and recommendations of control methods by
avoidance of pests rather than insecticide applications. Varieties
would be screened for insect and disease tolerance;
(e) the control of grain smuts, grain molds, leaf rust and leaf blight
by cultural and chemical methods and the selection of resistant
lines; and
(f) the control of weeds by cultural and chemical methods.
3.34      Research Program for Wheat and Barley. The nationwide activity of
wheat and barley production improvement would be carried on over a period of



- 23 -
as long as 20 years. Short-term goals could be achieved through evaluation of
new introductions, particularly from the international research centers, and
agronomic practices such as fertilization, sowing time, etc. The long-term
goals would be achieved through the establishment of a breeding program which
could include segregating F2 and F3 lines from other parts of the world
with similar environment.
3.35      The local and exotic lines would be evaluated in different climatic
conditions, and the selected local genetic pools would be improved through
hybridization with selected parents of improved yield quality and quantity.
Research on agronomic practices would: (a) determine fertilizer requirements
under irrigated and rainfed conditions; (b) study the interaction between
fertilizer levels, plant population and variety; (c) determine optimum time of
sowing and plant densities under irrigated and rainfed conditions; (d)
determine what types of land preparation are most effective; and (e) determine
control measures for insects, diseases and weeds.
3.36      Research Program for Forage Crops.  Major attention would be devoted
to improving forage legume species currently grown in YAR and to introducing
new species or varieties that would diversify the forage crops available. It
would also increase livestock feed resources through growing forage crops on
irrigated and rainfed arable land found through integrated farming systems
research. As the leading forage legume, the improvement of alfalfa would
receive high priority. A program to introduce greater drought-resistant
varieties has been initiated by ARS. This would continue. Germ-plasm and
varieties from as many areas of the world as possible would be secured and
placed in observation trials in various regions of the country, and the
superior ones placed in yield trials and finally increased in farmers'
fields. An assessment of the losses due to diseases and insects would be
made, and resistant varieties obtained if needed. For example, varieties
resistant to rust, the most serious disease of alfafa, need to be developed.
Preliminary experiments show a great response to phosphate fertilizer so
research on proper fertilizing practices would be pursued. Experiments would
be conducted in both irrigated and rainfed situations.
3.37      In the Central Highlands other forage species would be investigated,
especially those with lower water requirements than alfalfa. For example,
annual medics would be tested as a forage to be planted in rotation with wheat
and barley. Research has been initiated on this and shows positive results.
Since the practice of hand feeding livestock with stalks of millet or sorghum
wrapped with a legume is widespread, feed legumes would be developed for
interplanting with millet, sorghum and maize. Dolichos (also a food legume)
and Clitoria spp. have shown promise in this regard, and experimentation would
continue with these and other species to secure those with the highest yield
of forage and adapted particularly to conditions in the Southern Uplands and
Tropical Lowlands regions. In the long term, forage species that have shown
promise in other regions of the tropics having limited or seasonal rainfall,
similar to that of YAR, should be introduced for observation in nurseries in
various parts of the country.
3.38      Research Program for Livestock and Range Management.  Concomitant
with the forage crops trials, experiments would be continued at the existing



- 24 -
range trials area in the Central Highlands and initiated in a new area in the
Tropical Lowlands, primarily to enhance sources for improved animal
nutrition. The objectives would be to determine the grazing capacity of the
range, the vigor of the plants under various intensities of grazing and the
productivity of native and introduced herbaceous and shrub species under
different environments. At a later stage of the program, grasses, shrubs and
trees would be planted to increase the production of forage on the range.
3.39      Another limited aspect of the research program would concentrate on
livestock improvement. In order to improve the livestock it is necessary to
show that having fewer quality livestock will produce more animal products and
also allow recovery of the range. Exotic breeds from other countries would be
introduced and crossed with YAR livestock to determine if it is profitable to
raise crossbreeds. Only exotic breeds which are adaptable to YAR conditions
will be used, as the exotic animals may need more feed. Animals may be
obtained from Syria, Pakistan or Sudan. It is entirely possible that with
correct disease and parasite treatment and with proper nutrition YAR livestock
would be high-producing animals. In addition to introducing improved sheep
breeds, efforts would be made to introduce improved dairy goats onto Yemeni
mixed farming holdings because of their ability to produce large amounts of
milk efficiently in semi-confinement from agricultural and industrial
by-products.
3.40      Research in Food Legumes.  The first priority for increasing food
legume production would be the introduction and/or development of high-
yielding varieties. This can be done most effectively by using the results of
international research centers but would not be limited to these organiza-
tions. The food legumes for which each has responsibility are as follows:
International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) - common bean; ICRISAT -
chickpea, pigeon pea; ICARDA - broad bean, chickpea (Middle East type),
lentil; Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center (AVRDC) - mung bean,
soybean; and International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) - cowpea,
lima bean.
3.41      Varieties from the international research centers need to be tested
for yield, adaptation, plant type, response to agronomic practices, resistaLnce
to diseases and insects, response to Rhizobium strains and tolerance to water
stress. From the initial testing of lines until release to the farmers may
take from three to five years, and will be a continuing process as the
international research centers gradually distribute even better germ-plasm
from their breeding programs. Other international programs of food legume
improvement also can-be valuable sources of germ-plasm and improved
varieties. These include the FAO Seed Improvement and Development Program
(SIDP); and the Food Legume Improvement and Development Program of the Field
Crops Section at the Arab Center for Studies of the Arid Zones and Dry Lands
(ACSAD), Damascus, Syria. The international research centers are developing
lines of food legumes both for planting in solid stands and for intercropping
and these can be made available to YAR researchers depending on how they are
to fit into the cropping pattern.
3.42      Food legumes are notoriously susceptible to losses from diseases and
pests. The most efficient means of control is through resistant varieties,



- 25 -
and this would receive the first priority. Control of pests through cultural
and other means would also receive attention; for example, interplanting and
rotation of crops, use of insect attractants, encouragement of natural
enemies, removal of crop residues, and use of proper planting dates.
3.43      In the work plan, priority for research would be given to the
improvement of those food legumes currently widely grown in YAR. These
include the common bean, broad bean, lentil, and cowpea. Two food legumes not
now produced but which have shown potential would receive major attention,
namely chickpeas and pigeon peas. These six species are designated as the
primary species. As the research progresses, the details of the research will
differ depending upon the particular cropping system. For example, in the
Tropical Lowlands and Southern Uplands, climbing varieties of beans would be
developed for interplanting with sorghum, maize or millet. In the Southern
Uplands and the Central Highlands, attention would be given to dwarf or
semi-vine type of beans for planting in solid strands.
3.44      Research Program for Horticulture.  Ongoing vegetable research on
variety testing would continue. Varieties from AVRDC and other international
research centers would be obtained to determine the varieties with resistance
to the insects, nematodes and diseases which are problems in YAR especially on
tomatoes, potatoes and onions. Vegetable research will also be initiated on
cultivation practices, harvesting, post-harvest technology, storage and
marketing so that seasonal surpluses of vegetables can be supplied to the
market year round.
3.45      Germ-plasm collections of papaya, mango, guava, grapes, lbanana,
pomegranate, date palm, apple, pear, peach, plum, apricot and almond would be
collected from different parts of the world. They would be evaluated for
yields as well as for resistance to insects and diseases. Studies would be
made to locate plant material resistant to nematodes and termites. The
research project would be responsible for producing nucleus or breeders seed
and plant material for seed multiplication units and for further production of
foundation and certified seeds as well as plant material for farmers.
3.46      Other tree crops like lychee, jujube, Macadamia nut, avocado,
passion fruit, pecan nut, loquat and jackfruit, as well as a few spice crops,
would be introduced to determine their suitability under the environmental
conditions of YAR. Finally, research would be initiated on quality control,
planting dates and storage of fruits to help alleviate the problems of
transportation and marketing.
3.47      Research Program for Coffee.  The technical assistance component of
the project does not include a long-term Coffee Specialist. It is expected
that the research program will be initiated and supervised by the Fruit and
Tree Crops Specialist in the Central Highlands on a day-to-day basis. Foreign
varieties would be imported for coffee variety trials including varieties
resistant to leaf rust. Variety trials and improved cultivation techniques
would be evaluated in all the different coffee-growing areas in order to
determine which varieties produce the highest quality and yield.



- 26 -
3.48      Research Program for Forestry.  The long-term research program would
give priority to reforestation, shelter belts and desertification control,
terrace preservation and the supply of basic wood products. Only certain
high-priority items would be considered in the first phase because of limited
financial and personnel resources. These programs will be initiated with the
cooperation of the bilateral agencies under the direction of the Forestry
Specialist. Trial plots established by the Forestry Adviser in MAF would be
taken over when the Forestry Adviser completes his assignment. Species
screening sites would be established in at least three different major
ecological zones in which new species of trees and range plants could be
introduced and tested for their adaptability to the varied YAR climates.
3.49      Small arboreta would be established near each regional research
center in some location that would represent cooperative effort between the
research establishment and the local community. Each tree specie would be
labeled as to scientific name, common name in Arabic and English, and a short
description of where it came from and where it could grow. They would serve
as a demonstration of the research effort. The most promising of the screened
species would be outplanted in selected sites representing some of the optimum
and extremes of ecological variations to be found within the areas in which
the trees could be expected to grow. These sites would again be selected
through local cooperators and along roads, around public buildings or
institutions. Both mountain and valley sites would be selected including
local variations in soil, aspect and water availability.
3.50      Ecological studies would be started in YAR as a long-term ongoing
aspect of the research effort. These would attempt to develop ecosystem
descriptions which would identify cropland areas, soils and soil
characteristics, water and atmospheric characteristics of temperature,
humidity, winds, aspect-climatic differences, orographic influences, etc.
Native plants would be identified and used as indicators of vegetational types
on non-croplands. A central herbarium would be maintained of native and
introduced species and used, together with the ecological information, as a
basis for identifying potential land-use patterns especially as they related
to tree growing and rangeland improvement potential.
3.51      Sand dune stabilization and shelter belts are critical needs in the
Tropical Lowlands plains and Wadi Jawf. For such purposes, trials with native
tree and shrub species that have already been tested for their adaptability, in
YAR would be used until additional species become available. These would
include various species of Acacia cyanophylla which grow quickly and provide
both fodder and wood.
3.52      Research Program for Cotton.  The research program would evaluate
and assess the efficiency of insecticides for specific insects, including the
economic threshold, and would test the efficiency of herbicides, especially on
the control of Bermuda grass and nut grass. Variety trials would continue as
well as trials on fertilizer requirements under irrigation, the effect of
plant population, fertilizer, and improved varieties. Trials would be
conducted on optimum water requirements and the most economical methods of



- 27 -
application. Investigations would be made on the influence of crop rotation
on the incidence of pests, especially termites.
3.53      Central Support Services.  The Central Support Services will
backstop research activities of the regional research centers and provide
technical assistance to other projects and organizations involved in
agricultural education or development as required. In Phase III, the Central
Support Services will iticlude the following sections;
(a)  Agricultural Economics.  The agricultural economics section will
conduct economic evaluations of the new technology packages being
generated by the researchers to determine their optimal use and
application to YAR farming systems.  It will advise ARDA on farmers'
needs as identified in farm surveys to ensure that research is
problem-oriented, relevant to farmers' needs, focused on low-cost
methods, and responsive to market preferences for the various
commodities. In the longer term, the section will plan and
implement a program to accurately identify and enumerate the
country's agricultural resources and the form of their utilization.
This would involve surveys to make an inventory of national
agricultural assets, production levels of various crops, and the
extent of the commercialization of agriculture. Shifting production
patterns would be identified and monitored to analyze their
implications for the research programs. Marketing systemLs, costs
and bottlenecks would be studied, and a price reporting system would
be established.
(b)  Soils, Water and Agricultural Chemistry.  Under the project, a new
laboratory will be constructed and staffed in the Central
Highlands. Its services will be available to research personnel in
ARDA and other projects to perform tests, analyses and
interpretations on the chemical and physical properties of soils and
to perform plant analyses in relation to fertilizer and plant
nutrition trials. The analytical Chemist/Soils and other Central
Support Services staff at the laboratory will work in close
cooperation with the commodity researchers in the various regions in
conducting experiments on plant nutrition and fertilizer
requirements.  They will also perform the physical and chemical
analyses necessary to support the nationwide program for the survey
and classification of YAR soils which has been initiated by Cornell
University under a USAID contract. Other services to be provided by
the laboratory staff include water analyses, quality surveys and
analyses of forages and feedstuffs. It is expected that a
well-equipped laboratory with competent staff will be an important
means of coordinating other projects with the research efforts.
(c)  Plant Protection.  The plant protection section would support the
commodity researchers in their efforts to control the diseases,
insects and weeds which limit production in YAR. The pathologist
would provide assistance to the crop specialists in a
commodity-oriented program to control diseases. Plant-disease



- 28 -
surveys would continue to record the incidence and to determine the
comparative importance of plant diseases affecting the various
crops. Investigations would be made to determine the best and most
economical measures for control, with particular emphasis on thie
selection of disease resistant varieties. Tests would be conducted
to determine the comparative efficacy of fungicides on the diseases
in the different regions. The entomologist would assist the
commodity researchers in identifying insects of economic importance
that cause the greatest damage to plants. He would assist in the
development of an insect control plan, including testing of
insecticides, experiments on host plant resistance and developing
screening procedures for varieties resistant to insects. The
disease and insect control services would be available to the
extension services nationwide in the implementation of disease and
insect control programs. Because of the importance of germ-plasm
collection, the Plant Protection section would also be responsible
for plant quarantine, cold storage of seeds and materials, and a
nursery for isolation.
(d)  Information, Training and Communication.  This section would have
the following responsibilities; to supervise on-job training of
counterparts, assistants and new staff being recruited in ARDA; to
assist the Director-General in selecting suitable candidates for
fellowships; to arrange for the placement of fellows going overseas;
to supervise the ongoing on-job training by expatriate specialists
of returning fellows; to ensure that all research findings are
reported and recorded; to ensure the steady flow of research results
to the extension service, agricultural schools, farmers and other
agricultural projects; to organize seminars, training sessions and
field days to disseminate research results; to arrange for research
personnel to backstop the extension service and agricultural schools
in their training needs; and to prepare technical bulletins,
pamphlets, audio-visual aids and radio programs to disseminate
research results.
(e)  Library.  The library will provide reference material and
informational services to scientists working at the regional
stations and in other projects to enable them to keep up to date on
research developments in their field. The library would also be
responsible for the technical report literature so that all
scientists and organizations are informed of each other's work and
results. The library will collect, index and reproduce reports for
distribution to the regional centers.  Under this project, the
library will have subscriptions to approximately 25 journals which
will contain most of the references required for applied research.
The book collection will be expanded to approximately 5,000 volurnes,
including a number of scientific and technical works which are
available in Arabic.  It will have the necessary photocopying and
other reproduction facilities necessary to supply the regional
centers and other projects with reference material when requested.



- 29 -
C. Cost Estimates
3.54      The total project cost is estimated to be US$32.4 million equivalent
of which some US$20.0 million equivalent (about 62%) is foreign exc'hange. The
project is exempt from taxes and duties. The project cost represents the
estimated investment cost during the five-year (1983-87) project
implementation period in first-quarter 1982 terms with physical contingencies
and price escalation added. The estimated foreign exchange cost will largely
be for civil works, vehicles and farm equipment, international staff and
training abroad. Foreign exchange cost per man-year of international staff is
estimated at US$81,600 and local cost at US$8,400. Contingencies amount to
approximately US$8.5 million equivalent or about 35% of the project base
cost. Physical contingencies of US$1.5 million are estimated to be 15% of the
cost of civil works and research farm development plus 10% of all other
development costs. Price contingencies of US$6.7 million are baseci on
projected future inflation factors for local and imported project c:omponents.
Local price contingencies amount to 8% of the sum of the base cost, plus
physical contingencies for 1982 and 1983, and 7% thereafter through the end of
the project. Price contingencies on imported components of the project amount
to 8.5% of the sum of the base cost plus physical contingencies for 1982; 7.5%
for 1983-85; and 6.0% thereafter. A summary of the project cost is given in
Table 3.1 with details in Annex 1:



- 30 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY /1
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
----(YR1s Million)---    ----us  Milio)
Development Program
Civil Works - Research                 4.29   27.95    32.24    0.95    6.21    7.16             87
Civil Works - Extension                 1.80    1.80      3.60    0.40    0.40    0.80           50
Vehicles & Farm Equipment              0.67    5.13       5.80    0.15    1.14    1.29           88
General Furniture & Equipment           1.62    1.17      2.79    0.36    0.26    0.62           42
Laboratory Furniture & Equipment         -       1.91      1.91     -       0.42    0.42        100
Library & Documentation Service          -      1.13      1.13      -       0.25    0.25        100
Research Farm Development               0.49    0.06      0.55    0.11    0.01    0.12           11
Subtotal                          8.87   39.15    48.02    1.97    8.69   10.66            82
Technical Assistance
International Staff
Long-Term                         2.27   18.00    20.27    0.50    4.00    4.50             89
Short-Term                        0.18    0.99       1.17    0.04    0.22    0.26          85
Fellowships
Long-Term                          -       5.50      5.50      -       1.22    1.22        100
Short-Term                         -       0.50      0.50      -      0.11    0.11         100
Other Technical Assistance /2           2.90    2.90      5.80    0.64    0.64    1.28           50
Subtotal                          5.35   27.89    33.24    1.18    6.19    7.37             84
Incremental Operating Expenses
Salaries & Wages                      19.01      -       19.01    4.22       -       4.22        -
Other Operating Expenses                7.85     -        7.85    1.74       -       1.74        -
Subtotal                         26.86      -       26.86    5.96      -       5.96        -
Project Base Cost                     41.08   67.04   108.12    9.11   14.88   23.99             62
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                  1.23    5.42      6.65    0.27    1.20    1.47           82
Price Contingencies                   13.35   18.09    31.44    2.97    4.02    6.99             58
Subtotal                         14.58   23.51    38.09    3.24    5.22    8.46             62
Total Project Cost                    55.66   90.55   146.21   12.35   20.10   32.45             62
/1 Figures rounded.
/2 Includes two PPFs of US$250,000 and USt150,000 respectively.



- 31 -
D. Financing
3.55      An IDA credit of US$6.0 million equivalent on standard terms would
finance about 28% of foreign and 2% of local costs and amount to about 19% of
total cost. This leaves a foreign contribution of US014.7 million
equivalent. The Italian Government has agreed to provide financing of US$8.0
million equivalent for Italian civil works and equipment and grants for
financing 10 man-years of Italian experts (US$0.9 million equivalent) or about
44% of foreign exchange cost and about 28% of total cost. IFAD has agreed to
provide financing of US$5.8 million or about 28% of foreign exchange cost and
about 18% of total cost. Local cost of about US$11.7 million would be borne
by Government and amounts to about 36% of total cost. The financing plan is
given in Table 3.2:



Table 3.2; FINANCING PLAN /1
IFAD               Italy                  IDA
Government            Foreign             Foreign                Foreign
Item                 Local   Foreign   Total        Local      Local  Exchange   Local  Exchange   Local 2/  Exchange
----------------------------------- (US$ million equivalent)-----------------------
Infrastructure Program
Civil Works - Research              1.3       8.3      9.6         1.3         -        1.6       -        5.8        -           0.9
Civil Works - Extension             0.5       0.5      1.0         0.5         -         -        -         -         -           0.5
Equipment                           0.7       2.8      3.5         0.7         -         -         -       2.2        -           0.6
Farm Development                    0.2        -       0.2         0.2         -         -         -        -         -            -
Technical Assistance
International Staff & Other         1.6       6.6      8.2         0.9        0.3       3.9      0.1       0.8       0.3          1.9
Fellowships                          -        1.8      1.8                -              -                                        1.8
Incremental Operating Expenses    8.1          -       8.1         8.1                                                -            -
Total                   12.4      20.0      32.4        11.7       0.3       5.5       0.1       8.8      0.3           5.7
/1  All figures are rounded and include contingencies.
7X  Local costs for international staff.



- 33 -
The signature by both parties of co-finar.ciers' agreements for US$14.7 million
equivalenc i,3 a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.56      Procurement will be handled by a Physical Implementation Unit (PIU),
established by Government and which would be integrated into the new ARDA at
the time of effectiveness.
3.57      Civil Works.  The civil works included in the IDA-financed component
of the project would comprise ancillary research facilities. Estimated cost
for civil works is about US$10.6 million equivalent of which US$1.4 million
would be financed by IDA. Since these civil works would be relatively small,
it would not be suitable for ICB and would be let under local competitive
bidding procedures which are satisfactory.
3.58      Equipment and Materials.  The procurement of IDA-financed equipment
(US$0.6 million of a total of US$3.5 million equivalent) would be Eor
specialized laboratory, library and research materials, and equipment and
would be procured by limited international bidding.
3.59      Technical Assistance.  Government is to secure the services of an
internationally recruited firm or organization in accordance with Bank Group
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency", dated August 1981, to provide the
international staff, administer the post-graduate training program abroad, and
purchase research equipment. A suitable contracted firm or organization,
acceptable to IDA, is a condition of effectiveness.
IDA Disbursement
3.60      The IDA credit of US$6.0 million equivalent will be disbursed over
five years. Disbursement will be as follows:
(a)  Civil works other than pre-             100% of foreign expenditures and 50%
fabricated (US$1.4 million)             of local expenditures
(b)  Laboratory and general                   100% of foreign expenditures and 50%
furniture, library and                  of local expenditures
documentation services
(US$0.6 million)
(c)  International staff and                  100% of foreign expenditures and 50%
other technical assistance              of local expenditures
(US$2.2 million) 1/
(d)  Fellowships (US$1.8 million)             100%
1/  Includes PPF of US$400,000.



- 34 -
Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation. The estimated
annual disbursements are shown in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS /1
IDA Fiscal Year
1983     1984    1985      1986      1987      1988
(US$ million equivalent)---
Annual;       IDA                 0.7       1.0     1.3       1.8       1.0      0.2
Co-financiers       1.5       2.0     3.8       5.2       1.7      0.5
Cumulative:  IDA                  0.7 /2   1.7      3.0       4.8      5.8       6.0
Co-financiers       1.5       3.5     7.3      12.5     14.2      14.7
/1 A semesterly schedule is shown in Annex 2.
/2 Includes PPF of US$0.4 million.
It is expected that disbursement will be completed on December 31, 1987 and
the closing date of the IDA credit will be June 30, 1988.
3.61      The disbursement profile for the proposed project has been compared
with various agricultural sector profiles of IBRD loans to EMENA countries,
FY70-80, and with that of the YAR Tihama Development Project I and Southern
Uplands Rural Development Project I. Profiles for the EMENA Region show the
following characteristics:
50% Disbursed
No. of              Year from Date
Class                       Projects                of Approval
All Agricultural Projects                        67              5th year, 1sit half
Rural Development Subsector Projects              6              4th year, 2d half
YAR Rural Development Projects                    2              4th year, 2d half
Under the proposed project, it is estimated that 50% of the IDA credit will be
disbursed during the third year, first half, from the date of credit
effectiveness which is primarily due to large front-end expenditures of civil
works, farm equipment and vehicles.
F. Environmental Impact
3.62      The project will not have any adverse effects on the physical
environment and should, through the development of improved technology, have a
beneficial effect. The development of improved farming techniques through
crop rotation, more efficient use of irrigation water, soil conservation,
improved range management, afforestation and desertification control should
all help to conserve and improve the environment.



- 35 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Agricultural Research and Development Authority (ARDA)
4.01      The project would be implemented by a new legal entity, an ARDA,
with powers and responsibilities acceptable to IDA (Annex 3). Government's
establishment of ARDA is a condition of effectiveness. ARDA would conduct, as
well as coordinate, all applied agricultural research in YAR. It would also
set standards for research staff and provide for incentives and ad[vancement to
attract and retain Yemenis wishing to make a career in applied agricultural
research. ARDA's organizational structure is shown in Annex 4, Chart 1. Its
overall direction would be governed by a Board of Directors with the Minister
of Agriculture and Fisheries as its Chairman or his representative. The Board
would formulate national agricultural research policies and approve the annual
research programs. Further details are shown in Annex 3.
Research Coordination Committee (RCC)
4.02      The major decision-making activities of ARDA would be conducted by
the Director General who will also act as the Central Highlands Regional
Research Center Director and be assisted by two Deputy Directors General, one
for Research and another for Administration. These three plus the other two
Regional Research Center Directors would constitute the RCC, which would
oversee the annual programs and day-to-day operations of ARDA and have overall
responsibility for project implementation. Appointment of the Director
General of ARDA, acceptable to IDA, is a condition of effectiveness. He would
be an experienced senior agricultural scientist, preferably with a Ph.D.
degree and a minimum of 10 years experience or with an M.-S. degree and about
12 years experience.
National Agricultural Research Council (NARC)
4.03      The RCC would be backstopped by a NARC.  Its members would include
those on the RCC plus the commodity research coordinators, representatives of
the extension service and representatives of organizations outside of ARDA
conducting agricultural research in YAR. NARC would review and aLpprove all
research programs and formulate multidisciplinary teams for commodity-oriented
research programs and farming systems research. It would also review training
requirements for ARDA and approve nominations for those to be trained locally
and abroad.



- 36 -
Physical Implementation Unit (PIU)
4.04      To expedite the physical development of the project, the PIU, headed
by an architect or engineer, is being established by MAF. The PIU would be
responsible for overall coordination of planning and physical development: and
would be integrated into ARDA as an operational planning unit. The PIU would
then report directly to the Director General of ARDA. The duties of the PIU
would include:
(a) design and supervise construction of main offices and laboratories
(terms of reference for consulting firm are in the Project File,
Annex 6, C.4);
(b) design, tendering and supervision of construction of ancillary
buildings;
(c)  preparation and maintenance of an investment plan which would
describe and indicate costs for all construction, vehicles, farm,
laboratory and office equipment, and furnishings;
(d) maintenance of catalogs and up-to-date prices on local and imported
goods proposed to be purchased;
(e) expediting the duty-free importation of goods;
(f) acting as liaison between the consulting firm, contractors and ARDA
on technical matters involving planning, construction and purchase
of goods; and
(g) monitoring and reporting to the Director-General on all aspects of
the physical development of ARDA.
B. Staffing and Training
4.05      The project envisages by the end of year 1987 that ARDA will have a
professional Yemeni staff of 44 senior scientists (12 Ph.D. and 32 M.S.) and
49 junior scientists (B.S.) backstopped by 121 technical and administrative
staff as compared to existing Yemeni staff of ARS of 5 M.S., 17 B.S. and 42
technical and administrative staff. Details on staffing are in the Project
File (Annex 6, C.1).
4.06      The project would have a fellowship program for advanced-degree
training abroad. It would be administered abroad by an internationally
recruited firm or organization acceptable to IDA. Each Yemeni receiving a
fellowship would agree in writing to work for ARDA for a period at least twice
the period spent abroad less the prefellowship time with ARDA. A total of 23
would be trained to M.S. level and nine to Ph.D. level. Prior to going abroad
for advanced-degree study, each candidate would serve for about one year with
ARDA as well as receive foreign language training if required. Specific



- 37 -
fellowships by disciplines have been identified and are shown in the Project
File (Annex 6, C.1). Short-term fellowships for a total of 20 man-months are
also provided under the project for specific training in improved technology
and methodology. The RCC will nominate candidates for training abroad and
submit their names to NARC for approval.
C. International Staff
4.07 The project would appoint an internationally recruited firm or
organization, acceptable to IDA, to provide the international staff,
administer the training programs abroad, and purchase research equipment. It
would provide 50 man-years of internationally recruited staff (a reduction
from 113.5 man-years in Phase II) to assist in the establishment oif ARDA as a
viable organization at a total cost of US$7,500 per man-month. The
international staff would help offset the lack of adequately trained research
personnel especially during the first three years of project execution. In
addition to assisting in management and on-job training, they would also help
select Yemenis for advanced-degree and short-term training abroad. They would
promote associations with various International Research Centers such as
ICRISAT on farming systems, ICARDA for sorghum and millet, and CIMMYT for
wheat and maize. The international staff required, their disciplines and
periods of service are shown in the Project File (Annex 6, C.1). Terms of
reference for the consulting firm or organization contracting the
international staff are shown in the Project File (Annex 6, C.5). The
consulting firm or organization, acceptable to IDA, would be hired by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries until ARDA becomes established and the
Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries would have full authority to reject any
proposed candidates by the firm or their removal if they prove
unsatisfactory. The signing of a contract with an internationally recruited
firm or organization, acceptable to IDA, to recruit consultant specialists,
administer the fellowship program, and purchase research equipment is a
condition of effectiveness.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring
4.08 Monitoring of civil works construction and procurement of furnishings,
vehicles and equipment would be the responsibility of the PIU. The PIU would
prepare quarterly reports that would also include a description of the
activities planned for the following quarter. These reports would be
submitted to ARDA's Director General with copies forwarded to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries and to IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained
at negotiations.
4.09 The overall technical monitoring of the research, conducted directly by
ARDA and that conducted under separate bilateral projects, would be the



- 38 -
responsibility of the RCC. Regional Directors would prepare semi-annual
progress reports that would be submitted to the RCC and copies fowarded to the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and to IDA. The RCC would produce an
annual report as well as semi-annual statements of research plans that would
include revisions of research objectives and proposals for redirecting or
initiating research programs. Those reports and statements would be forwarded
to IDA for review, and an assurance to that effect was obtained at
negotiations.
Evaluation
4.10      A mid-term review of all research activities funded under the
project would be commissioned by ARDA and conducted by an internationally
recruited team of two scientists, accompanied by a staff member from IDA, at
the end of project year three.   About three man-months of international
consultancy services are provided under the project for this purpose. The
review team would:
(a) assess the organizational aspects of ARDA;
(b) review the procedure for selection of subprojects and review the
decisions made by the RCC, NARC and the Board of Directors;
(c)  review the operation of the RCC's system for monitoring research;
(d) determine the relevance of the research undertaken with reference to
the priorities established by NARC;
(e) make on-site assessments of progress of research in selected areas;
(f)  assess the quality of the research conducted and of the research
workers employed under the project, and the relevance of results
likely to be obtained, to local farming conditions and farmers'
needs; and
(g) evaluate, with assistance from extension personnel and ARDA staff,
the realized and likely impact of the project on farm yields, and
farming profitability and incomes.
The consultants would produce a report that would include recommendations for
changes in program design, and identify possible components to be included in
the programs of the future regional centers foreseen for the Northern
Highlands and eastern slopes. This report would be made available to MAF and
to IDA, and Government would consult with IDA on findings and recommendations
prior to adopting any changes.
4.11      The RCC would prepare a completion report and submit it to IDA
within six months of the Credit closing date. An assurance to this effect was
obtained during negotiations.



- 39 -
E. Accounts and Audit
4.12      ARDA's budget procedures would be laid out in the ARDA charter
(Annex 3). The budget will cover all expenditure for Headquarters and the
regional research centers. It will be further defined to show the authorized
expenditure per commodity. Each commodity specialist would prepare his budget
by region. The agreed budgets would constitute the operating limits of each
regional research center. Travel, salaries and office expenses are paid by
the regions where single records of income and expenditures are maintained and
submitted monthly to headquarters.
4.13      ARDA would maintain separate records and accounts for the project.
Independent private auditors satisfactory to IDA would audit those accounts
annually, certified copies of the audited financial statement and oE the
auditors' report would be submitted to IDA within eight months of the end of
each fiscal year, and assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations. Records and accounts will be kept divided into operating and
capital expenditure and receipts. They will be supported by invoices and in
the case of Statements of Expenditure by necessary documentation. They will
allow the identification of expenditures according to Category in the Credit
Agreement. ARS has a qualified Yemeni accountant, and assurances were
obtained at negotiations that such an accountant would be continued from the
start of disbursements and for the duration of the project.
V. BENEFITS, INSTITUTIONAL IMPACT, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
5.01      During the 1970s, the principal source of growth in agricultural
production in YAR has apparently been a shift to higher value crops in
response to the pronounced shift in consumer demand induced by rising farm and
non-farm incomes. The aggregate increases obtained in food production,
however, have fallen increasingly short of total demand, and growing imports
of agricultural products have been required to meet the resulting gap. Yemeni
agriculture can supply a larger and more diversified basket of goods within
its land and climate resource endowments and constraints by increasing yields
for existing crops, raising cropping intensities and introducing new
products. A well thought-out and properly implemented program of applied
research would appear essential to test and develop the appropriate
technologies to bring those benefits about.
5.02      Evidence elsewhere 1/ has shown that investment in agricultural
research can realize rates of return generally two to three times greater than
likely returns from other types of investment. Conservatively, it is expected
that with this research project new technology packages would be developed to
I/ Agricultural Research, IBRD Sector Policy Paper, June 1981.



- 40 -
improve farmers' productivity and income. It would be expected that existing
varieties of sorghum, maize, wheat, and various fruits and vegetables would be
replaced with improved varieties providing increased yield, pest resistance or
both.
Institutional Impact
5.03      The proposed project is designed to establish a viable agricultural
research organization with sufficient autonomy, prestige and resources to
attract and retain high-caliber and applied research-oriented Yemeni
scientists and managers. It is anticipated that the proposed institutional
structure would permit proper planning and execution of national research
programs. It is also expected that there would be a more efficient use of
limited human and financial resources by the establishment of priorities and
the coordination of bilateral efforts with a national research program.
Risks
5.04      There is a risk that Government may delay action in promulgating the
Decree establishing ARDA. This risk is minimized as Government, as a
condition of negotiations, presented a draft copy of the proposed Decree
establishing ARDA (para 4.01). There also exists a risk that ARDA may fail to
evolve as envisaged mainly because of a disinclination of sufficient numbers
of Yemeni scientists to devote themselves to applied agricultural research in
the light of likely occupational alternatives.  The project seeks to minimize
this risk by ensuring that ARDA would have the necessary powers and
responsibilities to offer challenging and prestigious career possibilities and
attractive remuneration and living conditions. Given, however, the extrerne
scarcity of trained and college educated manpower in YAR, a strong demand from
outside should be expected for initially ARDA-oriented technicians.
5.05      There are always serious risks in agricultural research projects,
that research programs and results are not responsive to real farmers' needs
or that, if the research results are appropriate, they are not adequately
relayed to farmers. The proposed project seeks to minimize these risks by
establishing regional research centers to work on a commodity-oriented basis,
initially in the three main agro-ecological zones of the country, and by
providing for extension specialists in each of the regional centers to serve
as a link between research and extension in the respective agricultural
regions. Extension services presently exist in the Tropical Lowlands,
Southern Uplands and in the Central Highlands up to Yarim through
IDA-supported projects. They will be further extended into the Central
Highlands by this project through construction of additional extension centers
in the vicinity of the Central Highlands regional research center in the
Dhamar area and north to the Mabar area. These additional extension centers
will then be merged with the extension services to be developed under the
Intermontane project scheduled for appraisal in 1983. Farmers in YAR have
already shown themselves ready to adopt improved varieties and practices as
they have been made available to them. Since most of the YAR agriculture is
in rainfed areas, the project will emphasize research on minimizing the risks
due to the vagaries of rainfall.



- 41 -
Justification
5.06      Because the uncertain nature of research defies averaging between
success and failure, it is impossible to quantify ex ante benefits from
research in precise terms. Even when research programs produce useful
technologies, their application depends on the efficiency of extension and
other delivery and farmer support systems, and possible lags in adoption
increase the scope for error in any attempt to quantify expected economic
benefits.
5.07      Some ex post evaluations of individual crop research programs in
Latin America yielded rates of return in the range of 35% to 90%, and similar
analyses in the USA and other developed countries have given lower, but still
strongly positive, results. Studies in India of the impact of the green
revolution yielded internal rates of return between 35% and 112%.
5.08      All available evidence points, therefore, to an unusually high
payoff from applied research projects in developing countries, and similar
results can be confidently expected in YAR. In view of this and of the
measures adopted to minimize the risks analyzed above, the proposed project
appears fully justified. Furthermore, the World Bank's sector policy paper on
agricultural research (June 1981) recommends that a desirable investment
target for countries with poorly developed agricultural research systems would
be an annual expenditure (recurrent plus capital) of about 2% of agricultural
gross domestic product. During the five years of this project, estimated
annual expenditure for agricultural research for YAR would amount to 0.9% of
agricultural GDP or well below the recommended 2% of agricultural GDP.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreements having been reached on the various issues referred to in
Chapters III and IV of this report and subject to the conditions of
effectiveness described in paras 3.22, 3.55, 3.59, 4.01, 4.02 and 4.07, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDRs 5,400,000 (US$6.0 million
equivalent) on standard terms to the Yemen Arab Republic.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phased Summary of Total Project Costs
(YRls Million)
Year I                    Year 2                     Year 3                     Year 4                     Year S                         Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total                   Local   oe        Total
Development Cost
Civil Works - Research                    1.07      6.99    8.06   1.29        8.38    9.67      1.29    8.38    9.67       0.64    4.20    4.84        -                 -         4.29    27.95     32.24
Civil Works - Extension                   0.45      0.45    0.90   0.54        0.54     1.08     0.54    0.54      1.08    0.27    0.27       0.54      -        -        -         1.80     1.80      3.60
Vehicles 6 Farm Equipment                 0.17      1.28    1.45   0.20        1.54    1.74    0.17       1.28    1.45    0.13       1.03     1.16      -        -        -         0.67     5.13       5.80
General Furniture & Equipment             0.33      0.23    0.56   0.39        0.30    0.69    0.49       0.35    0.84    0.41       0.29     0,70      -                 -         1.62     1.17       2.79
Laboratory Furniture & Equipment           -        0.10    0.10      -        0.38     0.38      -       0.67     0.67      -       0.76     0.76      -        -        -          -       1.91      1.91
Library & Documentation Services           -        0.23    0.23      -        0.28    0.28       -       0.34    0.34       -       0.28     0.28           -            -          -       1.13      1.13
Research Farm Development                 0.13      0.01    0.14   0.12        0.02    0.14    0.17    0.02    0.19    0.07    0.01           0.08      -        -        -         0.49     0.06      0.55
Subtotal Base Cost                   2.15     9.29   11.44   2.54       11.44   13.98      2.66   11.58   14.24       1.52    6.84    8.36         -       -         -         8.87    39.15    48.02
Physical Contingencies                    0.30      1.30     1.60   0.35       1.59     1.94    0.37      1.61     1.98    0.20      0.91     1.11      -        -        -         1.22     5.41      6.63
Price Contingencies                       0.30      1.32     1.62   0.60       2.73    3.33      0.88     3.96    4.84    0.66       3.01     3.67      -        -        -         2.44   11.02      13.46
Subtotal                            2.75      11.91   14.66   3.49      15.76   19.25      3.91    17.15   21.06    2.38    10.76   13.14          -       -        -        12.53   55.58    68.11
Technical Assistance Cost
International Staff
Long Term                               0.68      5.40    6.08   0.59        4.68     5.27     0.59    4.68      5.27    0.23      1.80    2.03      0.18     1.44     1.62       2.27   18.00      20.27
Short Term                              0.03      0.17    0.20   0.04        0.21    0.25      0.04    0.21    0.25    0.03    0.18    0.21          0.03     0.19    0.22        0.17     0.96      1.13
Fellowships
Long Term                                -        1.16     1.16    -         1.82     1.82      -       1.40     1.40      -       0.82     0.82      -       0,30     0.30        -       5.50      5.50
Short Term                               -        0.10    0.10      -        0.10    0.10       -       0.10    0.10       -      0.10    0.10        -       0.10    0.10         -       0.50      0.50
Other Technical Assistance                0.70      0.70    1.40   0.70        0.70    1.40    0.50    0.50        1.00    0.50    0.50       1.00    0.50      0.50     1.00       2.90    2.90       5.80
Subtotal Base Cost                   1.41      7.53    8.94   1.33       7.51    8.84      1.13    6.89    8.02    0.76        3.40    4.16      0.71     2.53     3.24       5.34   27.86       33.20
Price Contingencies                       0.17      0.94    1.11   0.27        1.57     1.84    0.33    2.07    2.40    0.29         1.32     1.61     0.34     1.19     1.53       1.40     7.09      8.49
Subtotal                             1.58     8.47   10.05   1.60        9.08   10.68      1.46    8.96   10.42    1.05    4.72         5.77     1.05      3.72    4.77       6.74    34.95    41.69
Incremental Operational Cost
Salaries, Wages & Benefits                1.78       -       1.78   2.30        -       2.30     3.45      -       3.45    4.83       -       4.83     6.65      -       6.65      19.01      -       19.01
Other Operating Costs                     0.61       -       0.61   1.14        -       1.14     1.55              1.55    2.03       -       2.03     2.52      -       2.52       7.85      -        7.85
Subtotal Base Cost                  2.39       -       2.39   3.44        -       3.44     5.00      -       5.00     6.86      -       6.86     9.17      -       9.17      26.86      -       26.86
Price Contingencies                       0.29       -       0.29   0.71        -       0.71     1.46      -       1.46     2.62      -       2.62     4.38      -       4.38       9.46      -        9.46
Subtotal                            2.68       _       2.68   4.15    _           4.15    6.46       -       6.46    9.48       -       9.48    13.55      -_    13.55       36.32      -       36.32
Project Base Cost                    5.95     16.82   22.77    7.31     18.95   26.26      8.79    18.47   27.26    9.14   10.24    19.38        9.88     2.53    12.41      41.07   67.01    108.08
Contingencies
Physical                                  0.30      1.30    1.60   0.35        1.59     1.94    0.37      1.61     1.98    0.20    0.91       1.11      -        -        -         1.22     5.41      6.63
Price                                     0.76      2.26    3.02   1.58        4.30     5.88    2.67    6.03    8.70    3.57    4.33          7.90    4.72      1.19     5.91      13.30   18.11      31.41
Subtotal                            1.06      3.56    4.62    1,93       5.89     7.82    3.04    7.64   10.68    3.77    5.24          9.01     4.72     1.19     5.91      14.52   23.52      38.04
Total Project Cost                   7.01    20.38   27.39   9.24       24.84   34.08   11.83   26.11   37.94   12.91   15.48   28.39    14.60            3.72    18.32      55.S9   90.53   146.12



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phased Summary of Project Costs
(YRls million)
ARDA Headquarters and Central Highlanlds Regional Research Center
Year I                    Year 2                     Year 3                     Year 4                     Year 5                         Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local   orign  Total   Local  Foreign   otal                     Lcal  Fore         Total
Development Cost
Civil Works - Research                    0.73      4.78     5.51   0.88       5.73    6.61   0.88        5.73    6.61   0.44        2.86     3.30    -         -         -         2.93    19.10      22.03
Civil Works - Extension                   0.45      0.45    0.90   0.54        0.54    1.08   0.54        0.54     1.08   0.27       0.27     0.54     -        -         -         1.60     1.80       3.60
Vehicles & Farm Equipment                 0.10      0.76    0.86   0.12        0.91     1.03   0.10       0.76    0.86   0.08        0.61     0.69     -        -         -         0.40    3.04        3.44
General Furniture & Equipment             0.21      0.15    0.36   0.26        0.18    0.44   0.31        0.23    0.54   0.26        0.19     0.45    -         -         -          1.04    0.75       1.79
Laboratorv Furniture & Equipment           -        0.08    0.08    -          0.33    0.33    -          0.57    0.57      -        0.66     0.66    -         -         -          -       1.64       1.64
Library & Documentation Services           -        0.23    0.23    -          0.28    0.28    -          0.34    0.34    -          0.28     0.28    -         -         -          -       1.13       1.13
Research Farm Developmant                 0.07      0.01    0.08   0.06         -       0.06   0.10       0.01    0.11   0.04        0.01    D.05      -        _                   0.27    0.03        0.30
Subtotal Base Cost                   1.56      6.46    8.02   1.86       7.97     9.83   1.93       8.18   10.11   1.09        4.88     5.97    -                   -          6.44   27.49      33.93
Physical Contingencies                    0.22      0.91     1.13   0.26       1.11     1.37   0.27       1.13     1.40   0.15       0.65     0.80    -         -         -         0.90     3.80       4.70
Price Contingencies                       0.22      0.92    1.14   0.44        1.90    2.34   0.64        2.79     3.43   0.47       2.14     2.61              _       __           1.77    7.75       9.52
Subtotal                            2.00       8.29   10.29   2.56      10.98   13.54   2.84       12.10   14.94    1.71       7.67     9.38    -         _         _          9.11    39.04    48.15
Technical Assistance Cost
International Staff
Long Term                               0.50      3.96    4.46   0.41        3.24     3.65   0.41       3.24     3.65   0.23       1.80     2.03   0.18      1.44      1.62       1.73    13.68     15.41
Short Term                              0,03      0.17    0.20   0.04        0.21     0.25   0.04      0.21    0.25   0.04        0.21     0.25   0.03    0.19         0.22       0.18     0.99    -1.17
Fellowships
Long Term                                -        0.70    0.70    -          0.88    0.88    -          0.70    0.70    -          0.29     0.29     -        -         _          _       2.57       2.57
Short Term                               -        0.10    0.10    -          0.10    0.10     -        0.10    0.10       -       0.10    0.10       -       0.10      0.10        -       0.50      0.50
Other Technical Assistance                0.70      0.70    1.40   0.70        0.70    1.40   0.50        0.50     1.00   0.50       0.50     1.00   0.50    0.50        1.00       2.90     2.90       5.80
Subtotal Base Cost                   1.23      5.63    6.86   1.15       5.13    6.28   0.95        4.75     5.70   0.77       2.90     3.67   0.71      2.23       2.94       4.81    20.64     25.45
Price Contingencies                       0.15      0.70    0.85   0.24        1.07    1.31   0.28        1.43    1.71   0.29        1.12     1.41   0.34    1.05        1.39       1.30    5.37        6.67
Subtotal                             1.38      6.33     7.71   1.39      6.20    7.59   1.23        6.18     7.41    1.06      4.02     5.08   1.05       3.28     4.33        6.11   26.01      32.12
Incremental Operational Cost
Salaries, Wages & Benefits                1.06       -       1.06   1.68        -       1.68   2.31        -       2.31    3.19       -       3.19   4.04       -        4.04      12.28      -       12,28
Other Operating Costs                     0.37       -       0.37   0.59        -       0.59   0.81        -       0.81    1.12       -       1.12   1.41       -        1.41       4.30      -         4.30
Subtotal Base Cost                   1.43       -       1.43   2.27       -       2.27   3.12         -      3.12   4.31        -       4.31    5.45      -         5.45      16.58      -       16.58
Price Contingencies                       0.18       -       0.18   0.47        -       0.47   0.91        -       0.91    1.64       -       1.64   2.61       -        2.61       5.81      -         5.81
Subtot3l                             1.61       _      1.61   2.74        -       2.74   4.03        -       4.03   5.95        _       5.95   8.06       -        8.06      22.39       -       22.39
Project Base Cost                    4.22     12.09   16.31   5.28      13.10   18.38   6.00       12.93   18.93   6.17        7.78    13.95   6.16       2.23      8.39      27.83   48.13      75.96
Contingencies
Physical                                  0.22      0.91    1.13   0.26        1.11    1.37   0.27        1.13     1.40   0.15       0.65     0.80     -        -         -         0.90     3.80      4.70
Price                                     0.55      1.62    2.17   1.15        2.97    4.12   1.83        4.22    6.05    2.40       3.26     5.66   2.95      1.05      4.00       8.88    13.12     22.00
Subtotal                             0.77      2.53    3.30   1.41       4.08    5.49   2.10        5.35    7.45   2.55        3.91     6.46   2.95       1.05     4.00       9.78    16.92      26.70
Total Project Cost                   4.99     14.62   19.61   6.69      17.18   23.87   8.10       18.28   26.38   8.72       11.69   20.41   9.11        3.28     12.39     37.61    65.05    102.66



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phased Sunanary of Project Costs
(YRls Million)
Soulthern Uplands Regional Research Center
Year I                    Year 2                     Year 3                     Year 4                     Year 5                         Total
Local  Forein  Total   Local  Fr             Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total             Local  Foreign  Total
Development Cost
Civil Works                                                  -        -
Vehicles & Farm Equlipment                0.02    0.15    0.17       0.02    0.17    0.19    0.02    0.15    0.17          0.02    0.11      0.13                        -         0.08     0.58      0.66
General Furniture & Equipment                            -                     -
laboratory Furniture & Equipment           -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Library & Documentation Services                         -            -                 -
Research Farm Development                                         -                     -        -            -             -                                                                - 
Subtotal Base Cost                  0.02    0.15    0.17       0.02    0.17      0.19    0.02      0.15    0.17      0.02     0.11     0.13      -        -        -         0.08     0.58      0.66
Physical Contingencies                     -       0.02     0.02      -       0.02    0.02       -       0.02     0.02      -       0.01     0.01      -        -        -          -       0.07      0.07
Price Contingencies                        -       0.02    0.02       -       0.04    0.04    0.01    0.05    0.06    0.01    0.05    0.06              0       -        -          .02    0.16       0.18
Subtotal                             0.02    0.19     0.21     0.02     0.23    0.25      0.03     0.22    0.25      0.03     0.17     0.20      -        -        -         0.10     0.81      0.91
Technical Assistance Cost
International Staff
Long Term                               0.09    0.72    0.81       0.09    0.72    0.81    0.09       0.72    0.81           -                         _                        0.27    2.16        2.43
Short Term                                   -        -        -        -             -       -        -        -        -        -        -         -                      -             -          -
Fellowships
Long Tern                                -       0.23    0.23       -       0.35    0.35       -      0.29    0.29       -       0.18    0.18        -       0.18     0.18                1.23      1.23
Short Term                               -        -        -        -        -        -                -        -         -       -        -        -         -        -                  -          -
Other Technical Assistance                                            -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -                                  -         -        -           -
Subtotal Base Cost                   0.09    0.95     1.04     0.09     1.07     1.16    0.09      1.01     1.10      -       0.18     0.18      -       0.18     0.18       0.27     3.39      3.66
Price Contingencies                       0.01    0.12    0.13    0.02    0.22    0.24    0.03    0.30    0.33              -      0.07    0.07        -       0.08    0.08       0.06    0.79        0.85
Subtotal                            0.10    1.07      1.17    0.11      1.29     1.40    0.12      1.31     1.43      -       0.25     0.25       -      0.26     0.26       0.33    4.18       4.51
Incremental Operational Cost
Salaries, Wages & Benefits                0.30      -       0.30    0.57       -       0.57    0.81       -      0.81      0.99      -       0.99     1.17      -       1.17      3.84       -        3.84
Other Operating Costs                     0.10      -       0.10    0.19       -       0.19    0.28       -      0.28    0.34        -       0.34     0.40      -       0.40      1.31       -        1.31
Su.btotal Base Cost                 0.40      -       0.40     0.76      -       0.76     1.09      -       1.09     1.33      -       1.33     1.57      -       1.57       5.15      -        5.15
Price Contingencies                       0.05      -       0.05    0.16       -       0.16    0.32       -      0.32      0.51      -       0.51     0.75      -       0.75      1.79      -         1.79
Subtotal                            0.45     _        0.45    0.92       _       0.92    1.41       _       1.41     1.84      -       1.84     2.32      -       2.32      6.94       _        6.94
Project Base Cost                    0.51    1.10    1.61      0.87     1.24    2.11      1.20    1.16      2.36     1.35     0.29     1.64     1.57     0.18    1.75        5.50     3.97      9.47
CoE2tngencies
Physical                                   -       0.02     0.02      -       0.02    0.02       -      0.02     0.02       -      0.01      0.01      -        -        -         -       0.07      0.07
Price                                     0.06    0.14      0.20    0.18    0.26    0.44        0.36    0.35    0.71      0.52     0.12     0.64    (1.75      0.08    0.83       1.87     0.95      2.82
Sulbtotal                           0.06    0.16      0.22    0.16      0.28    0.46    0.36    0.32        0.73     0.52    0.13    0.65    0.25        0.08     0.83      1.87     1.02       2.89
Total Projo> t Cost                  0.57    1.26     1.83     1.05     1.52    2.57      1.56     1.53     3.09     1.87     0.42     2.29     2.32     0.26     2.58      7.37    4.99       12.36



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phased Summary of Project Costs
(YRls Million)
Tropical Lowlands Regional Research Center
Year I                    Year 2                    Year 3                     Year 4                    Year 5                        Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total                  Local  Foreign  Total
Development Cost
Civil Works                              0.34    2.21    2.55    0.41    2.66    3.07    0.41          2.65    3.06    0.20      1.33     1.53      -        _                   1.36    8.85   10.21
Vehicles & Farm Equipment                0.05    0.38    0.43    0.06    0.44    0.50    0.05    0.38    0.43    0.04    0.30    0.34                        -        -          0.20    1.50    1.70
General Furniture & Equipment            0.12    0.08    0.20    0.14    0.11    0.25    0.17    0.13    0.30    0.15    0.10    0.25               _        _                   0.58    0.42    1.00
Laboratory Furniture 6 Equipment          -       0.01    0.01       -       0.06    0.06      -       0.09    0.09       -      0.11    0.11            -            -           -       0.27    0.27
Library & Documentation Services          -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        _        _        _
Research Farm Development                0.05    0.01    0.06    0.05    0.01    0.06    0.08    0.01    0.09    0.04             -       0.04                         _         0.22    0.03    0.2S
Subtotal Base Cost                  0.56    2.69    3.25    0.66    3.28    3.94    0.71          3.26    3.97    0.43      1.84    2.27       -       _                   2.36   11.07   13.43
Physical Contingencies                   0.08    0.38    0.46    0.09    0.46    0.55    0.10    0,46    0.56    0.06    0.25    0.31               -        -        -          0.33    1.55      1.88
Price Contingencies                      0.08    0.38    0.46    0.15    0.78    0.93    0.24    1.12    1.36    0.19    0.81             1.00       _       -        -          0.66    3.09    3.7S
Subtotal                            0.72    3.45    4.17    0.90    4.52    5.42    1.05    4.84    5.89    0.68    2.90    3.58                   -             -         3.35   15.71   19.06
Technical Assistance Cost
International Staff
Long Term                              0.09    0.72    0.81       0.09    0.72    0.81      0.09    0.72    0.81       -        -        -        -        -        -          0.77     2.16    2.43
Short Term                              -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -                                                                 -        -        -
Fellowships
Long Term                               -       0.23    0.23       -      0.59    0.59       -       0.41    0.41      -       0.35    0.35       -       0.12    0.12          -       1.70    1.70
Short Term                                       -        -        -       -        -        -                -             -        -                -        -          -         -             -
Other Technical Assistance                 -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -       _        -        _        _
Subtotal Base Cost                  0.09    0.95    1.04    0.09    1.31    1.40    0.09         1.13    1.22       -       0.35    0.35       -       0.12    0.12        0.27     3.86    4.11
Price Contingencies                      0.01    0.12    0.13    0.02    0.27    0.29    0.03    0.34    0.37             _      0.14    0.14       -       0.06    0.06         0.06    0.93    0.99
Subtotal                            0.10    1.07    1.17    0.11       1.58    1.69    0.12    1.47    1.59         -       0.49    0.49       -       0.18    0.18        0.33    4.79      5.12
Incremental Operational Cost
Salaries, Wages & Benefits               0.42      -       0.42     0.05      -      0.05    0.33       -       0.33     0.65      -      0.65     1.44      -       1.44        2.89      -       2.89
Other Operating Costs                    0.14      -       0.14    0.36       -      0.36    0.46       -       0.46    0.57       -      0.57    0.71       -       0.71        2.24      -       2.24
Subtotal Base Cost                  0.56      -      0.56    0.41       -       0.41    0.79       -      0.79     1.22      -       1.22    2.15       -       2.15       5.13      -       5.13
Price Contingencies                      0.07      -       0.07    0.08       -      0.08    0.23       -       0.23    0.47       -      0.47      1.03     -       1.03        1.88      -       1.88
Subtotal                            0.63      -      0.63    0.49       _       0.49    1.02      -       1.02     1.69      _       1.69     3.18      -       3.18       7.01      -       7.01
Project Base Cost                   1.21    3.64    4.85      1.16    4.59      5.75    1.59    4.39    5.98       1.65    2.19      3.84    2.15    0.12    2.27           7.76    14.93   22.69
Contingencies
Physical                                 0.08    0.38    0.46    0.09    0.46    0.55    0.10    0.46    0.56    0.06    0.25    0.31               -        -        -          0.33     1.55     1.88
Price                                    0.16    0.50    0.66    0.25    1.05    1.30    0.50    1.46    1.96    0.66    0.95              1.61     1.03    0.06     1.09        2.60    4.02    6.62
Subtotal                            0.24    0.88    1.12    0.34    1.51    1.85    0.60    1.92    2.52    0.72    1.20    1.92              1.03    0.06      1.09       7.93     5.57    8.50
Total Project Cost                  1.45    4.52    5.97      1.50    6.10    7.60    2.19    6.31    8.50         2.37     3.39     5.76     3.18    0.18      3.36      10.69   20.50   31.19



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement
Fiscal Year                    Cumulative Disbursement to End of Quarter
and Quarter                               IDA           Co-financiers
---------( U  million equivalent)--------
1982/3
March 31, 1983                            0.5*                 0.5
June 30, 1983                             0.7                  1.0
1983/4
September 30, 1983                        1.0                  1.6
December 31, 1983                         1.2                  2.2
March 31, 1984                            1.4                  2.8
June 30, 1984                             1.7                  3.5
1984/5
September 30, 1984                        1.9                  4.3
December 31, 1984                         2.3                  5.2
March 31, 1985                            2.6                  6.2
June 30, 1985                             3.0                  7.3
1985/6
September 30, 1985                        3.4                  8.7
December 31, 1985                         3.8                 10.7
March 31, 1986                            4.3                 11.5
June 30, 1986                             4.8                 12.5
1986/7
September 30, 1986                        5.3                 13.3
December 31, 1986                         5.5                 13.7
March 31, 1987                            5.6                 14.0
June 30, 1987                             5.8                 14.2
1987/8
September 30, 1987                        5.9                 14.4
December 31, 1987                         6.0                 14.7
* Project Preparation Facility of US$0.4 million for expenditures
incurred before credit effectiveness.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Powers and Responsibilities for Agricultural Research
and Development Authority (ARDA)
I. LOCATION
The Headquarters of ARDA shall be located in the Central Highlands with
Regional Agricultural Research Centers and other branches in the major
agroecological regions of the country.
II. PURPOSE
The functions of ARDA shall be:
(a) to establish priorities and conduct applied scientific, technical,
economic and sociological research in YAR with respect to the
production, utilization and processing of all major agricultural
commodities in the various agroecological regions of the country;
(b) to serve as a center for the collection and dissemination of
information and advice on scientific, technical and economic
matters concerning agricultural development to extension workers
and farmers including the publication of reports, periodicals and
papers relating thereto;
(c) to act as a center for training of research and extension
personnel to service the agricultural sector;
(d) to provide grants in aid for the purpose of applied scientific,
technical and economic research concerning agricultural
development;
(e) to approve and coordinate the research of either organizations,
indigenous and foreign, which are engaged in scientific,
technical, economic and sociological research concerning the
agricultural sector; and
(f) notwithstanding the financial sources as a result of which any
research is carried out or any program is undertaken by ARDA, the
results of such research or program shall be in the public domain.



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
III. BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1. For the purpose of overall administration of ARDA, there is hereby
established The Agricultural Research and Development Authority
Board, hereinafter called "the Board," which shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession, and may sue and be sued in its
name, and may, subject to and for the purpose of this law, enter
into contracts and shall have power to acquire and hold property,
movable and immovable, and to dispose thereof or otherwise dea]L
therewith.
2.  The Board shall consist of the following members:
(a) The Chairman, to be the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries;
(b) The Director General of ARDA as General Secretary and Acting
Chairman in the absence of the Chairman;
(c) One senior research scientist nominated by the Director
General of ARDA;
(d) Representative of the Central Planning Organization;
(e) Representative of TDA;
(f) Representative of the Ministry of Finance;
(g) Representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries;
and
(h) The Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of
Sanaa when it shall be established.
Representatives of organizations outside of ARDA will be of the
minimum level of Director General.
3.  Without prejudice to paragraph I above, the Board shall have, in
addition, the following functions:
(a) to formulate national agricultural research policies;
(b) to review and approve priorities for the research and
development programs of ARDA as submitted by the Director
General;
(c) to approve the procedure with respect to appointments,
promotions and termination of appointments of employees,



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
contractors and outside experts of ARDA as recommended by the
Director General of ARDA;
(d) to approve the annual budget or estimates of expenditures with
respect to the administration and operation of ARDA as
submitted by the Director General; and
(e) to authorize sale by ARDA of depreciated assets and land.
4.  The Board shall meet at least once a year.  Minutes shall be kept
of all proceedings of the Board, and copies thereof shall be
submitted to the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries.
5.  The Board may appoint any Committee or Committees as it thinks fit.
6.  The Board may require any person to submit information which, in
the opinion of the Board, is necessary for the discharge of its
functions under its charter.
7.  Board decisions shall be decided by a majority of the votes of the
members making up a quorum. There will be deemed to be a quorum
whenever five members are present. In case of a tie vote, the side
with which the Chairman has voted shall be favored.
8.  The Board shall act on the appointment of the Deputy Director
General for Research, the Deputy Director General for
Administration and the Regional Directors nominated by the Director
General. The Board shall act on the nomination of the members of
the National Agricultural Research Council as submitted by the
Director General of ARDA.
9.  The Board, may, subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance,
from time to time borrow or secure the payment of any money
required by it for the proper carrying out of its functions.
10. No member of the Board shall incur any personal liability for any
loans or damage caused by any act or omission in the management or
conduct of the affairs of the Board unless such loss or damage is
occasioned by an intentionally wrongful act or omission on his part.
11. The Board may, in respect of (a) and (b) listed below subject to
the concurrence of the Minister of Finance, make rules for all or
any of the following matters:
(a) the determination of salary scales and terms and conditions of
employment of the officers and contractees of ARDA including
the provisions of loans to such officers and servants;



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
(b) the establishment and management of a contributory provident
fund for the staff of ARDA or for payment of pensions,
allowances or gratuities to the staff on retirement or
otherwise ceasing to hold office; and
(c) require ARDA to establish principles and procedures for the
evaluation of the capability and performance of the
professional staff.
IV. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (NARC)
1. The purpose of NARC shall be;
(a) to establish priorities in agricultural research to be carried
out by ARDA;
(b) to review and approve experimental research programs as
submitted by the research staff of ARDA;
(c) to formulate the multidisciplinary teams to carry out
commodity-oriented research programs;
(d) to review and coordinate all research programs being carried
out in YAR outside ARDA;
(e) to review training requirements for ARDA and approve
nominations for those to be trained locally and abroad;
(f) to review and recommend to the Board for approval additional
permanent activities, facilities and locations for
implementation of the agricultural research needs of the
country; and
(g) to select participants to attend seminars, conferences,
workshops and scientific visits in or out of the country.
2. NARC shall consist of:
(a) The Director General of ARDA as Chairman;
(b) The ARDA Deputy Director General for Research as Vice Chairman
of NARC;
(c) The Deputy Director General for Administration;
(d) Directors of Regional Research Centers of ARDA;
(e) Commodity Research Coordinators;



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
(f) Representatives of organizations outside of ARDA conducting
agricultural research in the country; and
(g) Representative of the Extension Service.
3. NARC shall meet at least foulr times annually.
V. OPERATIONS
Management
1. ARDA shall have a Director General who will be responsible for the
operation and administration of ARDA. The Director General will be
appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries for a period
of five years and shall be eligible for reappointment.
2. A Deputy Director General for Research, a Deputy Director General
for Administration and Regional Directors shall be nominated by the
Director General and approved by the Board. Each will be appointed
for a period of three years and shall be eligible for reappointment.
Management Qualifications
3. The Director General shall be an experienced senior agricultural
scientist, preferably with a Ph.D. degree and a minimum of 10 years
total experience, or a minimum of 12 years total experience with an
M.S. degree in agricultural research and administration. He shall
be assisted by the Deputy Directors General and Directors of the
Regional Research Centers in the carrying out of his
responsibilities and duties related to the administrative and
technical functions of ARDA.
4. The Deputy Director General for Research shall have as a minimum an
M.S. degree and at least eight years total experience in
agricultural research. The Deputy Director General for
Administration shall have as a minimum a B.S. degree with at least
eight years experience in research and/or administration. The
Regional Directors shall have as a minimum an M.S. degree with at
least five years total experience in the field of agricultural
research.
Research Coordination Committee (RCC)
5. The Director General, Deputy Directors General and Regional
Directors shall constitute an RCC and will meet once a month to
supervise and oversee the day-to-day operations of AkRDA. RCC will
also nominate candidates for training to be submitted to NARC for
approval.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
6.  If the Director General is absent from his office without having
appointed an acting Director General or for any reason is unable to
perform the functions of his office, or if the office of the
Director General falls vacant, the Deputy Director General of
Research will automatically become acting Director General until a
new Director General is appointed by the Minister of Agriculture
and Fisheries.
Professional Staff Qualifications
7. Professional research staff will be classified into five categories
as follows:
(a) Principal Research Officer. Ph.D. degree with a minimum of 10
years total experience or M.S. degree with a minimum of 12
years total experience in agricultural research and a major
outstanding research contribution recognized by NARC.
(b)  Senior Research Officer.  Ph.D. degree with a minimum of five
years total experience in agricultural research or M.S. degree
with eight years total experience in agricultural research.
(c)  Research Officer.  Ph.D. degree or M.S. degree with a minimum
of four years total experience or B.S. degree with a minimum
of eight years experience in agricultural research.
(d) Research Associate. M.S. degree or B.S. degree with a minimum
of four years experience in agricultural research.
(e) Research Assistant. B.S. degree.
8. Advancement from one category of professional research staff to
another shall be approved by the RCC.
VI. FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
1. Funds for ARDA's operations will be derived from the following
sources;
(a) Government appropriations;
(b) Monies from credits, contributions, endowments, gifts, loans,
grants, bequests or other sources as may be made to or in
favor of ARDA;
(c) Special cesses on exported agricultural commodities; and



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
(d) Monies received from (i) services rendered by ARDA; (ii) sale
of surplus agricultural products resulting from agricultural
research; (iii) sale of capital assets whether partially or
fully depreciated; and (iv) sale or rent of land.
2. The Board shall cause ARDA to maintain a true and proper account of
its Annual Budget and shall, as soon as possible after December 31
of each year, and not later than June 30, issue a report of the
budget, together with a balance sheet and an account of income and
expenditure during the preceding year, calculated from January 1 to
December 31.
3. The annual balance sheet, income and expenditure of ARDA shall,
prior to the issue thereof, be audited by such auditor or auditors
as the Board may, with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance,
appoint.
4. The Board shall within six months from the close of its financial
year:
(a)  transmit to the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries and the
Minister of Finance each a copy of the annual accounts
certified by the auditor; and
(b)  transmit to the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries and the
Minister of Finance each a report by the Board on the
activities of ARDA throughout the year, and such report shall
be published by the Board.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
CHART 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AUTHORITY
M OBOARD OF DIRECTORS
MINISTRY OF.
AGRICULTURE                                            CHAIRMAN
NATIONAL                                                          PHYSICAL
AGRICULTURAL                    DIRECTOR GENERAL                  IMPLEMENTATION
RESEARCH COUNCIL                                                        UNIT
RESEARCH     I
r                |  ~~~~~COOR D iNAT IN G 
I DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL I                                    | DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL
|   RESEARCH   X                                        I      ADMINISTRATION
CENTRAL SUPPORT SERVICES
ECONOMIS         PLANT    |SOIL, WATER,        TRAINING,          ACCOUNTS         BUDGET        PERSONNEL       STORES
ECONOMICS  PROTECTION I LAND  COMMUNICATIONS         AUDIT              E                        _      -
REGIONAL RESEARCH CENTERS
SOUTHEN U                  CENTRAL HIGHLANDS           TROPICAL LOWLANDS
DIRECTOR                   DIRECTOR      I                 CT
|COMMODITY COORDINAT0ORS|
CEREALS AND         VEGETABLES           FRUITS AND      II LIVESTOCK AND           FORESTRY            INDUSTRIAL
FEED LEGUMES      AND FOOD LEGUMES IL    TREETCROPS    I|WANGE MANAGEBEN|                                          2 3ROPS 4



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMIPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PRE-PROJECT      PY-1         PY-2          PY-3          PY-4          PY-5
PURCHASE OF LAND
PPF FINANCED PHYSICAL PLANNING
CONTRACTING OF ARCHITECT AND
ENGINEERING FIRM
CONTRACTING OF PHYSICAL
IMPLEMENTATION CONSULTANT
AND VISISTS                       _            _
SELECTION OF FELLOWS FOR
TRAINING ABROAD
ESTABLISHMENT OF PHYSICAL
IMPLEMENTATION UNIT                _
CONTRACT OF TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE FIRM                            -
PREQUALIFICATION OF CONTRACTORS
PREPARATION OF TENDER DOCUMENTS
TENDERING OF MAIN LABORATORIES                                                                                                 tn
AND OFFICES
CONSTRUCTION DEVELOPMENT PERIOD
INVESTMENT PLAN PREPARATION
AND REVIEW                               _             _            _                           m
SUBMISSION OF INVESTMENT PLAN
TO IDA                                     _             _
PURCHASE OF VEHICLES AND
EQUIPMENT
IDA SUPERVISION MISSION                        _       _             _
EXTERNAL PROJECT EVALUATION
AND RECOMMENDATIONS
RESEARCH PLANS AND PROGRESS
REPORT                                                _     _                                                -
SUBMISSION OF AUDITORS REPORT
TO IDA                                                _                          - _
World Bank-23492



- 56 -
ANNEX 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports
1. Agricultural Sector Memorandum, June 26, 1979; IBRD Report No.
2582-YAR.
2. Review of Agricultural Project Priorities, 29 October 1980; FAO/WB/CP
Report No. 51/80YARIO, Main Report (Vol. I) and Annexes 1-4 (Vol. II).
3. Development of a Traditional Economy, December 14, 1978; IBRD Report
No. 2057a-YAR, Main Report (Vol. I) and Annexes and Statistical
Appendix (Vol. II).
4. Agricultural Sector: Performance, Strategy and Options, November 17,
1981, Consultants Report for IBRD/UNDP.
5.  Agricultural Research:  Sector Policy Paper, June 1981, IBRD Report.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Agricultural Research Service-YAR; Quarterly Reports, 1979 and 1980;
Annual Reports, 1979 and 1980; and Semiannual Report, January-
June 1981.
2. Agricultural Research Service-YAR; various technical bulletins.
3. Agricultural Research Service-UNDP; Summary of Project Activities,
Semiannual, 1979, 1980 and 1981.
4. Report of National Agricultural Research Program, Phase III, Projec:t
Preparation Mission; IRI Research Institute, August 1981, plus
Supplemental Information Volume.
C. Working Papers
1. Description of Project Works and Cost Tables
2. List of Possible Importations
3. Proposed Alternate Salary Scheme
4. Terms of Reference for Architect-Engineer Consulting Firm.
5. Terms of Reference for Consulting Firm and International Staff.



IBRD 1618lRl
r RAC    >.PN,,_ ,.
3,   'SA//4Ab   A_,j.-KJAAII    SA                                                             YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
SZJN  APAAIA 1's<"AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
5AUD AbABIA  ,OArAE                        ~~SAUDI ARABiA                                                                  A 
AttAtA                                                                                  ~~~~~~~AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
!'  ^'~I/fuDe2''   |  /        a              /   ,r-                            REGIONAL AGRICULTURAl RESEARCH CENTERS 
AA 0IBDT B/tO A                                                                                      o'D A/  A                                             TEALA    T_L  A    LC A
o  zIEA >  ,    f    , 0D|Eai  h                                                   E.l oAt AALSAAFAA- .ES
17.1.1 A' 'I 0 -Al A S(                                                                                                                     *       A
/                         LU/-/SA ON I 5
HooAd                                 \                                                                             A     .e   u  5
_,  (J                        ~~~~~~~~Al H.".                                                                >Tt-q I      stxA'_
HAl /oDA
)                           A
|   J        \                       90n!~~~~~~~~oo Abd\o  /        ,o& 
/Al KI-A.                           Sb              At/t A               r
-   \\       0                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hot bto  \CA-pAl4 Al4                                                              LcATh
A         A A  M.ho   t                   -                        MA/A)                             A A    t
HoI  Zd ,tAR  Sgho:               ;          ,5     ANAA
Al Mq/qB    ,At T_p -. I A:gcrAl  A ',
AMOA,DA  \t            Ad0 AS3       -           C            ---
A  Azd-   T,           A A                                 A                    H
Dh~ ~ ~~~~~A 
Idd _<  Soaot      MopokhoA         -
Al                        l GA/AD  S  R ,b
,odoD~        rI Mu o  vh                               M \  _ At                                 H(f
rAY,tAS T-YAt DtA/                                                       -
14'                               A c d_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    -
r-,.,; ~ ~ ~ ~~~~A   (.. bAAt elFoqlh                                     ,o)               IloOo Alqi 
.Yad.  r                        '~~~~~~~BLA*  ,3A)\,
At~~ ~ ~                               YqoAt   mA /lt/AA/   AAttO
PEOPLES DH                  T   RP             OFY A   ME
ETH                                                                   IAt           lb P/AAA0
14'                                          A 6'dor         IbbBr u onU,TI  u/_
\       X    Af ]LU  AA  *AI QAtAh         d
-                                  49 NES6                  _             <t pDoo PAEAPLt'S DE,MOCPATIC REPU3LiC. OP YEMtN
I     At A/LA/A
AttA MAAo-AAT bh 
ETHIOPIA                                            /-                                                , --        -!
t        //\,    ,/'/                     --'~~~--A
] / ~~DJIBOUTI
*1                                                                                                  ttA/0toO,AO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAAA/A/o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zuw9      Atg.tAt  v0vd SMVf   t
}  /                                       Q4 a                                                          s  Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADtA/oAt/S '00  A/A /tA






