Report No 466a-TA                                                    FILE  COPY
Appraisal of the                                                       CIRCULATING COPY
KilomberO Sugar Project   TBE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
T  RETURN TO
July 30,1974                                                     REPORTS DHIN
General Agriculture Division                                            W1THIN
Eastern Africa Region                                                ONE  W  E K'R          L
Not f or Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. Io m not bea  r    Sponshed Y
quoted or cited without Benk Group authorization The Bank Group does not accept rep
for the accuracY Or cOmpleteness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00               =  Tanzania Shilling (Tsh) 7.14
US$1.00               =  Dutch Guilders (f) 2.8
US$1.00               =  Danish Kroner (DKr) 6.00
1 DKr                 = Tsh 1.2
1 f                   =  Tsh 2.6
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Note: Tanzania is gradually moving over to metric units of
measurement. In the 5-year transition both metric and imperial
units are used. In this report the measures used by Tanzania
in drawing up the Kilombero Sugar Project have been retained.
Metric measures used are:
1 kilogram (kg)       =  2.2 lb
1 metric ton (m ton)
= 1 ,000 kg       =  2,204.6 lb  = 0.98 long ton
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.62 mile
1 millimeter (mm)     =  0.039 inch
1 liter (1)           = 0.204 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
CPM     a  Critical Path Method
EAAFRO  =  East African Agricultural and Forestry Research
Organization
GEFCO   =  General Foods Company
HVA     =  H.V.A. International b.v. (Amsterdam)
K I     =  Existing Kilombero Sugar Company factory and estate
K II    =  Project factory and estate
KDDC    =  Kilosa District Development Corporation
KILIMO  = Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
KSC     =  Kilombero Sugar Company Ltd.
NAFCO   =  National Agricultural and Food Corporation
NSB     =  National Sugar Board
SDC     =  Sugar Development Corporation
TAC     =  Tanzania Audit Corporation
TCD     =  (Metric) Tons of Cane per Day
TPC     =  Tanganyika Planting Company Ltd.
TRDB    =  Tanzania Rural Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
KSC          May 1 to April 30
Government   July 1 to June 30
MILLING SEASON
Approximately June 1 to December 20 (200 days)



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...................... i - iii
I.  INTRODUCTION   ........        .....  ...........   1
II.  BACKGROUND .... ............  .........   2
A.  Agriculture in the Economy of Tanzania .......  2
B.  The Sugar Industry ..r........u r................  3
III.  THE PROJECT AREA ...... ...........................   5
IV.  THE PROJECT .......   ...............................  7
A. General Description            . . ..   7
B.  Detailed Features ....   .......................  8
C. Project Costs .   .............................  13
D.  Financing .................................. ..  15
E. Procurement ......... O-**. ....................  16
F. Disbursement ..t. . . .     . .       * . . . . .   .... 17
G. Accounts and Audit Procedures ... ............. 17
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....    ................. 18
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ...... 20
VII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....  .......... 23
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMM¢NDATION   ............ 24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Tanzania
in November/December 1973 composed of Messrs. J.H. Cleave, H. Malik (part-
time), (IDA); J. Duyverman, T.G. Haworth and H. Idehara (Consultants);
and accompanied by R. Stern -(Loan Officer).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Kilombero Sugar Company Ltd. (KSC)
Table 1 - Operating Results Since Incorporation
Table 2 - Balance Sheets, 1970-1973
2.   Current Price Formula for Sugar (set February, 1974)
3.   Supply and Demand Projections
Table 1 - Estimated Population, per Capita and Total Sugar
Requirement and Production
Table 2 - Estimated Sugar Production
4.   Rainfall in mm, Period May 1961 - April 1973
5.   Land Development and Cane Production
Table 1 - K II: New Land Development Schedule
Table 2 - K II: Cane Production Schedule (at Average Yields)
6.   Outgrowers Development and Returns
Table 1 - Outgrowers Development Schedule
Table 2 - Labor Requirement over a Year
Table 3 - Subsistance Rice Requirement per Family
Table 4 - Model Ujamaa Farm Budget
Table 5 - Estimated Average Costs, Yields and Cash Income
from Farmers
Table 6 - Kilosa District Development Corporation (KDDC)
Farm Budget
7.   Machinery Costs and Requirements
Table 1 - Tractor Capacities
Table 2 - Unit Cost of Tractors and Implements
Table 3 - Land Clearing, Preparation and Mechanical
Cultivation Costs
Table 4 - Estate Cropping Operations Tractor Hours
Table 5 - Estate Cropping Operations Costs in Tsh
Table 6 - Total Tractor Requirement for Caneland
Table 7 - Implements Needed for Crop Maintenance and Replanting
Preparations
Table 8 - Total Equipment, Quantities and Costs for Clearing,
Preparation, Crop Maintenance, and Harvesting
8.   Training Requirements
Table 1 - Training-Factory Staff



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tanzania's development strategy puts emphasis on increased agricul-
tural production, and aims at self-sufficiency in crops such as sugar which
can be home-grown efficiently. However, following recent increases in sugar
consumption, demand has outstripped domestic supply, thus resulting in sub-
stantial imports; in 1973 these imports had a foreign exchange cost of over
US$18.0 million. Due in part to the recent drought, imports of other food
commodities have also increased, and a combination of these and several other
factors has resulted in serious balance of trade difficulties.
ii.       The proposed Project is designed to help alleviate this situation
by providing for increased domestic production of semi-refined sugar. The
Project would include the development of a cane sugar estate and outgrowers
land, as well as the erection of a 2,400 TCD factory capable of producing
45,000 m tons of sugar a year. Also included would be provision for ancillary
facilities, training of factory and field staff, an increase in adaptive re-
search, and a survey to identify future sugar developments.
iii.      The Project would approximately double the production of the
Kilombero Sugar Company (KSC) which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the re-
cently formed, parastatal, Sugar Development Corporation (SDC) and has an
existing factory, estate and outgrowers adjacent to the Project area. About
45% of the 7,300 acres of Project estate land would be under irrigation, and
40% of total cane area would be farmed by outgrowers, comprising ujamaa vil-
lagers, a small estate owned by the local District Development Corporation,
and private growers. Overall Project execution and management would be by
KSC, with the guidance of HVA International b.v. (HVA) who have been retained
as managing agents since 1965. The factory would be supplied and erected by
a Dutch/Danish consortium under the supervision of HVA operating under a
separate contract: field development, including outgrowers' land, would be
by KSC. Although the existing factory and estate (K I) and the new develop-
ment (K II) would operate as entities, they would share experienced senior
management, factory, and agricultural personnel.
iv.       External financing of the Project would be in parallel by the Bank
Group and by Danish and Dutch bilateral aid funds, together accounting for
84% of the total cost of US$55.8 million. It is proposed that Bank Group
funds, consisting of an IDA Credit of US$9.00 million and a Bank Loan of
US$9.00 million, would finance Part I of the Project; this would comprise
land development (estate and outgrowers), non-factory ancillaries including
community facilities, and the training, research and survey components. The
Credit and Loan would represent 78% of Part I costs. Bilateral aid funds
would be committed to Part II of the Project comprising the factory and its
ancillaries, and supervision of construction, and would represent 86% of
Part II costs. The proposed Credit would be on standard terms to Government



- ii -
and the Loan would be for 25 years including 5 years of grace. The Dutch loan
would be on the same terms as the IDA Credit, and the interest free Danish
loans would be part repayable over 25 years with 7 years grace, and part over
35 years with 10 years grace. Bank Group funds except for the cost of the
sugar survey which would be a grant to SDC would be onlent to KSC at 9% per
annum. Bilateral aid funds covering Part II of the Project would be passed
to KSC through SDC in such a way that not less than 30% nor more than 50% of
the proceeds would represent an equity contribution.
v.        Equipment in Part I of the Project, mostly for land development,
irrigation and cane transport (about US$9.0 million) would be procured by
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
In evaluation of bids local manufacturers would be allowed a 15% preference,
or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is the lower, and bulked
orders of less than US$30,000 would be procured in accordance with Govern-
ment procedures. The survey would be by consultants chosen in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. Civil works construction (totalling about
US$2.0 million), would be subject to international competitive bidding with
local firms given a 7-1/2% preference in assessed bids over any foreign con-
tractors bidding. KSC would undertake land preparation, and road and rail
bed construction. East African Railways would procure and lay rail-line
under their standard procedure.
vi.       By 1980 the Project would result in incremental annual sugar pro-
duction of 45,000 m tons, as well as 16,000 m tons of molasses; together
these would be worth nearly US$17.0 million at 1974 values. The annual net
saving or foreign exchange earnings would be nearly US$14.0 million. Per
capita net incomes of outgrowers in ujamaa villages would increase from
present levels of about US$40 c:o over US$140 after the seventh year when all
development charges would have been met.
vii.      In order to recover costs and give an acceptable return on capital
employed, it would be necessary to increase the KSC sugar price. At present
costs, the price would increase from the current price of Tsh 1,080 per m ton
to over Tsh 1,450; this would compare with a 1980 import substitution projected
price of Tsh 1,765 per m ton.
viii.     The internal economic rate of return of the Project is estimated
at 13% over twenty years. In this calculation all costs are included and
foreign exchange costs and benefits are shadow priced at 140% of the offi-
cial exchange rate. Without shadow pricing the return would be about 11%.
A delay of one year in bringing the sugar factory into operation would only
reduce returns by 2%, largely because the existing factory could handle much
of the excess cane. A drop in sugar prices of 20% below forecast would re-
duce the return to 7% but prices 20% above forecast would raise the return
to 18%.



- iii -
ix.       Six IDA credits and one Bank loan totalling US$83.1 million have
previously been approved for Tanzania agricultural projects in agricultural
credit, livestock (2), tobacco, tea, cotton and cashew. In addition an
Education Credit provided US$3.3 million for agricultural education, and
part of a US$6.0 million Credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank is for agri-
cultural development. Performance on projects has been mixed, with problems
particularly arising in management and the rate of participation of farmers.
x.        The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit and a Bank Loan each of
US$9.0 million to the Government of Tanzania.






TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Increased agricultural production and development of rural areas
are given great emphasis in the Tanzania Second Five-Year Plan now in its
final year. Crop priorities are set, based on production possibilities,
market prospects and a goal of country self-sufficiency. Production is
variously organized, but because of the country's socialist philosophy,
private estates and individual farming are being discouraged in favor of
production by subsidiary companies of parastatal organizations, by state
farms, through local District Development Corporations and at the smallholder
level, through ujamaa villages. One of the crops set for self-sufficiency
is sugar. Projected production increases for sugar have not been achieved,
and domestic demand has increased beyond anticipated levels; the increased
demand has been largely due to increased per capita consumption, although
this is still low by international standards, however. This has led to sub-
stantial sugar imports reaching a foreign exchange cost of US$18 million
in 1973. In view of the recent deterioration in Tanzania's balance of pay-
ments - in which increasing food imports, partly caused by the recent drought,
have been a significant factor - import substitution, where practicable, has
become even more imperative.
1.02      The proposed Project is the most advanced of four sugar develop-
ments planned by Tanzania and which, in combination, could help the country
achieve self-sufficiency in sugar by 1977. By 1980 (its 6th year), the
Project would result in incremental sugar production of 45,000 m tons, thus
leading to foreign exchange savings of about US$14 million a year. The
increase would represent 43% on present production, and is nearly one-third
of projected expansion by 1980.
1.03      Six IDA Credits and one Bank Loan totalling US$83.1 million have
been approved so far for agricultural projects in Tanzania. These comprise
one for agricultural credit, two for livestock, and one each for tobacco,
tea, cotton and cashew. In addition, an Education Credit in 1971 provided
US$3.3 million for agricultural training, and part of a 1974 Credit of US$6.0
million to the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) is for agricultural purposes.
Progress in implementing these projects has been mixed. The agricultural
credit project has been fully disbursed: it experienced difficulties due to
the weakness of the credit institution - now the Tanzania Rural Development
Bank (TRDB) - which has since been reorganized. Although the project is now
operating well, its recovery rate remains disappointing. The first livestock
project has been completed successfully and the second project has only re-
cently become effective. The development of the tobacco project has been
slower than expected mainly due to inadequate services (principally water)
in the new settlement areas and pressure to cultivate collectively. The
project has been rephased, a better water system provided, and most project
farmers are being allowed to farm individual tobacco plots within ujamaa



villages. The smallholder tea project is also facing problems with farmer
recruitment, and the planting program is two years behind schedule. Weak
management and other difficulties have slowed progress, and it is expected
that the project will be rephased. Construction under the agricultural train-
ing program is not now expected to be completed on schedule due to delays in
tender procedures; however, all contracts for construction of various insti-
tutions have been awarded. The cotton project only became effective in April
1974. The Kigoma Rural Development Project is scheduled for Board presentation
on August 6, 1974.
1.04      The application to the Bank Group was prepared on behalf of the
Government of Tanzania by HVA International with assistance from the Regional
Mission in East Africa (RMEA). This report is based on the findings of an
appraisal mission to Tanzania in November/December 1973 composed of Messrs.
J.H. Cleave, H. Malik (part-time), (IDA); J. Duyverman, T.G. Haworth and
H. Idehara (Consultants); and accompanied by R. Stern (Loan Officer).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Agriculture in the Economy of Tanzania
2.01      With a per capita income of only US$110 Tanzania is one of the
world's poorest countries, but one which is making determined efforts to
develop as a self-reliant society. Of the total population, estimated in
1973 at 14 million, about 90% are dependent on agriculture for their living.
The population is growing at about 2.8% a year, but with the exczeption of
a few areas where soils and climate are particularly favorable, there is
little land pressure and the overall density is under 15 per km2. Agri-
culture contributes 80% of commodity exports and 40% of total GDP, but in
the period 1968-1972 has had a disappointing real growth rate of 2.4% which
can be attributed to a combination of poor commodity prices and low invest-
ment in farming. There are only limited prospects for non-agricultural
exports or import substitution developments and with agricultural exports
sluggish at a time when development efforts were making major demands on
foreign exchange, the country has recently incurred a serious deficit in its
external trade balance. More recently, unexpectedly high prices for sisal,
coffee, tea and cotton improved this picture but foreign exchange resources
were drained in 1973 by imports of other foods including sugar (US$18.0
million) and maize and wheat (each about IJS$5.0 million).
2.02      Tanzania's development policy aims at reducing inequalities in in-
come distribution through State control or ownership of important industries,
services, and large-scale agricultural enterprises, and through emphasis on
a communal smallholder agriculture within the framework of the ujamaa village
(para. 3.06) in wlich families group themselves to receive increased levels
of Government services. Major responsibility for many development programs



- 3 -
has been decentralized to the 18 Regions of the country and within these to
63 Districts; nationalized enterprises are typically run as subsidiary and
associate companies of parastatal organizations.
B. The Sugar Industry
Production Units
2.03      Tanzania's sugar is grown by four estates, all small by interna-
tional standards: the Tanganyika Planting Co. (TPC), at Arusha Chini; Kagera
Sugar Co. Ltd. in West Lake District; Mtibwa Sugar Estates in Morogoro Dis-
trict; and Kilombero Sugar Campany (KSC), in the Kilombero Valley. TPC, op-
erating since 1936 and still privately owned by Danish interests, is respon-
sible for over half the country's production. All cane is irrigated, mostly
estate grown, and a long milling season helps make this the most efficient
plant in Tanzania. Plans call for a 60% expansion in production by 1978.
Kagera, formerly a private estate and factory which opened in 1958, is prin-
cipally growing rainfed cane. Government has recently acquired a 70% in-
terest and is planning participation in a factory expansion, to start up in
1978, and scheduled to exceed 60,000 m ton/sugar a year by 1983. Current
production is 8% of the national total. Mtibwa, privately built in 1960/61,
is now an associate company of the Sugar Development Corporation (SDC) (para.
2.05) which holds 50% of the capital: the balance is private. Cane is supplied
by both estate and outgrowers. The factory supplies about 7,000 tons (6%
of production), but this is planned to expand to nearly 50,000 m tons by 1985.
Kilombero Sugar Company (KSC)
2.04      KSC is the newest of Tanzania's sugar plants, first producing in
1962. The principal investors, including IFC, sold out to Goverrnent in
1969, following a move by Government to reduce the assured ex-factory price
of sugar from a level which it regarded as including a subsidy to KSC. The
company had, in fact, experienced considerable problems in its development
and earned a profit in only two of its first seven years of operation. A
previously unknown cane disorder, "yellow wilt", had depressed cane yields
and was only eradicated after drainage improvements were effected and new
cane varieties introduced. On the management side, poor cost control and
inadequate tractor maintenance were problems, but following a 1965 managing
agency agreement with HVA International (a Netherlands company), these have
been overcome. Except for a set-back in 1972 when a newly installed diffuser
led to excessive down-time, KSC has recently been operating efficiently, as
is reflected in its operating results (Annex 1).
Sugar Development Corporation (SDC)
2.05      A Sugar Development Corporation was established in February 1974 with
powers to develop the sugar industry in Tanzania; to engage in sugar growing,
processing and marketing; and to manage the affairs of any company in which it



-4-
holds a controlling interest. A General Manager was appointed on the creation
of the Corporation, but regulations governing its mode of operation are still
to be published and its staffing and structure to be decided. The Corporation
has taken over the sugar sub-department of the National Agricultural and Food
Corporation (NAFCO) from which it has also inherited investments in KSC, Mtibwa
and Kagera. It may be expected later to directly participate in marketing
and thus take over the present functions of the National Sugar Board (NSB)
and General Foods Company (GEFCO).
Marketing Organization and Price Policy
2.06      The National Sugar Board is responsible for controlling and re-
gulating the production and marketing of sugar on the Tanzania mainland, as
well as for handling imports. NSB employs GEFCO, also a parastatal agency,
as its marketing agent. For a fixed fee GEFCO distributes sugar to 132 depots
where it is sold to wholesalers - in nearly all cases Cooperative Unions -
who in turn sell to retail outlets, usually private shopkeepers.
2.07      Prices are set by Government at factory, wholesale and retail levels.
Pricing policy is flexible and more pragmatic than it was at the time IFC and
other investors relinguished their holding in KSC, and the factory price
varies according to the assessed needs of each plant. Thus, because it is
in the development stage, Mtibwa receives a higher ex-factory price than
the other producers (Annex 2) and an appropriate formula would be worked
out for KSC with the addition of the new factory and estate expansion (K
II). Uniform wholesale and retail prices are set for the depots, although
the retail selling price may be increased by the amount of transport costs
for sales away from depots. The retail price was raised 25% in June 1972
when it was discovered that at the previous level smuggling to neighboring
territories was taking place; a further 50% increase was put into effect in
March 1974 in the face of high import prices. The present price (Tsh 3.00/kg)
covers all costs of domestic production, meets the full cost of imports,
and allows for a reserve for the future development of the industry to be
built up. The varying margin between ex-factory prices and the uniform
retail price is offset by varying the per ton levy paid into a reserve held
by NSB. In April 1974 the fund was in deficit by about US$11.0 million
equivalent, as it was used to purchase imported sugar when the levies were
lower. It is however estimated that by 30 June 1974 the deficit will be
reduced to US$4.8 million. The development fund levy should at that time
total US$3.0 million.
Supply and Demand Situation
2.08      For historic reasons all four Tanzania mills produce semi-refined
sugar, a higher grade than is found in many underdeveloped countries, but for
which production costs are little different from those of "mill-white" sugar,
the less refined grade. Between 1962 and 1972 production increased from
37,000 m tons to nearly 90,000 m tons annually, but it has since stagnated



5-
around this level with existing factories operating at close to capacity.
However, consumption has increased rapidly, and in 1968 Tanzania beg,an im-
porting sugar. In 1973 it imported 50,000 m tons, or 37% of natior.al con-
sumption, at a foreign exchange cost of Tsh 131.0 million (US$18.0 million).
The increase in consumption was partly due to population growth, but there
was also an unprecedented increase in per capita consumption averaging 1 kg
or 15% per year between 1970 and 1972. This has been attributed to income
growth and its more equitable distribution, urbanization, increased industrial
use, and smuggling from Tanzania at a time of relatively low retail prices.
The high growth rate did not continue in 1973, but with per capita consumption
still only 10 kg per head a year 1/, continued growth in demand can be ex-
pected. Assuming an annual increase in per capita consumption of 0.6 kg,
and population growth continuing at 2.8%, and with this Project and other
plans for expansion effective, further sugar developments will need to be
operational by 1981 if expanded domestic demand requirements are to be met
(Annex 3).
Research
2.09      Sugar research in East Africa is coordinated by the East African
Agriculture and Forestry Research Organization (EAAFRO) which has its head-
quarters at Maguga in Kenya, the plant quarantine center.  The main EAAFRO
sugar research station, responsible for the introduction and selection of
foreign varieties and breeding of new varieties, is at Kibaha in Tanzania.
Pest control research is based in Uganda. National research is the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo) but only limited selection
and variety trial work has been carried out on its research station at
Katrin, and most applied research has been carried out on sugar estates;
even this has been inadequate in quantity and quality, however. KSC main-
tains two agronomists who run field trials including variety selection for
commercial planting under a program prepared in cooperation with HVA. This
research program and staffing should be stepped up (para. 4.13) and EAAFRO
and Kilimo urgently need to improve the coordination and output of their
work programs.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The Project area is in the Kilombero valley, in Kilosa District,
Morogoro Region. It covers some 37 square miles, located to the north of
and next to the existing Kilombero (K I) estate, which has similar topography
and climate. It is confined on the west by the Migomberama mountains, to
the south by the Great Ruaha River and the K I estate, and on the east by
Selous Game Reserve (Map). It is linked to Dar-es-Salaam by a railway and
370 km of all-weather road.
1/ Compared with annual per capita consumption in 1972 of 16.6 kg for Kenya,
14.8 kg for Uganda and over 50 kg for the U.S.A. and U.K. (Annex 3).



-6-
3.02      The mean annual rainfall is 1,550 mm, varying in 12 years from
1,050 mm to 2,480 mm. Nearly 85% of the rainfall occurs in the 6 months from
December through May (Annex 4). The area is drained by a network of small
rivers, tributaries of the Great Ruaha. Parts are subject to seasonal inunda-
tion, but this can be readily overcome by clearing existing streams and pro-
viding some additional drainage.
3.03      The Great Ruaha River would be the source of water for the factory
and for irrigation. In its upper reaches the river is used for the Kidatu
Power Project (Loan 715-TA), the reservoir for which is due to be filled in
1975. KSC has abstraction rights for 212 cusecs of water from the river, a
quantity well in excess of the needs of K I and the Project factory (K II)
combined, about 40% of the lowest recorded river flow. This quantity would
continue to be available during the filling of the reservoir and after comple-
tion of the Kidatu Project.
3.04      About 95% of the area consists of neutral sandy to loamy alluvial
soils with micas. There is a deep topsoil, rich in organic matter. It has
fair to good structure, and is equally suitable for hand or mechanical cul-
tivation. The physical and chemical properties of the soil are favorable
for cane growing, and are generally better than those in the K I area. The
Project area is covered by open low secondary forest and bush with patches
cleared for shifting cultivation. Land clearing should present no difficulties.
3.05      The sparse population in the Project area is mostly engaged in trad-
itional agriculture. Local crops are rice, cassava, maize, sweet potatoes
and beans grown for subsistence. Few farmers grow significant amounts for
sale; the only cash crop in the area is sugar cane, of which some 2,200 acres
are cultivated by outgrowers presently supplying K I. Local families also
provide labor for K I, but the skilled cane cutters tend to be seasonal
migrants especially from Nbeya District. There would be no shortage of
such labor for K II.
Ujamaa Villages
3.06      A major instrument of Government's rural development strategy is
the encouragement of production on communal lines in ujamaa villages, typ-
ically of 60-70 families. Although the objectives of the ujamaa program
are political and social, Goverment recognizes the need for the villages
to be economically viable and encourages them to participate in new market-
crop ventures.  There are already six ujamaa villages in the Kilombero valley
growing cane collectively for K I, and two of these - Kitete and Kidogobasi -
are in the Project area.  These two presently have 120 acres under cane
grown under a strict schedule laid down by KSC. They still have difficulty
keeping to harvest schedules, however, and it would be important to monitor
the capacity of the villages in their early years with the new crop and to
maintain flexibility in the outgrower development programs.



-7-
Kilosa District Development Corporation (KDDC)
3.07      The District Development Corporation (DDC) concept was launched in
the mid-1960's as the local counterpart of the centrally organized parastatals.
A DDC is a limited company and is, in effect, the commercial wing of the Dis-
trict Development and Planning Committee. Its objectives are to stimulate
commercial activity in the District by participation in viable enterprises.
KDDC was established in February 1973 with Tsh 500,000 capital. It is cur-
rently operating a petrol station and plans to take up new land in the Proj-
ect area and operate as an outgrower to the Project. In conformity with
national practice, Government would make a 25% grant contribution (about
USS197,000) towards KDDC's development expenses.
Land Tenure
3.08      Land rights in Tanzania are vested in Government.  The land required
by the Project has already been earmarked for the various categories of growers.
There are under 2,000 families in the Project area, including two small ujamaa
villages and an outgrowers sugar estate. Some families have had to move from
or within the Project area: they have resettled successfully, some joining
ujamaa villages where they will take up cane growing; others moving to the
roadside where they are trading and are a potential source of labor for K II
and KDDC. Government has paid compensation for buildings and permanent crops
to the families who have had to move.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would over five years (1974-1978) comprise two major
elements: Part I, the development of a new sugar estate and outgrowers land
adjacent to the existing Kilombero estate, which it is proposed would be
financed with assistance from the Bank Group; and Part II, the provision of
a new factory mainly financed by bilateral aid funds. By 1982 the Project
would increase the annual production of semi-refined sugar by 45,000 m tons.
4.02      Specifically Part I of the Project would comprise:
(a) Land Development:
(i)  development of a 7,300 acre sugar estate, partly
under irrigation, and provision of cultivation
equipment, roads and cane transport;
(ii)  development of 2,400 acres of new, rainfed land
for outgrowers, (comprising the Kilosa District



- 8 -
Development Corporation (KDDC) and farmers
settled in ujamaa villages); and
(iii) expansion of about 2,200 acres of existing out-
growers land for K I to replace outgrowers whose
production would be diverted to K II;
(b)  Non-factory Ancillaries:
provision of staff housing, water supply and com-
munity facilities, and a rail link;
(c) Training and Research:
(i) on-the-job and overseas training for factory and
field personnel;
(ii) provision to increase adaptive research at KSC; and
(iii) provision for the identification and preparation
of feasibility studies on further sugar developments
in Tanzania.
Part II wfould comprise:
(d)  the erection of a 2,400 TCD (tons of cane per day) sugar
factory complete with ancillaries under a fixed-price
turnkey contract; and
(e)  supervision of construction under a separate contract.
4.03      The Project would be executed by the Kilombero Sugar Company (KSC),
initially under the direction of its managing agents, H.V.A. International
b.v. (HVA) who would also undertake the construction supervision of the
factory in Part II under a second contract.
B. Detailed Features
Land Development
4.04      The Project would provide for the purchase of equipment to clear
and develop 7,300 acres of land north of the Great Ruaha River in the Kilombero
valley for a sugar estate. This equipment would also be used to develop land
for outgrowers who would, at full development, manage 4,600 acres of cane.
Most of these would be new outgrowers in the K II area where relatively thick
bush would be cleared mechanically; others, in the Msolwa area (Map), would
be outgrowers currently supplying K I. The latter would increase their acreage



-9-
to offset the transfer to K II of existing outgrowers situated in the K II
area.  In order to bring the factory to full capacity operation as quickly
as possible it is proposed that most land be cleared, prepared and planted
in three dry seasons (Annex 5).  The land development program is summarized
below (figures in acres):
Final Use             1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   Total
Nursery and
irrigated estate        100      2,700       700         -       3,500
Rainfed estate         2,060 /1    220         760       760      3,800
New outgrowers, K II      -         960        960       480      2,400
Outgrowers, K I /2       600        600        500       500    -27200
Total             2,760     4,480      2,920      1,740    11,900
/1   Of which 1,400 acres for nursery and milling cane would be
irrigated by portable pumps in the first year.
/2   Extension of existing areas, mostly hand-cleared.
Once the normal cycle was established, all cane land (estate and outgrowers)
would be cropped in a 5-year rotation comprising one year of plant-cane and
4 ratoons.
4.05      Estate.  To ensure an even supply of cane for milling, 3,260 acres
of the estate milling cane, about 45% of the total, would be put under
sprinkler irrigation. The 240 acres of nurseries would also rotate in the
irrigated area. Estate development would include building 87 km of roads
laid out on a 500 m square grid; construction of bridges and culverts; the
improvement of natural drainage; and construction of about 22 km of drains.
For the irrigation system a pressure pump station with a 1,470 1/sec. ca-
pacity would supply permanent underground mainlines feeding terminals from
which portable sprinkler lines would deliver water to the fields. A portable
sprinkler system has been operated successfully by KSC for some years.
4.06      Outgrowers (Annex 6).  Outgrowers, who would work 40% of the cane
area producing one-third of total milling cane, would consist of:
(a)  Kilosa District Development Corporation (KDDC) (1,560 acres);
(b) three ujamaa villages with a total of 240 families (960 acres);
(c) two existing estates and about 120 smallholder farmers growing
in total about 2,080 acres of cane and currently supplying the



- 10 -
K I factory. Their supplies to K I would be made up by expan-
sion of production by about 520 families and 4 small estates
in the Msolwa valley, south of the river (Map).
4.07      Provision would be made for providing these outgrowers with exten-
sion services. The land would be developed by the Project up to planting and
would then be handed over to the outgrowers. The little new land clearing
needed in Msolwa would be by hand. Subsequent land preparation services for
new outgrowers, except KDDC, and cane transport would be by KSC. The full
cost of development and subsequent services carried out by KSC would be re-
covered from outgrowers by deductions from cane sales (paras. 5.08 and 6.07).
4.08      Land Allocation.  Although the areas for estate and outgrower devel-
opment have been designated, it has been agreed by Government that the pro-
gram could be revised in the interests of a viable sugar operation. Specif-
ically, if the rates at which ujamaa villages expand and at which KDDC proved
able to operate its cane land were slower than anticipated, KSC would develop
and operate the fields until the outgrowers were ready to take over the de-
veloped areas. This arrangement would be at a negotiated price reflecting
the costs and any returns to KSC of the development. At negotiations Govern-
ment confirmed this arranaement.
Equipment Requirement (Annex 7)
4.09      Tne rate of cane-land development is critical to the achievement
of target sugar production and the land development schedule is, in turn,
dependent on the timely procurement of necessary machinery; this would in-
clude 31 crawler and 41 wheeled tractors, which with other equipment for
land development and preparation are estimated to cost nearly US$3.0 million.
Detailed requirements and a procurement timetable are at Annex 7, Table 6.
As labor availability is limited, cropping operations on tile estate, with
the exception of cutting, would be mechanized. Cane transport would be by
tractor-drawn side-loading carts on to which the cane, piled by the cutters,
would be pulled by wheeled tractors - a system currently operating satisfac-
torily on the K I estate. A further 146 haulage tractors, loaders, trailers
and implements valued at about US$2.0 million would be needed for harvesting
and cane haulage.
Non-Factory Ancillaries
4.10      Supporting investments under Part I would consist of:
(a)  construction of an access road and a rail siding to the factory;
(b)  provision of two deep wells for potable water;
(c)  development of housing areas including roads, water and elec-
tricity supplies, and construction of 47 senior and 120 junior
staff houses, and housing for permanent and seasonal laborers;



- 11 -
(d) construction of a guest house, community center, sports field,
shopping area, primary school, and police station.
Construction would be by local contractors under KSC supervision. The rails
would be laid on a KSC built rail bed by East African Railways.
Training and Research
4.11      An on-the-job training program supn  emented by compulsory work-time
classes would be instituted for field and factory staff of KSC.  This would
be supported by training in Tanzania and abroad for selected managerial and
technical posts. Training would not only aim to provide staff for K II but
also to facilitate the eventual localization of all of KSC staff as well as
the transfer of trained personnel to new sugar developments as they take
place.
4.12      To allow for training time, the factory and field staff of K I would
be over-staffed at supervisory and trainee levels, starting a season prior to
the opening of K II and thereafter as needed (Annex 8). Provision for a full-
time training officer, for his accommodation, for classrooms and equipment,
and for 15 man-years of overseas fellowships and 60 man-years of training in
Tanzanian technical schools would be included in Part I of the Project. In
addition, nurseries included in Part II w;ould cover five man-years of train-
ing in the Netherlands. The Training Officer would prepare training curri-
cula for both K I and K II, and would supervise senior and supervisory staff
responsible for training. This person would have long experience of training
in the sugar industry. At negotiations assurances were obtained that this
appointment would be made by KSC only after consultation with the Bank Group
as to the candidate's qualifications and experience.
4.13      An increased program of adaptive research into irrigation and drain-
age, field mechanization, smut and nematode control, and cane quality of new
varieties appropriate to the Project area is needed if KSC is to continue
to improve its performance. Provision would be made for two additional
qualified agronomists and two assistants to join the research division (cur-
rently under the Agricultural Manager) to undertake this program, as well as
for the necessary supporting equipment.
Future Sugar Developments
4.14      To avoid continued piecemeal growth of the industry, the Project
would include provision for a countrywide survey of sugar potential which
would identify possible development areas and include preparation of detailed
feasibilitv studies. Provision would be made for forty man-months of inter-
nationally recruited consultants' time for the survey and report preparation,
and for support staff and travel. The survey team would consist of an agri-
culturalist with sugar and irrigation experience, a sugar processing specialist,
an agricultural economist, and a financial analyst. Draft terms of reference
for the study are at Annex 9. Because of the long lead time involved, and



- 12 -
particularly as pilot growing areas would need to be established, priority
should be given to an early start to this study. At negotiations assurances
were obtained that Government would ensure that SDC would obtain Bank Group
approval on its proposals for organizing the study prior to finalizing the
selection of consultants.
Sugar Factory
4.15      Part II of the Project would include the construction, in the new
sugar growing area, of a sugar factory for producing semi-refined white sugar.
The factory would be supplied under a fixed-price turnkey contract 1/ which
includes the cane mill and refining plant, steam and power generation plants,
factory and tractor workshops, warehouses and storage tanks, offices, pump
stations and canals for factory and irrigation water supplies, a telephone
system, and spare parts for the factory equipment (Annex 10). Part II of the
Project would also include provision for supervision of the construction under
a separate contract: the factory would be operated by the existing KSC manage-
ment and most senior posts would be common to K I and K II (para. 5.01).
4.16      The factory would be a standard plant with off-the-shelf components.
It would be capable of milling 2,400 m tons of cane/day (TCD) and producing
45,000 m tons of sugar in a 200-day gross milling season 2/ at an outturn of
10.5% sugar/cane. It would be located at the SW corner of the new estate and
outgrowers development area. The size of the plant is restricted by the
availability of proximate sugar land.  The plant could, however, handle up
to 10% more cane if yield improvements made this volume available, and the
proposed factory layout and its design factors are such that if sugar prices
permit haulage of cane over a greater distance, the plant could be expanded
to 3,000 TCD to produce 60,000 m tons of sugar a year. The milling season
is dictated by the influence of the rainfall pattern on cane ripening and
harvesting conditions: over the last 12 years the average period of suitably
dry weather has been 234 days and only once was the weather so wet that the
net milling days could not have been achieved. The influences on the location
of the factory are building and access costs and cane transport costs. Trans-
port costs would be minimized by a central site which would, however, involve
greater investment for water, power and a rail-line than a site closer to
the river and railway. The SW corner site, now agreed upon, involves US$2.2
million less in investment costs and slightly increases the rate of return
on the Project despite higher haulage costs over a central location. The
proposed process, scale and location of the factory are discussed in Annex 11.
4.17      Start up of the K II factory is scheduled for July 1976; achieving
this target would be important if the first cane crop - estimated to require
158 days to process including 15% down-time - is to be milled. It is es-
timated that the factory would take 26 months to complete from the date of
1/   Signed on April 5, 1974.
2/   This allows for 10% down-time on the plant over the net milling require-
ment of 181 days.



- 13 -
contract effectiveness (April 26, 1974). The irrigation water supply system
and the tractor workshops would be needed early in 1974/75 for use by KSC
in the development of the estate. Immediate implementation would also be
needed for the factory access road and preparation of a rail bed, and early
completion of staff and labor housing would reduce the need for temporary
accommodations.
4.18      A critical path analysis which brings together the interrelated
estate, factory and ancillary developments is at Annex 12: the critical paths
are shown as a heavy line on the diagram and key dates are indicated. Although
the development program is tight, the factory construction schedule is the
subject of the signed turnkey contract, while preliminary work already in
progress at June 1974 indicates that the timetable for the estate and outgrower
cane development (in part interchangeable (para. 4.08)) should be capable of
achievement. The existence of some established facilities and management in
K I should help facilitate this implementation.
C. Project Costs (Annex 13)
4.19      Total Project cost is estimated at Tsh 398 million (US$55.8
million), of which US$43.7 million or 78% would represent foreign exchange
requirements. Details are summarized in the following table:



Proportion     Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total     Local  Foreign  Total        of Total      Exchange
(Tsh million)              (US$ million)                              %
Part I
Development Costs
Land development, transport, and
irrigation equipment                   3.2    45.6   48.8        0.4      6.4     6.8          12            94
Other land development costs            11.0     6.7    17.7        1.5     1.0     2.5           4            38
Non-factory buildings and equipment      9.6     4.4    14.0       1.4      0.6     2.0           4            32
Water and electricity supplies           0.9     1.6     2.5       0.1      0.3     0.4           1             65
Community facilities                     1.7     0.6     2.3       0.2      0.1     0.3           1             25
Access Railway and Road                  1.7     2.7     4.4       0.2      0.4     0.6           1             60
Sub-total                          28.1    61,6    89.7       '3.8     8.8    12.6          23            69
Research and Training                      3.1     3.0     6.1        0.5     0.4     0.9           1             49
Sugar Survey                               0.5     1.6     2.1        0.1     0.2     0.3           1             73
Kilosa District Development Corp.          0.5     0.2     0.7        0.1      - V    0.1           - 3/          29
Total                              32.2    66.4   98.6        4.5      9.14   13.9          25            67
Contingencies
Physical                                 3.8     7.4    11.2       0.6      1.0     1.6           3 4          66
Price                                   18.3    35.5    53.8       2.5      5-0    7.5           13 5/         66
Total Part I                       514.3  109.3   163.6       7.6    15.4   23.0            41             67
Part II
Factory (Tamkey contract including
plant, machinery, freight insurance
and local transport)                    32.2  195.2   227.4        4.5    27.3   31.8            5 7            86
Factory supervision                         -      6.9     6.9        _       1.0     1.0            2           100
Total Part II                      32.2  202.1   234.3        4.5   28.3    32.8            5 9            83
Total Project Cost                 86.5  311.4  397.9        12.1    43.7    55.8          100            18
1/  Including contingencies.
2/ Less than US$100,000.
3/  Less than 0.5%.
v  3% on total Project cost and 11% on Part I base cost.
§/  16% on total Project cost and 54% on Part I base cost.



- 15 -
The taxation component of Project cost is estimated at less than l'S$0.2
million. Costs are based on the signed contracts for the turnkey factory,
on the proposal for the supervision contract, and on appraisal estimates for
ancillary items. Physical contingencies of 10% have been app'ied to all Part
I items, and to these same items cumulative price contingencies averaging
about 21% in year 1, 13% in year 2, 12% in year 3 and 11% in years 4 and 5
have also been applied to both local and foreign exchange costs. (Annex 13,
Table 1). With the exception of freight and insurance (for which price con-
tingencies have been added) the price agreed for the factory is firm for the
duration of the contract and includes adequate built-in provision for con-
tingencies (Annex 10).
D. Financing
4.20      Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
Dutch   Danish
Govt.   Govt.        IDA       Bank   Tanzania   Total
---US$ (million)--------------------
Part I (estate and
ancillaries)       -        -          9.00      9.00     5.00      23.00
Part II (Factory)       11.00   17.30         -         -        4.50      32.80
Total Financing       11.00   17.30        9.00      9.00      9.50      55.80
=,         =._
Percent of Total    20        31          16        16        17        100
The Tanzania contribution includes KSC self-generated funds of about US$4.0
million (para. 6.08) and the Tanzania budgetary contribution is thus expected
to be reduced to about US$5.5 million, 10% of total Project costs.
4.21      The proposed IDA Credit of US$9.00 million would be on standard
terms and the proposed Bank loan of US$9.00 million would be for 25 years
including five years in which interest only would be paid. Proposed Bank
Group financing represents 78% of Part I costs including all foreign exchange
costs and about 34% of local costs. The Dutch loan would be on the same
terms as the IDA Credit. The Danish contribution representing parts of three
loans to Tanzania would be part repayable over 25 years with 7 years grace
and part over 35 years with 10 years grace, all at zero interest. For both
Dutch and Danish aid funds, 75% of expenditure must be used for goods or
services originating in the lending country. The composition of supplies
for Part II takes this into account and tne bilateral financing is expected
to be available as needed under the terms of the turnkey contract (Annex 10,
Table 1). Evidence of firm commitments of the funds by the Dutch and Danish
Governments would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan and
Credit. The Danish loan is part of a larger commitment to Tanzania which is



- 16 -
not tied specifically to this Project. At negotiations, Government assurances
were obtained that it would commit not less than the equivalent of US$17.3
million of Danish loan funds to the Project.
4.22      Apart from funds required for the sugar survey (which would be a
grant to SDC), Bank Group finance conmitted to Part I of the Project would
be on-lent to KSC at 9% per year interest. The proceeds of both the Loan and
Credit would be.repayable by KSC over 25 years including 5 years in which
interest only would be payable. Danish and Dutch aid would cover Part II of
the Project and an assurance was obtained that not less than 30% nor more
than 50% of the total proceeds,would be passed to KSC through SDC as equity
capital. The Tanzanian contribution, other than that derived from KSC's
self-generated funds, would be passed to KSC as a 9% loan or equity as appro-
priate. The execution of financing agreements between Government and KSC
acceptable to the Bank Group would be a condition of Loan and Credit effective-
ness.
4.23      In order not to delay the start-up of the factory, preliminary work
on land clearing and development, access roads, rail bed preparation and site
clearing are already being undertaken. To meet such costs incurred between
May 1, 1974 and Project effectiveness, provision would be made in the IDA al-
location for a sum not exceeding US$0.7 million from which expenditures on
equipment and civil works may be met by retroactive financing.
E. Procurement
4.24      Procurement from the proceeds of the Loan and Credit would be as
follows:
(a)  orders for vehicles .and related.e.quipment for land clearing
and preparation, for cane transport, and for administrative
and service staff, irrigation, potable water and electricity
transmission equipment (US$7.4 million) would be bulked to
the maximum extent,possible. Procurement would be by inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines unless the bulk order was less than US$30,000 in
which case procurem!ent would be in accordance with Government
procedures which are satisfactory.  Any items retroactively
financed,would have had to meet these criteria.  In evaluation
of.bids local manufacturers would be allowed a 15% preference
or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower.
The sugar survey and feasibility studies would be by con-
sultants appointed in accordance with Bank Group.guidelines;
(b)  civil works construction (US$2.3 million) would also be
procured by international competitive bidding except for
small individual items costing less than US$30,000.
Prequalified local firms would be given a 7-1/2% preference
in the evaluation of their bids;



- 17 -
(c)  land preparation, road construction, rail bed construction,
and installation of irrigation equipment (US$2.6) would be
by KSC which has an established organization able to undertake
this work. Rail line would be procured and laid by East African
Railways under their standard procedures. Potable water and
electricity would be installed by KSC or by local contractors.
Assurances that the above procedures would be followed were obtained at
negotiations.
F. Disbursement (Annex 14)
4.25      Disbursements would be made first from the Credit account and
then from the Loan account on the following basis:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditure or 85% of local expenditure for
land clearing and preparation equipment, other tractors,
trailers and vehicles, irrigation equipment and potable water
and electricity supply equipment and materials, furniture and
equipment for non-factory buildings (US$8.4 million);
(b)  75% of expenditure on construction of houses, the community
center and school and other non-factory buildings, railway,
road and bridge construction, and land clearance and preparation
equipment (US$4.2 million);
(c) 100% of foreign expenditure or 75% of local expenditure for the
sugar survey and feasibility study and for research and training
(US$1.1 million).
Disbursements would be fully documented. Any funds remaining in the accounts
at the completion of the Project would be available for reallocation at the
discretion of the Bank Group.
G. Accounts and Audit Procedures
4.26      Separate accounts reflecting the income and expenditure of K II, and
normal commercial accounts geared to cost control and management information
related to all operating departments would be kept by KSC. Current accounting
systems need strengthening (Annex 1), and to this end KSC intends to recruit
an experienced Financial Controller. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that such a person would be recruited. Accounts would also be kept by KSC
for the cane-growing operations of the ujamaa outgrowers, and KDDC would be
required to keep normal commercial accounts of its sugar operation. Assurances



- 18 -
were obtained at negotiations that the accounts maintained by KSC would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group and that the
accounts and auditors reports would be submitted to the Group within 6 months
of the close of their fiscal year. KDDC accounts would be audited by the
Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEIENT
5.01      The K II factory and estate would be an integral part of KSC, which
is itself wholly owned by SDC (para. 2.05). KSC - with the guidance of HVA,
its managing agents since 1965 (para. 5.04) - would have overall responsibil-
ity for organizing and managing the Project. KSC has the capacity and ex-
perience to undertake both functions. Existing management staff of KSC and
senior factory, agricultural and administrative posts would be common to the
K I and K II estates and factories. The 18 joint posts are identified in
Annex 15. However, except in such cases as a mill breakdown when cane from
one estate or its outgrowers may be transferred to the other factory for
processing, the day-to-day running of K I and K II would be separate and
most field, factory and administrative personnel would be identified with
one of the plants. Twenty-six new management posts, of which 12 are expected
initially to be filled by expatriates, are also shown in Annex 15.
Project Construction Organization
5.02      The agricultural development program - estate and outgrowers -
would be handled directly by experienced KSC staff of the Agricultural
Services Division using additional machinery and equipment included in the
Project. Most of the construction of housing and community facilities would
be by local contractors. The factory development program, including ir-
rigation water supplies, would be handled as a turnkey package with equipment
provided by, and civil works undertaken by, a Dutch/Danish consortium of
reputable firms with experience in the sugar industry. Supervision of the
construction, equipping and testing of the factory would be by HVA under a
contract to be signed with KSC.
5.03      HVA's proposal for staff under this contract, and the specifications,
terms and conditions of the turnkey contract (para. 4.15) were reviewed by
the Bank Group and suggestions made to Government prior to signing. Progress
on construction would be checked by Bank Group supervision missions which
would include a qualified consultant engineer: these progress checks would
be purely advisory to Government. This arrangement is designed to meet some
conflict of interest arising from the close links in the Project between
those responsible for supply, supervision and execution, without the division
of responsibility for Project development which would occur if a third party
with executive powers were introduced as supervising engineer. Bank Group
interest in all aspects of the turnkey package, other than to offer Tanzania



- 19 -
impartial technical assistance, would be solely concerned with the extent
to which it would affect the overall viability of the Project. The Project
organization at Annex 16 shows the composition of the supply consortium.
Management
5.04      Under a management agreement with KSC, HVA provides an experienced
General Manager and Factory Manager, as well as technical and management
supervision from Amsterdam, and is responsible for recruiting other senior
personnel. The current 3-year agreement has been extended pending a renewal
which would be back-dated to May 1, 1974. A condition of Credit and Loan
effectiveness would be that the new agreement had been signed and that its
terms were acceptable to the Bank Group. This agreement would extend only
through the first season of operations for K II, but it is anticipated that
it would be further renewed in 1977. At negotiations assurances were ob-
tained that KSC would obtain the prior approval of the Bank Group to the
terms of any renewal of this agreement or to any alternative arrangements
to be made.
5.05      Factory Management.  Under the joint Factory Manager, the Project
factory would be organized into two departments. The Technical Department,
headed by a Chief Engineer, would be responsible for cane handling and juice
extraction, steam and power generation, and factory maintenance. The Process
Department, under a Chief Chemist, would be responsible for juice and sugar
processing, sugar storage, and quality control. Initially, of some 20 senior
posts in the two departments, 10 including the Chief Engineer and Chief
Chemist, are expected to be filled by expatriates. An organization chart
with initial staffing proposals is at Annex 15, Chart 2. The senior staffing
of the Technical Department makes allowance for expatriate staff whose primary
role is training local staff and dealing with start-up problems. Reductions
by one first engineer and three shift engineers may be anticipated after two
years.
5.06      Agricultural Management.  The organization of the Agricultural
Services would follow that successfully operating in K I, under which the
Project shares the services of the Agricultural Manager and a team of
agronomists responsible for research and disease control (para. 2.09).
Operations would be divided between a Field Department, headed by a Field
Manager responsible for the cane areas, and a Mechanization Department,
headed by a Tractor Workshop Manager assisted by four qualified engineers
responsible respectively for irrigation, cultivation, harvesting, and general
equipment and vehicles. The two Managers would be persons with considerable
experience in their respective fields; it is anticipated that initially they
would need to be recruited internationally. Other posts in the two depart-
ments are expected to be filled by Tanzanians (Annex 15, Chart 3).



- 20 -
Outgrowers
5.07      An assistant field manager and section manager would be responsible
for supervision of, and assistance to outgrowers. They would prepare an annual
planting program for the ujamaa outgrowers, and would also provide technical
advice to ensure that outgrowers received optimum returns and that their
production fitted factory schedules. The planting program, based upon an
average of 4 acres of cane per family, could be modified in the light of ex-
perience. KDDC would also initially receive technical and managerial advice
from Project staff as it has no experience in land development or sugar cane
growing, but would, as soon as possible, maintain its own field staff trained
by KSC. Ultimately, KDDC would employ an estate manager, accountant, and
field officers; would hire labor on its own account; and would enter into
contracts with KSC for land preparation, mechanical cultivation, planting
and cane transport.
5.08      Outgrowers would be provided mechanical services and seed cane at
cost. Contracts for purchase of milling cane would be signed annually. It
is envisaged that KSC would recover the cost of establishing outgrowers sugar
areas through loans ranging from 6-11 years at 9% interest annually which,
together with the cost of cane transportation, would be recovered from cane
proceeds. At negotiations it was agreed that the proposed agreements would
reflect a full recovery of KSC costs.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Cane and Sugar Yields and Production
6.01      The average cane yield projections for irrigated cane and outgrowers
have been derived from the experience of KSC with the K I estate and outgrowers.
The rainfed estate cane yields have been based on the records of the better-
managed K I outgrowers actually situated in the K II area. The risk of a
recurrence of yellow wilt which reduced yields drastically (para. 2.04) is
considered slight, while the five-cutting system, based on results of field
trials carried out by KSC, is the system used in K I. Trials are continuing
and the system could be altered in the light of new results or if cost/price
ratios change. The cane yield assumptions are:



- 21 -
Estate Cane               Outgrowers Cane
Cutting            Irrigated    Rainfed               Rainfed
-m ton/acre--------
Plant Cane            60           40                    33
1st Ratoon            50           44                   35
2nd Ratoon            45           37                   30
3rd Ratoon            40           32                   27
4th Ratoon            30           27                   25
Average             45           36                   30
Cutting takes place on average at 12-month intervals.
6.02      The cane/sugar ratio at KSC has varied in recent years between
9.1% and 11.0% and averages 10.5%. With growing and processing conditions
essentially similar, it is assumed that the latter figure would be achieved
in K II.
6.03      Project cane and sugar production is estimated to develop as follows:
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980  1981 onward
Cane Production('000 m tons)  143    322    409    436    425   419           422
Irrigated Estate               47    125    161    157    150   143         147
Rainfed Estate                 30     99    116    135    134   137         137
New Outgrowers                 -      32      65     78      74    73        72
Existing Outgrowers            66     66      66     66    .66    66         66
Sugar Production at 10.5%
('000 m tons)                 15      34     43      46     45    44        44
Milling Days Required            66    149    189    201    196   194         195
Cane harvested in 1975 would be milled in the existing K I factory which would
have adequate capacity at that time. The milling days required, within the
200-day season, allow for 10% downtime: performance should be significantly
better than this.
Markets
6.04      Sugar produced under the Project would be consumed within Tanzania
in substitution for imports. Most would go to the retail market which, on
the basis of anticipated increases in population and per capita consumption
and in view of existing plans for expanding production, is unlikely to be
satisfied from domestic sources in the next decade (para. 2.08). Molasses,
a by-product, would be exported.



- 22 -
Prices
6.05      By 1980 the price of sugar on the world market, expressed in 1974
constant dollar terms, is expected to be around 8.7 USE lb., raw, f.o.b.
Caribbean, compared with 19.3 USA lb. in the first quarter of 1974 and an
average for the 5 years, 1969 to 1973 of under 6.0 USA lb. (Annex 17).
Constant term import substitution prices are used for evaluation. The 1980
price is the equivalent of about Tsh 1,765 per m ton c.i.f. Dar-es-Salaam
for refined sugar, comparable with a current net ex-factory price of Tsh
1,370 per m ton for Mtibwa and Tsh 1,080 per m ton for KSC, TPC and Kagera
(Annex 2). Under an agreement proposed with a private company (United
Molasses Trading Company), the minimum price for molasses through 1981 would
be Tsh 70.00 per m ton; a price of Tsh 150 per m ton is expected, however.
6.06      For cash flow purposes, from 1976 onward an ex-factory price of
Tsh 1,450 m ton has been assumed for KSC as an entity, including the K II
expansion (Annex 18). This implies the payment of the full long term im-
port substitution price to K II and an increase of Tsh 55 m ton, to Tsh
1,135 m ton to K I. Even at present levels of operating costs (Annex 1),
a need for at least this increase is required to give a reasonable return
on the investment. At this level and with a debt/equity ratio of 50%, KSC
would be able to service its debt and pay a dividend averaging about 9% on
equity (Annex 18).
6.07      At negotiations Government agreed that, in recognition of the
need to cover all costs, it would set an ex-factory price for KSC sugar
which would give a return on all capital employed, taking one year with
another, of about 9%: at present costs this would amount to between
Tsh 1,450 and Tsh 1,500 per m ton. Retail prices will need to be reviewed
regularly in the light of such factors as production costs and import prices
(para. 2.08). At negotiations assurances were obtained that Government would
undertake such reviews. A price of Tsh 50.00 m ton for outgrowers cane de-
livered to the factory weighbridge has been used in projections. This is an
increase over the present price to outgrowers of Tsh 42.50 and is necessary
to cover costs and give farmers an incentive to grow cane (Annex 19). The
cane price to be paid to outgrowers was discussed at negotiations and an
assurance was obtained that KSC would keep under review the price payable for
outgrowers cane and would adjust this as necessary to ensure the maintenance
of production incentives.
Government Budget and Foreign Exchange
6.03      Tanzania would finance US$9.5 million (about 17%) of the total
Project cost (para. 4.20). At least US$4.0 million of this sum would be
available from KSC self-generated funds whose net surplus after taxation
in the 5 years 1973/74 to 1977/78 is expected to total about US$10.0 million
(the balance mainly arises in the Project's final year). In the same period
Government would expect to receive a further US$4.0 million in excise duty



- 23 -
on the incremental sugar from K II. There are no significant external costs
imposed on Government by the Project, and from 1978/79, the Project's sixth
year, Government is expected to show a positive net cash flow exceeding US$5.0
million a year (Annex 20).
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would improve Tanzania's foreign exchange position by
substituting domestic production for sugar currently imported. From 1979
the Project would result in an average annual incremental production of sugar
of 45,000 m tons and 16,000 tons of molasses together worth US$16.8 million
on the world market. The annual net saving or earning of foreign exchange
would be nearly US$14.0 million equivalent. The impact of the Project on
foreign exchange reserves is shown in Annex 20, Table 2.   The Project would
provide a cash crop for nearly 800 farm families mostly organized in ujamaa
villages, and give a recently formed District Development Corporation a
valuable enterprise to operate.
Economic Rate of Return
7.02      The internal economic rate of return (IER) on the Project is estimated
at 13% over 20 years (Annex 21). In this calculation foreign exchange costs
and earnings were shadow priced at Tsh 10.00 per US$1.00 (140% of the official
rate of Tsh 7.14 per US$1.00) to reflect the economic value of foreign exchange
to Tanzania. Without shadow pricing the return would be 11%. All other costs
and benefits are taken at long term market prices, in 1974 terms, less taxes
and excise. The estimate of 13% is lower than it would be if it had been
possible to define and omit an element of price contingencies included in the
fixed price negotiated for Part II of the Project. Normally such contingencies
would be removed for IER calculation.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.03      The Project could be adversely or favorably affected by several
factors and the influence of these on the internal rate of return have been
tested (Annex 21). Risks faced in the Project are, in particular, unforeseen
delays in land development and factory construction, lower than anticipated
sugar prices, and yields below estimates. The consequences of the K II fac-
tory not coming on stream for the 1976 season (para. 4.17) would not be
critical because part of the cane could be processed in K I and the rest
left in the field until the 1977 season at relatively small loss in yield
and sugar content: the delay would reduce the return to 11%. A drop in
sugar price of 20% would reduce the return to 7%, and yields consistently
20% below estimates would result in a return of 9%. Falls of this magnitude
are unlikely. The Project return would be less sensitive to variations in
costs of estate development, and factory and estate operating costs.



- 24 -
Employment and Income Benefits
7.04      Direct paid employment benefits would arise from estate and factory
operations and from KDDC offering training and up-graded jobs as tractor
drivers, cane cutters and about 200 supervisory and technical posts. There
is virtually no labor displacement involved; the farmers who have been dis-
placed in the estate area are expected to continue working either as members
of an ujamaa village or in paid work on sugar or ancillary services.
7.05      Outgrower ujamaa farm families would earn an annual net farm income
including subsistence of around US$275 (US$55 per person) from the second year
and average about US$725 (US$145 per person) once development costs are paid
off (Annex 6, Table 4). The current average agricultural income, including
subsistence, of a rural family in Tanzania is estimated at US$215 (US$43 per
head) and incomes in the Kilombero area are below the national average.
Ecological and External Effects
7.06      Non-toxic liquid residue from sugar processing would be discharged
into the Great Ruaha River. It would contain some 200 tons/day of filtermud,
a dilution of solids to water equivalent to only 2 parts to 10,000 by weight
of the lowest daily average river flow recorded in any month in 15 years.
The river flows through an uninhabited game reserve for 170 km immediately
after leaving the Estate and the effluent would not have any deleterious
environmental effect. The application of irrigation water and fertilizer
would be carefully controlled, taking place on estate land only: no build
up of salts, no contamination of human drinking supplies, and no erosion
problems are anticipated.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following points:
(a) that Government agreed that in the event that
outgrowers are unable to meet the schedules laid down
for them, their land may be developed and operated by
KSC until the outgrowers are ready to take over the
developed areas (para. 4.08);
(b) that KSC's appointment of a Training Officer would be made
only after consultations with the Bank Group (para. 4.12);
(c) that Government would ensure that SDC would obtain the approval
of the Bank Group on its proposals for organizing the sugar
study prior to finalizing the selection of consultants (para.
4.14);



- 25-
(d)  that Government would commit not less than the equivalent of
US$17.3 million of Danish loan funds to this Project (para.
4.21);
(e) that not less than 30% nor more than 50% of the total proceeds
of the Dutch and Danish aid would be passed to KSC through
SDC as equity capital (para. 4.22);
(f)  that the procedures detailed in paragraph 4.24 for procurement
under the Project would be followed (para. 4.24);
(g) that an experienced Financial Controller for KSC would be,
recruited (para. 4.26);
(h) that the accounts maintained by KSC would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group and
that the accounts and auditors reports would be submitted
to the Association within 6 months of the close of their
financial year (para. 4.26);
(i) that prior approval of the Bank Group would be obtained to
the terms of any renewal of the managing agency agreement
due to become effective on May 1, 1974, or to any alternative
arrangements which may be made (para. 5.04);
(j)  thit Government would set an ex-factory price
for KSC sugar wliich would give a return on all
caipital employed, taking one year witlh anothler, of
ahout 9% (para. 6.07);
(k) that retail prices for sugar would be reviewed regularly in
the light of such factors as production costs and import
prices (para. 6.07); and
(1) that KSC would keep under review the price payable for
outgrowers cane and would adjust this as necessary to
ensure the maintenance of outgrowers production incentives
(para. 6.07).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the Credit and Loan would be:
(a) receipt by the Bank Group of satisfactory evidence of firm
commitments by the Dutch Government to provide the equivalent
of US$11.0 million and the equivalent of US$17.3 million by
the Danish Government, to meet the cost of the turnkey factory
and supervision (para. 4.21);
(b) the execution of financing agreements, acceptable to the Bank
Group, between Government and KSC (para. 4.22); and



- 26 -
(c) that a new managing agency agreement had been signed between
KSC and HVA on terms acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 5.04).
8.03      Subject to the above conditions, the Project is suitable for an IDA
Credit of US$9.0 million and a Bank Loan of US$9.0 million to the Government
of Tanzania.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Kilombero Sugar Company Ltd. (KSC)-'
History
1.        The Kilombero Sugar Company was formed in 1960, with IFC as one of
its shareholders. The other initial investors were the Commonwealth Develop-
ment Corporation (CDC), the Nederlandse Overzeese Financierings-Maatschappij
N.V. (NOFC), and Verenigde Klattense Cultuur Maatschappij, followed later
by Rubber Cultuur Maatschappij Amsterdam and the Standard Bank (East Africa)
Ltd. The initial mill was rated at 1,300 tons cane per day, which it achieved
in the 1964 season. It was expanded to 1,750 tons cane per day in 1965 and
1966, and to 2,150 tons cane per day in 1972.
2.        KSC's early years were not profitable, partly due to operational
problems, and partly because the price fixed by Government to be paid for
sugar was inadequate to cover costs of production. At April 30, 1968 accumu-
lated losses amounted to Tsh 10 million. On September 1, 1968, Tanzania
Government reduced the price paid for sugar from Tsh 1,100 to Tsh 920 per
long ton--that paid to the Tanzania Planting Company. Although substantial
progress had been made in improving KSC operations, the principal investors
and the Board of Directors concluded that KSC could not be viable at that
sugar price; Government then indicated it would be receptive to an offer by
the principal investors to sell their interests, and an agreement to that
effect was signed on February 3, 1969. IFC's write-off was about US$200,000,
which represented 28% of its cash investment in KSC equity. Investments at
that time of the takeover were:
(Tsh Million)
Shares                     Loans
Income
Ordinary Preference  Debentures  Notes   Total
IFC                               6.5         -            8.7      14.3    29.5
CDC                              17.2         -            7.2       6.2    30.7
NOFC                               6.2        -            3.0        3.3    14.2
Standard Bank (E.A.)              4.1         -             -         -       4.0
Tanzania Government                6.0        -             -         -       6.0
Rubber Cultuur Maats. Amsterdam  2.5          -             -         -       2.5
Public                              -        0.8            -          -      0.8
42.5       0.8          18.9       23.8    87.7
1/   Financial years end April 30.  Milling seasons are usually complete by
December 31; i.e., "The 1972 season" is that which takes place in the
financial year ended April 30, 1973.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        In the four years since Government acquired the capital, KSC has
done slightly better than break even, but with a low return on capital.
There have been two reasons for the improved position. First, with the
technical problems solved, sugar production increased and per ton operating
costs fell by considerably more than would have resulted from the mere eco-
nomy of scale. Second, a financial reconstruction took place in 1970 to
convert loans to equity and to write off past losses; this removed the burden
of interest charges from net income. Thus, profitability was achieved
despite the 1968 reduction in the price payable for sugar. For the year
ended April 30, 1974, a net profit of Tsh 4.6 million is estimated, repre-
senting 7-1/2% return on invested capital: this results from a further
considerable increase in sugar production and from restoring the sugar price
to its pre-September 1968 level. This improved position will be difficult
to maintain without an increase in the ex-factory sugar price as unit costs
of production have now started to rise.
Present Constitution, Shareholders and Board
4.        On the departure of the overseas investors all KSC's capital was
held by the Tanzania Treasury. The financial reconstruction, as well as
writing off accumulated losses, created a capital structure of Tsh 36
million ordinary shares and Tsh 36 million 7% non-cumulative preference shares.
Treasury transferred the former to NAFCO in 1972 and NAFCO to SDC in 1974.
Under the present Articles of Association, the preference shares have the
same voting rights as the ordinary: a conversion right expired in 1970.
However, these Articles are in several respects unsuitable to the present
circumstances of KSC, and Tanzania Legal Corporation is currently drafting
a replacement for submission to a General Meeting of the company.
Estate Operations
5.        Planting started in the 1961 season of an irrigated 7,500 acre estate,
which was substantially completed in 1965. At average yields at that time of
around 35 m tons cane per acre, harvested cane amounted to 250,000 m tons per
year.  Outgrowers then produced about 60,000 m tons cane (20% of the cane
milled), though at considerably lower yields. Cane yields were low in the
middle 1960's due to a severe disease problem, yellow wilt, which affected
estate and outgrowers from 1964 to 1970. Despite research by KSC, neither
cause nor cure has been definitely explained, but its reduction has been
achieved partly by abandoning the more susceptible cane varieties and partly
by closer control of overhead irrigation and improved drainage. An unfortunate
result of yellow wilt is excessive reliance on a single cane variety, NCo376
(in which, however, KSC is by no means alone), but its adoption has undoubtedly
been one of the causes of the increases in cane yields to 49.5 m tons per acre,
60% above their lowest point in 1968-69. Sugar yields too have improved from
an average of 9.6% in the six years to 1967-68, to 10.6% in the five subse-
quent years.



ASNEX 1
Page 3
6.        In the period 1965-1971, estate cane production stayed steady, while
outgrower production doubled to 136,000 m tons (37%). It fell to 126,900 m
tons, following the fragmentation in 1971 of the Kilombero Cooperative
Society into ujamaa villages, and this drop in production was made up by the
estate. The targets for 1973-74 set estate cane production to rise 50,000
m tons (22%) to 280,000 m tons, and outgrowers 13,000 (10%) to 140,000 m tons,
in order to provide enough cane following the 1972 factory expansion; unfortu-
nately, the target estate production is unlikely to be attained due to late
rains which delayed the start of the milling season. Unfavorable weather
also resulted in late closes to the seasons and hence low milling efficiencies
in both the 1966 and 1967 seasons. In 1968 poor cane yields from yellow
wilt but good harvesting weather resulted in an early end to the season;
the three following season to 1971 all lasted about 210 days at a reasonable
average of 90% milling efficiency, and there were few stoppages for lack of
cane.
7.        The estate is irrigated by water from the Great Ruaha river.  The
system is of open canals, from which mobile diesel pumps supply portable
sprinkler lines.  The water distribution system has become more effective
over the years, and the impeded drainage of the fields furthest from the mill,
where the gradient is less than 1.2%, is no longer important following the
decrease in estate acreage.
S.        The growing period in the estate is approximately eleven months.
Five crops--plantcane and four ratoons--may be taken from a plant; however,
planting is often done after the third or fourth crop. Cane is burnt the
evening before cutting, which is manual. Cane cutters stack their cut into
bundles; these are either winched on to side-loading trailers, or, less
commonly, on to back-loaded trailers. The side-loaders carry 3-1/2 tons cane
apiece and are hauled by 65 hp tractors in trains of three. The back-loaded
trailers also carry 3-1/2 tons; they are self-contained units with their own
winches on the tractors. The side-loading trailers are more effective and
they will be used on the K II estate.
9.        Plantation costs per acre fell from 1967 to 1971 due mainly to
reducing the amount of irrigation and to mechanizing the cultivation pro-
cesses. Harvesting costs per m ton cane likewise fell over this period; the
most important causes were replacing an aged tractor fleet and a decrease
in the average distance to be hauled as the estate was reduced. Since 1971
both plantation and harvesting costs have risen with the increases in cost
of all factors of production.
Outgrowers
10.       Sugarcane was being grown in the Msolwa valley for the production
of jaggery at the time of KSC's formation. The outgrower fields have increased
from 1,400 acres of rainfed cane in 1966 to 5,300 acres in 1973. Most of the
development is south of the Great Ruaha river, immediately East of the Gologolo
mountains whose influence on rainfall makes this the wettest part of the
cane-growing region supplying KSC. However two estates, one of approximately



ANNEX 1
Page 4
900 acres and the other of 450 acres, grow cane in the Project area north of
the Great Ruaha river, and although over a mile from the mountain range have
the highest cane yields per acre of the outgrowers; this indicates that a
lower rainfall can be offset by good husbandry on good soils. A few individual
growers and an ujamaa village have recently started growing cane in the Project
area.
11.       Outgrowers contract with KSC for the sale of cane.  Under the current
contract the grower agrees to supply fixed quantities of cane up to three
years ahead. If he delivers less than 90% of his quota, KSC may reduce his
quota for the following year by the amount of the shortfall; the company may
also make such a reduction during the season itself. In practice the KSC
field staff agree the quotas each-year with the growers, following inspection
of their cane fields; the only limit from KSC's point of view.on the amount
of cane a grower may plant, is that which he can cultivate and harvest.
Short-falls are rare, the most significant having taken place following the
break-up of the Kilombero Cooperative. The cane price is fixed by the Ministry
of Agriculture, on a scale-which depends on the percentage of sugar in the
cane; below 8.5% sugar the company may reject the cane. The current price
is Tsh 41.50 per m ton cane at 10% sugar. The steady increase in outgrower
cane supplies indicates.a profitable activity, but projections made in the
course of Project appraisal suggest that the new growers (particularly KDDC)
will need Tsh 50 per-m ton at 1974 prices to cover costs and service capital.
Proceeds of cane are paid to growers firstly as an advance of Tsh 30 per m
ton on delivery, and the balance at the.end.of the season (Annex 21).
12.       KSC has no obligation under the contract to provide extension
service to the growers. It does have the-right to inspect growing and cutting
of cane, and imposes obligations in that respect on the grower. However, a
small-scale extension service is.being provided.  Outgrowers are otherwise
normally self-reliant, providing -their own,.tmchinery' and labor for land-
clearing, cultivation and cane transport; the re,latively large. size of most
of the growers has.made it unnecessary.for KSC to supply these services (in
1973 75% of the cane was supplied by 7-estat4es, 20% by individuals or associa-
tions of individuals, and 5% by ujamaa villages).
Factory Operations
13.       The expansion to 2,150 m ¢tons cane per day which was undertaken for
the 1972 season involved replacing-two:of :the six existing mills with a De
Danske Sukkerfabrikker (DDS) type diffuser, designed to give high sugar ex-
traction and increased molasses production.  Many start-up problems arose,
and over 20% down-time was recorded.  As a result, the season,was extended to
a record 256 days, with unavoidable stoppages in the latter part.due to the
difficulties of hauling cane in wet conditions. Further engineering work
was carried out in the offcrop and into the 1973 season, which started one
month late. The required capacity rating has now been achieved, but milling
efficiency, at 84%, is still low.  The extra costs of putting the new diffuser
in working:order,.which included the salaries of several expatriate technical



ANNEX 1
Page 5
experts for many months, were reflected in a 50% increase in per ton mill
costs in 1972 over the previous year; in 1973 to date they have fallen, with
the cessation of such activities, to levels which reflect inflation, but not
the full economies of the expansion, which are expected next season.
Sugar Sales
14.       Sugar is sold to the National Su.:r Board (NSB), whose agents now are
General Foods Company Ltd. (Annex 2). The price currently paid at the mill gate
for 99.7 degrees polarization and 0.1% maxinr.u moisture sugar in 50 kg or 100
kg bags is Tsh 1,080 per m ton. Shipments are made against orders by NSB,
and ownership passes with loading onto trucks in the railway siding; NSB however
pays 8% per annum interest on the selling price of stocks held by the factories
at any time in excess of one-twelfth of a year's production.
Molasses
15.       Until recently, molasses was used for road maintenance in the estate,
and occasionally on the fields themselves. Contracts are about to be signed
between KSC, Mtibwa Sugar Estates Ltd., SDC and United Molasses Trading
Company Ltd. (tM.4), a subsidiary of Tate and Lyle Ltd., for the shipment of
molasses through Dar-es-Salaam. UM has formed a company, Tanzania Tank
Storage Ltd. (TTS), in which it has 40% equity interest; Tanzania Planting
Company holds 40% and SDC 20%. TTS will erect storage facilities in the port
of Dar-es-Salaan with a capacity of 8,500 m tons molasses; the cost has been
estimated at Tsli 3 million, and storage rental charges would be such as to
give a return of 15% on invested capital. TTS will sign contracts with UM
for the supply of molasses and with KSC and Mtibwa for its purchase. Under
these contracts, the estates will receive the USDA New York-New Orleans
average price for molasses at date of shipment from Dar-es-Salaam, less
deductions for storage rental loading, and freight from Dar-es-Salaam to
Gulf/East Coast USA. Tne minimum price to be paid by TTS to the producers
would be Tsh 70 per m ton delivered at the storage terminal. KSC and Mtibwa
are to garantee to deliver to TTS 140,000 m tons molasses in the seven years
from July 1, 1974; this would be possible with an average joint annual sugar
production of 60,000 m tons, provided none was used for animal feed or other
local production in Tanzania. If these uses of molasses were to become
economically more desirable than their export, the manufacturers would be
able to terminate their contracts on or after July 1, 1977 on payment of Tsh 36
per m ton as compensation for the shortfall on 140,000 m tons.
Operating Results
16.       Table 1 shows KSC's operating results from incorporation to April
30, 1973 and the estimated figures for the year ended April 30, 1974. Table
2 shows balance sheets for the years ended April 30, 1970 through 1973.
17.       At April 30, 1973 KSC had Tsh 36 million tax losses and allowances
to carry forward. Under the 1973 Income Tax Act these and future losses and



ANNEX 1
Page 6
allowances must be used within three acounting years from their generation
or from January 1, 1974, whichever is the later.
Management
18.       Until 1965, KSC was managed by staff seconded or recruited by the
investors, particularly by CDC. In 1965, KSC entered into a management
contract with EVA International b.v. (HVA), a firm of sugar consultants and
managers based in Amsterdam. The contract was extended, pending a 3-year
renewal, on May 1, 1974. Under it HVA acts as Managing Director of KSC,
provides the General Manager and Factory Manager on secondment, and makes
available whatever services-such as engineering or agronomic advice, and
recruiting--may be needed on a visiting or an overseas arrangement.
19.       Until the departure of the overseas investors in 1969, CDC provided
an accountant. EVA has since recruited expatriates, mainly from the Nether-
lands, for technical positions in the factory and on the estate. KSC has
trained Tanzanians where possible for staff jobs, and the number of expatriates
has slowly declined over the years; however, Tanzanians are not available to
fill all senior posts in the agronomic and factory departments (Annex 16).
Government has recognized this as a general situation throughout Tanzania,
and in October 1973 the Prime Minister issued a directive designed to speed
up procedures by which parastatals can acquire necessary expatriate staff.
Offsetting this realistic approach, however, is the effect of the 1973 Income
Tax Act which has imposed tax increases that will deter many expatriates from
working in Tanzania; for example, a field manager earning Tsh 200,000 per
annum would now pay over 60% in tax, a 20% increase on his previous tax,
unless exempted from the recent increase.
20.       Management and accounting systems were instituted by the original
investors. Each department submits monthly or twice-monthly operating
reports to the General Manager. The Accounts Department prepares monthly
cost comparisons with estimates, which constitute a regular report to KSC
Board. Unfortunately, they present cost information rather than management
information, they do not relate to the reports of the operating departments,
and they are frequently rather late. The higher-level employees in the
Accounts Department lack both the time and the experience to do much more
than deal with routine transactions and complete monthy and annual accounts.
Recently, an Internal Auditor was appointed to take care of systems work; this
was made necessary by the change in auditors to National Audit Corporation,
who themselves are not able to provide the systems reports provided by their
predecessors. However, the Internal Auditor is responsible to the Chief
Accountant, and most of his time is spent on routine accounts department
work.
21.       In May 1968, IFC issued to KSC a report on its accounting and report-
ing systems. None of IFC's recommendations for improvements were acted on.
The report describes the analyses of transactions into cost elements and cost
centers (the latter correspond to the various functional departments) and



ANNEX 1
Page 7
points out that certain costs were understated due to defects in the alloca-
tion methods. In particular, depreciation was not allocated to cost centes
and hence it is not possible to determine from the cost statements whether, for
instance, mechanization programs have paid off. Interest on investments in
fixed assets is likewise not allocated to functional departments. IFC also
commented that although the analyses of transaction information is very fine
(for example, cost data are available for each field in the estate), neither
its use nor its retrieval is satisfactory.
22.       A somewhat unsatisfactory situation was therefore inherited from the
original investors, but there is little doubt that it has deteriorated since
1969. KSC recognized the problems and plan to appoint an expatriate Financial
Controller. The most important tasks of the new Financial Controller would
be to examine and improve systems and internal control and to introduce more
meaningful management reporting. It is desirable that both would be completed
before the K II factory opens; KSC might consider appointing financial con-
sultants familiar with the sugar industry to assist in the second task.
Conclusion
23.       KSC is currently profitable.  HVA's presence as Managing Director,
and the continuing service of several key expatriate technicians, are
important to KSC's continuing recovery and to the success of the Project,
even though improvements are desirable in the conduct of certain functions.
Cost increases will rapidly erode margins over the next few years, and the
continuing profitability of K I, on which the Project depends for part of its
finance, will depend on regular reviews of the price to be paid for its sugar
and on the immediate implementation of the necessary increases (para. 6.07).
July 16, 1974






TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Kilombero Sugar Company Limited: Operating Results Since Incorporation
Season                                  1962           1963          1964          1965            1966              1967             1968             1969              1970             1971              1972             1973
Year Ended April 30                     1963           i964          1965          1966             1967             1968             1969              1970             1971             1972              1973        Estimates 1974
Estate
Cane Fields - Acres                     1,816         2,827          4,562         5,352            7,087             6,8io            6,861            6,502             5,520            5,251             5,102            5,600
Tons of Cane                          105,280        144,61o       172,550       207,136          243,288           248,502          211,558          246,549           231,131          222,535           231,891          280,000
Tons of Cane per Acre                      58             51.2          37.8          38.7              34.3             36.5             30.8              37.9             41.9              42.4             45.5             50
Tons of Sugar                           9,570         11,020        17,700        20,598           21,303            24,582           21,985           26,265            25,931           23,796            23,153           29,140
Tone of Sugar per Acre                      5.3            3.9           3.9           3.8               3.0              3 6              3.2               4.o              4.7               4.5              4-5               5.2
Percent Sucrose in Cane                     9.1            7.6          10.3           9.9              8.8               9.9             10.4              10.7             11.2             10.7              10               10.4
Outgrosers
Cane Fields - Acres                                      -             -                               -              2,803            3,085            3,948             4,734            5,019             5,152            5,529
Tons of Cane                           17,230         19,910        27,400        40,300            55,176           65,887           62,110           95,320           123,881          135,708           126,924          140,000
Tone of Cane per Acre                     -              -             -             .                 -                 23 5             20.1              24.1             26.2             27.0              24.6             25.3
Tons of Sugar                           1,458          1,670         2,797         4,215             4,8oo            6,168            5,991             9,776           13,163           13,590            12,395            i4,56o
Tons of Sugar per Acre                    -              -             -             -                 -                  2.2              1.9              2.5               2.8              2.7               2.4               2.6
Percent Sucrose in Came                     8_5            8.4          10.2          10.5               8.7              9.4              9.6              10.3             io.6             10                 9.8              1o.4
vill
Milling Season - Days (gross)             221            140           182           209               223              239             n.a.               211              208               214              256         (say) 217
Percentage Milling Efficiency              63%            89%           83%           86%               86%              75%            n.a.                90%              91%               89%              66%       (say)  90%
Tons Cane per Milling Day                 928          1,085         1,333         1,382             1,555            1,769             n.a.             1,777            i,849            1,848             1,882            2,150
Tons Sugar Made                        11,028         12,690        20,497        24,813           26,103            30,750           27,976            36,041           39,093           37,386            35,548            43,700
Inome Statements (Ton million)
Revenue
Sugar Sales                                                                                          29.1              34.2             28.5              32.9             35.5             34.o              32.2  -           45.5
Other Revenue                                                                                          0.2              0.1              0.3               0.2              0.4              °.-3               4                0.2
Total Revenue                                                                                         29.9                                                                                    3              3.1SU7   5.7
Direct Costs, (costs)
Plantation (Tesh 1,000 per acre)                                                              (1.16)           (1.04)           (o.86)            (0.78)           (0.80)            (0.92)           104)              (1.29)
Total                                                                                               8.2              7.1              5.9               5.1              4.4               4                5.3               7.2
Harveetirg (Tsh per ton cane)                                                                 (13.6)           (16.7)           (17.4)            (16.4)           (15.0)            (14.8)           (15.6)            (13.4)
Total                                                                                               3.3              4.2              3.7               4.o              3.5               3.3              3.6               3.8
Cane Purchases (Tsh per ton case)                                                             (36 67)          (36.59)          (37.75)           (39.33)          (39.92)           (38.90)          (37.83)           (39.50)
Total                                                                                               2.0              a.4             -2.3               3.7              4.9               5.3              4.8               5.5
Mill (Tsh per ton sugar)                                                                      (217)            (198)            (198)             (171)            (155)             (180)            (249)             (245)
Total                                                                                               5-7              6.1              5.5               6.2              6.o               6.7              8.9              10.7
19.2             T977             17                19.0                                O2 72
Other Costs (Tsh million)
Overheads                                                                                             6io               7.4              8.4               8.3              7.2               6.1              6.3               7.7
Depreciatioci                                                                                          4.o              4.2              4.3               4.2              4.2               4.2               4.7              5.7
Amortization                                                                                           0.5              0.5              0.5               0.5              0.5               0. 5               5*5
Financial                                                                                              2.2              2.2              1.7
Total Costs                                                                                             31.9             34.1             32_3              32.0             30.7              30.9                               41.1       - 
Net Income/(Ln..) per year (Tsh million)                                                              ( 7.6)              0.2             (3.5)              1.1              5.2               3.4             (1.4)              4.6
June 13, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table 2
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Kilombero Sugar Company: Balance Sheets, 1970-1973
(Tsh '000)
1970        1971        1972         1973
Capital
Equity                         422496      42,496       36,000      36,000
Preference Shaxes                 770         770      36,ooo       36,000
Capital Reserves                4,973       4,973       11,087      10,950
Profit & Loss Account         (11 563)     6134                      1, 914
41,934     86,2 24T
Deferred Creditors
Loans                          18,857      18,857       2,800        2,686
Inccme Notes                   23,868      23,868         -_          -
7g,01       84,6529     89,224       87,578
Assets
Fixed Assets                   84,167      83s672       85,034     102,674
Less Depreciation          L28779)   .(30,955)    (34,091)    (38,022)
7- 5 38     52,717                   64, 652
Work in Progress                 63       3,888       14P828         197
554565                                64..5L749
Current Assets
Plantation                    4,1o4       4,494       5,109        5,404
Sugar in Store               1,510          395          452       1,704
Stores                       5,366        5,276       6,179        6,896
Debtors                       1,220       i,884        1,857       1,495
cash                          4 523       8 472       5,453        2,588
1U72-3      20,521      19,050       1b,067
Current Liabilities             ( 5 305)    ( 4 168)    ( 3,268)    ( 2 518)
___ _ 1     16,353       15,782      15,569
IntangibUe Assets                 3,838       3,519         -
Development ETpeftditure         12,785       12,785      12,785       12,785
Less amourts writteh cf       ( ff091)    ( 4,603)    ( 5,114)    ( 5 625)
11,701       7,671        7,160
Net Assets                           084,659             _89,224      87,578
May 14, 1974



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Current Price Formula for Sugar (set February, 1974)
Prices at ex-factory, wholesale, and retail at main wholesale
centers are set by Government. The current price formula is as follows:
Tsh/m ton
KSC, TPC,                /1
Mtibwa         Kagera           Average-
Ex-factory/Export              1,370           1,080             1,700
Excise/Duty                      413             413               413
Ex-factory (gross)           1,783           1,493             2,113
Sugar Reserve Fund /2
(a) basic                      230             230               230
(b) balance                    337             627                 7
Development Fund Levy            300             300               300
Administrative Expenses           18.70           18.70             18.70
Distribution Cost                 70              70                70
Marketing Agents Commission       13.30           13.30             13.30
Board Handling Charge             60              60                60
Total On-Costs               1,029           1,319               699
Price to W4holesalers          2,812           2,812             2,812
Wholesale Margin.               65              65                65
Price to Retailers             2,877           2,877             2,877
Retailers Margin               123             123               123
Retail Price /3                3,000           3j300
/1   The average price is derived from imported needs and domestic sugar from
the new (Mtibwa) plants, and the older established factories.
/2   The basic reserve is for application to sugar developments.  The balance
represents transfers to meet the cost of imports which are currently
2-3 times the domestic price.
/3   At main centers.
June 12, 1974






ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Supply and Demand Projections
1.        Between 1962 and 1972 sugar productica in Tanzania increased from
37,000 m ton to 90,000 m ton but has stagnated around this level for the past
5 years with existing factories close to capacity utilization. Sugar consump-
tion was growing on the average at the rate of 0.2 kg per head of population
annually during 1953-69. However, between 1969 and 1972, this rate accelerated
resulting in an annual average increase in consumption of about 0.8 kg of
sugar per head; it slowed down somewhat in 1973. This increase has been
attributed to income growth and more equitable income distribution, urbaniza-
tion, increased industrial use and also smuggling from Tanzania at a time when
the domestic wholesale price was below that in neighboring countries. An
increase in the controlled price in mid-1972 helped to rectify this situation,
and distribution difficulties caused by a shortage of railway wagons also
reduced consumption in 1973 but it remained well above domestic production.
2.        Although until recently self-sufficient, Tanzania, therefore, has
had to import large quantities of sugar since 1970. The following table
shows recent consumption, production, import quantity and costs and changes
in per capita consumption (excluding Zanzibar):
Consump-   Annual Per Capita
Import          tion         Consumption
Consump-   Produc-                 Costs         Increase             Increase
Year          tion      tion    Imports   (million Tsh)         p.a.    Kg        Kg    %
--------'000 m ton--------
1960-62       54         32        22            16               -     5.3        -    -
1966          70         70         -             -               3     6.1      0.2    2
1967          72         72         -             -               3     6.1        -    -
1968          80         81         5             3              11     6.5      0.4    6
1969          85         92         3             2               6     6.8      0.3    5
1970         100         87         4             3              18     7.8      1.0   15
1971         117         96        27            26              17     8.8      1.0   13
1972         133         89        50            72              14     9.8      1.0   11
1973 /1      136        105        50           131               2    10.0      0.2    2
/1   Estimates.
3.        Some increase in Tanzania's per capita GNP at current market prices
can be anticipated and Government's economic policy is aimed at a more even
income distribution. Sugar has a high income elasticity of demand at the
income level found in Tanzania and demand tends to be price inelastic. Con-
tinuing expansion in per capita consumption can, therefore, be expected-



ANNEX 3
Page 2
probably above the rate of the 1960's but not at the exceptionally high rate
experienced in 1969-72. Tanzania's per capita annual consumption of 9.2 kg
in 1972 was less than adjacent countries: in Kenya it was 16.6 kg, in Uganda
14.8 kg and in Zambia 14.9 kg. All of these are low by international stan-
dards however (e.g. UK 52.3 kg, USA 50.3 kg, Japan 30.4 kg) and it seems
reasonable to assume that the trend of per capita consumption will be a steady
rise in the immediate future.  Constant absolute increases have, therefore, been
assumed in Table 1.
4.        Government is actively pursuing finance for enlargement of Kagera:
work is in hand on Mtibwa and new investment is scheduled at Arusha Chini.
The timing of expansion plans for these existing sugar factories is, however,
uncertain. The assumptions for future production shown in Table 2 are ten-
tative and possibly optimistic. On the basis of these and with an annual
per capita consumption increase of 0.4 kg, there would be a small surplus
from the domestic sugar production between 1976-84, but at higher level of
annual increase in per capita consumption of 0.8 kg a considerable shortfall
will occur. A position between these two levels may be expected with an
annual increase in per capita consumption of about 0.6 kg and given the
estimated increase in sugar production, the country would have a deficit
in most years between 1973 and 1984 (Table 1).
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KILOMPERO SUGAR PROJECT
Estiaated Population. Per Capita and total Sugar Requirement and Production 1/
A.  With per capita consumption increase                 B. With per capita consumption increase                   C.  With per capita consumption increase
at 0.4 kg per annum                                     at 0.6 kg per annum                                        at 0.6 kg per annom
Per  capita           Total              Surplus          Per  capita          Total             Surplus          Per  capita          Total             Surplus
Population 2/    Production 3/    Consumptien            Requiresient          Deficit          Consumption       Requirement          Deficit           Consumption    Requireaent             Defidit
Year      (million)         ('000 a tona)                           0  a tontg)                                (kg)        ('000  m tons)    ('000 m tons)            (kg         ('000 a tons)       ('000 m tons)
1973          13.62              105                10.0               136                 -31                10.0             136                 -31                 10.0             136                -3
1974          14.00              115               10.4               146                  -31                10.6             148,                -33                10.8              151                -36
1975          14.39              123               10.8               155                  -32                11.2             161                 -38                11.6              167                -4C
1976          14.79              171                11.2              166                    5                11.8             175                 - 4                 12.4             183                -12
1977          15.20              184               11.6               176                    8                12.4             188                 - 4                13.2              201                -17
1978          15.62              224                12.0              187                   37                13.0             203                  21                 14.0             219                  5
1979          16.05              234               12.4               199                   35                13.6             218                  16                 14.6             237                - 3
1980          16.49              245                12.8               211                  34                14.2             234                  11                 15.6             257                -12
1981          16.95              255                13.2              224                   31                14.8             251                   4                 16.4             278                -23
1982          17.42              264               13.6               237                   27                15.4             268                 - 4                 17.2             300                -36
1983          17.90              272               14.0               251                   21                16.0             286                 -14                 18.0             322                -50
1984          18.40              275                14.4              265                   10                16.6             305                 -30                 18.8             346                -71
1985          18.91              278                14.8              280                  - 2                17.2             325                 -47                 19.6             371                -93
11 Exluding Zanzibar.
21 Estimated increase at 2.8°. per annum.
3/See Annex 3,Table 2.
,Tune 12, 1974



ANNEX 3
Table 2
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Estimated Sugar Produotion
('000 m tons)
-------------- Existing Factories   -----------       -- New Factories --
Arusha                                                                          Grand
Year   Chini    Kilombero I    Mtibwa    Kagera    Total    Kagera   Kilombero II   Total
1973    50           44             X       7        105                                105
1974    56           45                     7        115        -           -           115
1975    60           45            11       7        123        -           -           123
1976    66           45            19       7        137        -           34          171
1977    76           45            23       7        151        -           33          184
1978    80           45            26       -        151       30           43         224
1979    80           45            29       _        154       36           44         234
1980    80           45            33       _        158       43           44         245
1981    80           45            37                162       49           44         255
1982    80           45            38       _        163       56           45         264
1983    80           45           -.42      _        167       60           45         272
1984    80           45            45       _        170       60           45          275
1985    80           45            48       _        173       60           45          278
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Rainfall in mm, Period May 1961 - April 1973
at the site of Kilombero Sugar Estate
12-Year
1961/62 1962/63 1963/64 1964/65 1965/66 1966/67 1967/68 1968/69 1969/70 1970/71 1971/72 1972/73   Mean
May      124       87      45       48      73      129     27       135     102       23     118      241      11.5
Jun       55        6      58        5       1       33      52       68      18        7      23      -        27
Jul       75        9       5        4      15        3      56      -         7        7      38        8       19
Aug        7       54       1       18      12        5      14      -         4        5     -          4       10
Sep       37       15       1        1      33       15      71       10     -         47     -        115      29
Oct      1.87      38      18       22      49       22     .52      .9       14        9      26      .24       39
Nov      253       40     393        9     10.8      95      9.9    151       87      - .      41      303      140
Dec       7       115    776        62     224       66     I67      122      15      153     102    -1         172
Jan      277      186     207      216     112       92     172       94     436      121     108      198      1
Feb      146      196     196      194     193      128     119      126     230       82     244      171      169
Mar      278      490     367      316     207      167     294      164     250   .228   . 324    .142    .269
Apr      293      356     388      284     298      298     658      658     216      385     344      4o5      382
2,207   1,592   1,797   179   1,325   1,053   2 kii   1,537   1,379   1,067   1,368   1,752   1,556
Source:  Kilombero Sugar Estate Reports.
Months during the normal milling season when rainfall exceeded 150 mm are underlined.
June 12, 1974






ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Land Development and Cane Production
1.        The agronomic conditions of the Lower Ruembe Valley are good for
cane growing, even better than the area of the existing Kilombero Sugar
Estate (K I). The Project estate (K II) will grow 3,500 acres of irrigated
cane and 3,800 acres rainfed, and cane will be milled from 2,200 existing
outgrowers' cane as well as 2,400 acres of new outgrowers' cane. K I will
replace its old outgrowers' land by development of 2,000 outgrowers' acres
in the Msolwa valley, S and SW of its own area.
2.        The Project area is shown on the map.  Sections B, C are assigned
to the new estate. Most of Section B will be irrigated from the Great Ruaha
River, Section C, parallel to the western border will be developed for rain-
fed cane. It receives in general a little more rainfall than the remaining
valley area. The outgrowers' land in Section D will be developed as a com-
pact cane area for the Kilosa District Development Corporation. It should
have a layout similar to K II's cane area in order to optimalize land use,
extention services, yields and cane transport. Areas A, E, F and G are
allocated to outgrowers who will devote part to food-crop production.
Yield Capacity of the Planned Cane Land
3.        Based on mean cane yields of K I the new cane area is expected to
produce the following quantities of cane per year, after full expansion,
excluding 240 acres of nurseries:
3,260 acres (28%) of irrigated cane
x 45 tons cane/acre                    -         146,700 tc (35%)
3,800 acres (33%) of rainfed cane
x 36 tons cane/acre                    -         136,800 tc (32%)
4,600 acres (39%) of outgrower cane
x 30 tons cane/acre                    -         138,000 tc (33%)
11,660                         Total                421,500 tc
Sugar outturn is expected to average over 10.5% at which production of sugar
would be 44,300 tons. This outturn can be achieved by the 2,400 TCD capacity
factory, working 7 days a week, in 176 days, or 193 allowing for 10%. down-
time. The milling days available depend upon:
(1) the ripening period of the cane, and
(2) harvesting conditions.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Both factors are defined by climatic conditions, particularly rainfall. Rain-
fall figures are given in Annex 5 (it is reasonable to assume the existing and
the new areas, 7.5 km apart, have similar characteristics). The biological
and operational influences of monthly rainfall are difficult to guage objec-
tively, but ripening data and harvesting experience at K I indicate that a mean
monthly rainfall of 150 mm does not hamper the ripening process or delay har-
vesting operations at all and, depending on the rainfall pattern, only short
delays occur in months with rather higher rainfall. Only in 2 out of 12
recorded years were the May figures for rainfall higher than 150 mm, and this
is the normal month to start milling. November is wetter 5 times out of 12
and December 3 times out of 12, but only twice in the 12 years was there less
than 6 full months with rainfalls below 150 mm. Experience on K I has been
that adequate ripening and milling days will be found in the 234 day-period
May 1st - December 20th: a period which gives a 33% margin over the needs
of a 2,400 TCD factory.
4.        The new factory is targeted to start its first milling season by
September 1, 1976. Up to that date all cane grown in the Project area will
be milled at K 1. To achieve this, in 1975/76 K I would have to increase its
milling capacity to 2,250 TCD or rely on an abnormally long milling season.
This increase is, however, under 5% and is expected to be readily achievable
by an established factory. (If there were a shortfall in the target, cane
would be left for harvesting until the following season: the loss in sugar
content would be at least offset by increased cane yields and the delay in
obtaining returns would not have significant effect on the returns to the
operation). For the milling season 1976/77, K II's first season of operations,
a harvesting area including existing outgrowers of 7,540 acres is expected,
which would produce 323,000 tons of cane. This can be handled in 148 days,
allowing for 10% downtime.
5.        It is planned, after the first milling season, to increase cane
production as quickly as possible. This would necessitate a crash pro-
gram for land clearing and preparation, followed directly by the planting of
cane. The projected schedules of land clearing and preparation for milling
cane, cane planting, harvesting, and sugar yields in the Project area are
shown in Tables 1 and 2, and are summarized below:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Crop Year       74/75 75/76 76/77 77/78  78/79 79/80 80/81 81/82 82/83
Clearing &
preparation
acres          2,160 3,880 2,420 1,240
Milling cane
acres         2,200 3,660 7,540 10,320 11,660 11,660
Cane yields
('000 m tons)    66   138   323    410    439    415  415  418  426
Sugar yields
('000 m tons)      7    15    34      43     46      44   44   44   45
Milling days       31    62   135    171    183    173  173  174  178
Land Clearing and Preparation Schedule
6.        The land clearing and preparation schedule allows for:
(a) a program enabling the estate to develop 11,660
acres of millable cane land and 240 acres of nurseries:
a total of 11,900 acres in four years;
(b) the development of equal acreages for the 5 cuttings within
each kind of estate cane as follows:
5 blocks of 700 acres for irrigated estate cane of which
240 would be in nurseries = 3,500 acres
5 areas of 760 acres for rainfed estate cane   3,800 acres
within 5 years.
(c) the development of equal acreages for the 5 cuttings of out-
growers' cane, incorporating the existing 2,200 acres and
adding 2,400 acre new fields, resulting in 5 x 920 acres
= 4,600 acres of cane within 5 years;
(d) with (a) above, land clearing and preparation, started
in the dry season (May-Sept.) of 1974/75 will be finished
in 1977/78. To ensure timely land clearing and preparation
and the planting, these will be executed by the estate on
behalf of the outgrowers at cost. Starting in 1978/79 all
the outgrowers' planting will be done by the estate annually.
7.        Tractor and equipment requirements for land preparation and cane
operations are set out in Annex 7.
July 16, 1974






TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
K II: New Land Development Schedule
(acres)
197V475  1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79  1979/80 1980/81
Irrigated Estate
Nursery*                                                      2410      I240     40       -
Plant Cane                                                    46           0       0466   -
- Cutting II                     _         Tro    2,70      /  700         700    /700      -
Cutting I                       -        -                             1  00  1 700       -
Cutting IV                                     - -                     1          7
Cutting V-                      -        _          _ -             }/    -    1 700      -
Uprooted                                            700        700        700
Rainfed Estate
Plant Cane-                  C7760)    (    6CJD                         760     760       60
Cutting II                      _                             70o        70    /760       760
Cutting- III                    -        -        2,060       220760   ! 760              760
Cutting IV                      _        _                          220        ! 760 760
Cutting V                       _                   - -             / 1,300       220     760
Cutting VI                      _        _          -                        X   540        -
Uprooted                                                       760        760     760
Rainfed New Outgrowers
Plant Cane                               -                                       480 ,0    480
Cutting II I1.80   4 480
Cutting III                     -    _         _          _ 96           96o      11.80  / 480
Cutting IV           .          _        _                         -     480| 960.   480
Cutting V                                -          _                             -        48
Uprooted                                                    - 1480        0BO      140
* Allows for 1 acre seed cane for every 7 of planting in first 3 years, and thereafter 1:10.
C) - new land.  Arrows indicate treatment of land in subsequent years.'
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
K II: Cane Production Schedule (at Average Yields)
(a tons)
197M/76    1976/77    1977/78    1M/79   1979/80    1981/82    1982/83
Irrigated Ext te
Plant Cane                 46,800   120,000    21,600       27,600     27,600      27,600
Cutting II                   -         5,000   135,000      35,000     35,000      35,000
Cutting III                  -          -         4l500    94,500       31,500     31,500
Cutting IV                   -          -          -          -        56,000      28,000
Cutting V                    _-__                                        -         21,000
Total                   46,800    125,000    161,100    157,100    150.100    1143,100     43,100
Ranfed Eatate
Plant Cane                 30,400      8,800    30,400    30,400       30,400      30,400
Cutting II                   -        90,640      9,680     33,340     33,440      33,440
Cutting III                  -          _        76,220      8,140    28,120      28,120
Cutting IV                   -          -          -        65,920      7,040     21,320
Cutting V                    -          -          -          -         35,100     5,940
Cutting VI                   _          -                                                       - _,880
Total                  _     _     99,440    116.300    137.800    134,100    134,100    1314,I00
Rinfed, New Outgr=aero
Plant Cane                   -        31,680     31,680    15,840    15,840        15,840     15,840
Cutting II-                  -          -        33,600     33,600      16,800     16,800     16,800
Cutting III                  -          -          -        28,800     28,800      14,400     14,400
Cutting IV                                                              i _  -  -  12,960  25,920  12,960
Cutting V                    _          _          _          _          -          -         12,000
Total                      _        31,680    65,280    78,240    74,4W         72.960     72,000
EWisting Outgrorers          66,ooo    66,         66,                       ooo     66,ooo     66,ooo
Total Cane                3,2oo    322,120  408,680    439,140   4214 600   416,160    415,200              H
Sugar Production
(at 10.5%)                 15,000     33,800    42,900      46,100    44,600       43,700     43,600
June 12, 1974



ANNEX 6
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Outgrowers Development and Returns
1.        Sugarcane would be grown on 4,600 acres by Project outgrowers in
Ruembe valley. Outgrowers would consist of (a) 3 ujamaa villages with 240
families, farming 960 acres; (b) Kilosa District Development Corporation
(KDDC), farming 1,560 acres; and (c) 122 individual families and 2 estates,
cultivating 2,080 acres (Table 1). Of the total area to be farmed, 2,400
acres would be developed over three years under the Project, and 2,200 acres
are now under sugarcane grown by (a) 126 ujamaa families in 2 villages farming
about 120 acres, and (b) 122 individual families and 2 estates growing 2,080
acres of sugarcane. This latter cane is milled by K I, and the diversion of
cane to K II would be offset by expansion of acreages of existing outgrowers
in Msolwa valley.
2.        Under the Project, Kilombero Sugar Company (KSC), would be respon-
sible for providing extension services and drawing up of annual planting pro-
grams. It would clear and prepare land, plant and replant cane for ujamaa
villages and KDDC at cost. It would supply to all outgrowers seed cane and
would provide all cane transportation to ujamaa villages and KDDC, and for
about 50% of cane produced by other outgrowers excepting the two existing
estates. KSC would purchase all cane produced in accordance with the annual
planting programs. It would also construct roads and drains in the new
outgrowers areas. Appropriate agreements including delivery schedule, prices
to be paid, and charges for services rendered by KSC would be executed between
KSC and the outgrowers.
UJamaa Villages
3.        The two existing ujamaa villages, like other ujamaa villages, are
communally organized for farming, storage, marketing and other activities.
Each of these has an elected Chairman, a Secretary and a Treasurer with
various committees viz. Executive, Planning, Works, Trading, Education, Health
and Concilliation. A Primary School Teacher and a Medical Dresser reside in
each village. Food crops produced communally by a village are shared according
to the needs of all the families including the teacher and the medical dresser,
and proceeds from marketable surplus if any and of cash crops are distributed
to the families according to their labor input for such crops. A portion of
the sale proceeds is used to pay the teacher and the medical dresser who also
sometimes help in farming operations. The rest goes to a reserve fund which
may be used to meet communal needs of villages such as purchase of a grain
husking machine, expansion of a school building or establishment of a village
hall. Ujamaa villages when fully developed are to be registered as multi-
purpose cooperative societies.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        The two ujamaa villages - Kitete, with a population of 71 families,
and Kidogobasi, with a population of 55 families - have about 120 acres of
sugarcane. The other principal crops are rice and maize and pulses. These
two villages, together with another village to be established, would have
a total of about 960 acres of sugarcane, of which 840 acres would be developed
under the Project. Each village on an average would have about 80 families
growing about 320 acres of sugarcane as a cash crop and 160 acres of rice
(4 acres of cane and 2 acres of rice per family). It would be possible for
a family of 2 adults and 3 children to care for 4 acres of sugarcane and 2
acres of rice (Table 2). Two acres of rice would meet the stable food re-
quirement of a family (Table 3).
5.        KSC would develop sugar land and plant cane for ujamaa villages,
to which it would be handed over after planting. In an average ujamaa village
with about 320 acres of sugarcane, about 130 acres would be developed and
planted with cane in Year 1 (1975-76) and Year 2 (1976-77) and the remainder
in Year 3 (1977-78). The initial operations would consist of treedozing,
clearing, levelling, ripping, heavy duty and shallow harrowing, furrowing,
supply of seed cane, planting and first uphilling. 1/ For these operations,
and road and drain construction, KSC would charge the full cost estimated at
Tsh 2,450 per acre in 1973-74. These costs will be met by a 6 year loan with
interest at 9% annually and deductions would be applied to cane deliveries
which would come to Tsh 27.50 per ton for 48,000 tons of sugarcane. In cases
where land would be handed over later, proportionate deductions from the
charges would be made based on the profit accrued to KSC from such land. KSC
would perform annual mechanical uphilling operations at a 1973-74 base price
of Tsh 43 per acre. At replanting, KSC would prepare land and plant cane
(stubble and deep ploughing, harrowing, furrowing, planing, hilling, seed
cane and planting) at a base price of Tsh 1,716 per acre. KSC would provide
cane transportation for which the base price is estimated to be Tsh 10 per
ton. All the charges would be deducted by KSC at the time of advance payment
for cane delivered. The rest of the operations viz. weeding; clearing ditches,
internal roads and trash removal; pushing cane; cutting and loading, would be
performed by ujamaa villages. All operations for rice would be the villagers'
responsibility. Tsh 8,000 would be provided to purchase farm tools for an
ujamaa village of 80 families (Tsh 100 per family) as a short-term loan by
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) at 8-1/2% interest p.a., payable
in 3 years with capital repayment in the 3rd year.
6.        At full development i.e. from the eighth year (1982-83), an average
ujamaa village of 80 families would have an annual net disposable income of
some Tsh 346,810 prior to deductions, including a contribution of 10% to a fund
reserved for communal needs. Thus, at full development, annual net cash
farm income of an ujamaa family would be about Tsh 4,340 in addition to the
value of subsistence consumption of rice of about Tsh 570 and Tsh 250 for
other farm produce viz. pulses, eggs, milk and meat (Table 4). The income
from sugarcane compares favorably with the present income of a farm family in
1/   The process of re-shaping ridges.



ANNEX 6
Page `
the area growing mainly rice or rice and maize. Calculated on the basis
of mandays, also, it would be more profitable to grow sugarcane. Average net
income per manday from sugarcane would be over Tsh 14.20, fro-m rize Tsh 3.00
and from maize Tsh 2.00 (Table 5).
7.        The two existing ujamaa villages, one of which has applied for regis-
tration as a cooperative society, and the new one to be established would
require considerable guidance in the maintenance of cane fields and harvesting.
Provision, therefore, has been made for two extension officers in KSC, who
under the guidance and control of KSC's field department would provide necessary
extension services to ujamaa villages and other outgrowers. Development of
these villages will have to be carefully watched and their production capa-
bility evaluated before it is decided to expand the three ujamaa villages
and/or to establish more villages which would take over additional sugarcane
land developed by KSC.
Kilosa District Development Corporation (KDDC)
8.        In accordance with Government's policy for development of District
Government operated organizations to run commercial enterprises, including
agricultural estates for selected estate crops like sugar, the Kilosa District
Development Corporation (KDDC) was established by the Government as a limited
Company in February 1973 with a share capital of Tsh 500,000. The objectives
of the company include crop, livestock and fish production, establishment of
abbatoirs, small industries, processing plants and cold-storage facilities,
road and river transportation and assistance to cottage industries in estab-
lishing markets. KDDC is currently operating one petrol station and proposes
to establish a goat ranch and, in partnership with adjacent district develop-
ment corporations, introduce a rural bus transportation service.
9.        Over a period of 3 years (1975-76 to 77-78) KSC would develop 1,500
acres of sugar land for KDDC (Table 1). It would clear and prepare land,
supply seed cane and plant sugarcane. For these operations and road and drain
construction, KSC would charge the full cost estimated at Tsh 2,410 per acre.
In accordance with standard policy towards DDCs, twenty-five percent of these
costs would be borne by the Government as a grant and the balance provided
as a long-term loan by KSC. Deduction in respect of this loan would be applied
to cane deliveries: on the basis of a 9% annuity over 11 years this would
come to Tsh 12.30 per ton for 468,000 tons of sugarcane. KDDC would be
responsible for all other operations (weeding, uphilling, clearing ditches,
internal roads and trash; inter-row cultivation, pushing cane, cutting and
loading).   KSC would also perform subsequent land preparation and re-planting
operations (stubble and deep ploughing, harrowing, planning, furrowing,
hilling, supply of seed cane and planting) estimated at 1973-74 price of
Tsh 1,716 per acre.   KSC would provide cane transportation at a cost of
about Tsh 10 per ton. All charges would be deducted by KSC from the advance
payment to be made at cane delivery. KSC would draw up annual planting
programs, schedule of harvesting and provide extension services free of
charge.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
10.       Office building, store, and houses for the staff and 50% of labor
would be constructed for KDDC under its supervision and a vehicle provided.
25% of these costs would be borne by Government as a grant and the remainder
would be borrowed from TRDB as a long-term loan repayable in 10 years with
a 4 year grace and an interest rate of 7-1/2% per annum. Working capital
would be borrowed as a short-term loan from TRDB with-an annual rate of
interest of 8-1/2%.
11.       At a price of Tsh 50.00 per ton of cane with 10.5% sucrose content
the rate of return to KDDC would be 22%. At a cane price of Tsh 45 per ton
the rate of return would be 12%. An income statement and cash forecast for
KDDC is at Table 6.
12.       KDDC has a Board of Directors which has appointed a Managing
Director, a Secretary and an Accountant. The sugar estate would be operated
as a self-contained unit with its own staff, including a Manager, an Account-
ant, Field Officer, other staff and laborers.
Constraints and Safeguards
13.       District Government operated commercial enterprises, especially in
the field of estate development, is a new venture. Lack of experience in
such operations has prompted KDDC to obtain KSC's assistance in initial land
clearance and preparation and planting of cane seeds and subsequent land
preparation and planting at the time of re-planting. KDDC would receive
KSC's technical and managerial advice when necessary and its field officers
would be trained by KSC. Special attention is required to proper maintenance
of accounts and close supervision of its operations should be given by District
and Regional authorities.
Existing Outgrowers
14.       Other than the existing outgrowers in the two ujamaa villages, about
122 families and two estates, Nahdi Kidodi and Riva Saw Mills, would continue
to grow sugarcane on about 2,080 acres. The families belong to Kidodi Cane
Growers Association, Kidogobasi Group Farmers Association, villages Maarifa
Sukari and Saidi Legeza. KSC would draw up their annual planting program.
All cultural operations would be performed by the outgrowers. KSC would
continue to follow the present practice of providing transportation at cost
to outgrowers needing it - expected to be all except the two estates.
Price and Payment Procedures
15.       Cane would vary with sucrose content.  The 1973-74 price used for
projections is Tsh 50.00 per ton with 10.5% sucrose. Advances equivalent to
about 85% of the price less deductions for services by KSC would be paid by
KSC to the outgrowers at the time of delivery; the remainder of the price
would be paid monthly after analysis and processing.
July 16, 1974



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Outgrowers Development Schedule
(acres)
Uiamaa Villages                  Kilosa District Development Corp.
New                                        New
Planted   Re-planted   Ratoon              Planted   Re-planted   Ratoon              Existing    Outgrowers
Cane        Cane       Cane    Total       Cane        Cane       Cane    Total   Outgrowers        Total
1975-76         336          -            -     336       624           -           -      624       2,200         3,160
1976-77         336          -          336    672        624           -          624   1,248       2,200        4,120
1977-78         168          -          672    840        312           -        1,248   1,560       2,200        4,600
1978-79          -          168         672    840         -           312       1,248   1,560       2,200         4,600
1979-80          -          168         672    840         -           312       1,248   1,560       2,200         4,600
1980-81          -          168         672    840         -           312       1,248   1,560       2,200         4,600
1981-82          -          168         672    840         -           312       1,248   1,560       2,200         4,600
1982-83          -          168         672    840         -           312       1,248   1,560       2,200        4,600
1983-84          -          168         672    840         -           312       1,248   1,560       2,200         4,600
1984-85          -          168         672    840         -           312       1,248   1,560       2,200        4,600
0
June 12, 1974



ANNEX 6
Table 2
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
1.  Labor Reauirement over a Year
(per acre)
-      ----- Sugarcane -----------        ------------ Rice -----------
Months    Item                 No. of man-days       Item            No. of man-days
Jan/Feb   Clearing trash               5.0           Cultivation           40.0
Inter-row cultivation       2.0                                    -
Weeding                     6.0
Pushing cane                0.5
13.5                                 40.0
March      Clearing ditches            3.0           Weeding                 5.0
April                                   -            Weeding                 5.0
May/June                                -            Harvesting &          35.0
threshing
Nov/Dec   Cutting                     15.0
Loading                    15.0
Clearing ditches            3.0
Clearing roads              0.5
33.5
Total No. of man-days                 50.0    Total No. of man-days        85.0
2. Labor Requirement and Availability over a year for Sugarcane & Rice
-------------- Man-days Required --------------                  Man-days Available
Months   Sugarcane (4 acres)        Rice (2 acres)       Total      (1 family) 1/
Jan/Feb            54                     80              134            144 2/
March              12                     10               22             60
April                -                     10              10             60
May/June            -                     70               70            120
Nov/Dec           134                       -             134            144 2/
11  1 family consists of 2 adults and 3 children (3 children   1 adult).
2/ In a busy month an adult can work 24 days a month. Normally he would
work about 20 days a month.
June 12, 1974



ANNEX 6
Table 3
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Subsistance Rice Requirement per Family (2 adults, 3 children)
Requirement
Adults 16 oz. clean rice per day 16 x 2 = 32 oz.
Children 10 oz.clean rice per day lOx 3 = 30 oz.
62 oz. (say 4 lbs.)
Total daily requirement = 4 lbs.
= 1.81 kg
Total amount requirement of clean rice (1.81 x 365) = 661 kg
Production
Yield of paddy rice per acre               560 kg
Yield from 2 acres                       1,120 kg
Seed requirement (40 kg per acre x 2)   - 80 kg
1,040 kg
Less husk (337%)                         -344 kg
Total clean rice available                 696 kg
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KiILOMBERO SUGAR FROJECT
Modal US Q-- Fare Bodget 1/
(Income Statement and Cash Forecast.)
(Tah)
Unit      1975-76        1976-77         1977-78        1978-79         1979-80        19NO-81         1981-82         1982-83        1983-84         1984-85
Unit   Cost   No.    Coat   No.    Coat   Na.    Coat   No.    Coat   No.    Coat   Na.    Cost    Na.    Coat   No.    Coat   Na.    Cost    Na.   Cast
V AWE OF FRODi7CT IONS
Sogaroans                                                                 -          27g,784        635,392         700,800        700,800         700,800        700,800          700,800         700,800       700,800
RiNc 2/                                                               49,260          49 260         49 280          49,280         49,280          49,280         492             49 .280         49280          49 280
Other achaiataceo ptoductian 3/                                       20.000          20.000         20.000          20.000         20 000          20.000         20 000          20.000          20.000         20.000
Total                                                                  69,280        348,064        704,672         770.080        770,080         770,080         770,080        770,080         770,080        770,080
OP8RATtNG Co8TS
Face tools                                       Family  100       80  8,000                                                           -               -               -              -               -               -
Land preparation.. asd c nend                                             -                                     64  160,896    64  160,896    64  160.896    64  160,896    64  160,896    64  160,896    64  160,896
pl.aatri   charge far na-plantin8 4/             50
A ...al aphilitag charge S/                        ae                     -       128  7,296    256  16,128   320   20.160   320   20,160   320   20,160   320   20,160   320   20,160   320   20,160   320   20,160
C.n_ traaspo-tatian 6/                             ton     2                          34.12a        521.56          134.1400       134,40          134,400         134,400        134 400         134 400         134,400
Rio-aaad j/                                        2r27                 55,0           3,520          352 -50                        30               5005                           S03
Total Operatitg Coat.                                                  11,520         65,728        141.504         318,976        318,976         318,976        318,976         318,976         318,976        318,976
Gross ear8ia                                                           57,760        262,336        563,168         451,104        451,104         451,104        451,104         451,104         451,104        451,104
CASH INFLOW
Groan  -acgia                                                          57,760        282,336        563,168         451,104        451,104         451,104        451,104         451,104         451,104        451,104
Lass  behiternca  -ceon ptioo Sl                                     65 760         6.5760          65,760          65.760         65.760         65.760          65 760          65 760         63.760          65.760
Net cach incote                                                        (8,000)       216,576        497.408         385344         35,3444           5            3344  3.4.385.344               385.344        383.344
Iaa fto  land dmvs1opaent9/                                      128 379.776   128 417,792    64  229,760                                                                                             -
lanfr rfaro tool. 150/                                                 A nn              -              -              -               -              -
Total Caah InElea                                                     379,776        634,368        727,168         385,344        385,344         385,344        385,344         385,344         385,344         385,344
OUTFLOW
L.nd deve-Ip.ect .o.t 11/                                         128 379,776   128 417,792    64 229,760               _              _               _                              _               _
Debt sectitiog for land developantt  12/                                  _          116,160        239.360         264.800        264,000         264,000         172A80                             _               _
Debt sarvicing far  hort-tera loan 17                                     -              660          8,680
Total C..h OGtfloc                                                    379,776        534,632        477,800         264,000        264,000         264,000         172,480            -               -               -
Nat Cash Flos liosti-o                                                    -           99,376         249,368        121,344        121,344         121,344         212,864        385,344         385,344         385,344
INCOME
Ujia. village net ac.h iacoee                                             -           99,736         249,368        121,344         121,344        121,344         212,864        385,344         385,344         385,344
Rea fvoted 14/                                                            -             .73          2493            2.                     12.1412.14             21.26           3.3  3           .51 34        38.534
Uja     ia vIllage cot dipaaabla taah lace inc8e9 -                                  69.763         224,431        109,210        109,210         109.210         1              346;810         346  10.        3468   0
Ujeaa famIly cot each taco lccoane 15/                                    -            1,122           2,805          1,365           1,365          1,365           2,395          4,335           4,335           4,335
Vale, af Uje    f-ily aebhitaant   16g/                                   822            822             822            822             822            822             822             822            822             822
NLot Ujaa. fatily face incore                                             822          1,944           3,627          2.187           2,187          2,187           3,217           5,157          5,157           5,157
1/  For a village of 80 familis.  Oath fomily -auld Srot  4 acros of  ega-c.ans and 2  cres of rice.  Total- c-oage of crop:  3ogarcane 320 at, rice 160 *c
2/ Total rite atrt:5e- 160; Average Yield @ 560; price @ Tah 0.55 par kg of onheshed eite.
3/ Other sheblatanca prodaction inclodea sane poleco, meat, egga aed ailk at abont Teh 250 per fa=ily.
4/ Base prece per ocre (73-74) - TSh 1,716.  With 10% p.s  price totrenaeupto 77-78, priom per acre ftoo 78-79  -old be Tah 2,514
5/ eace  price  per acre (73-74) - T,h 43; with 107 ps. price Ocreaspto 77-78, peit  per acre in  76-77 wuld be T.h 57 and icon 77-70 ocaseds 5,4 63.
6/ BseC prIce per toe in 1973-74 - TBh 10;  itch 107 pa. prico incceaoenpto 77-78,pri-e per acre ic 76-73 could he T.h 13 and ftro  77-78 a             Toards Th 14.
7/ @ 40 ki per Itro; prien T1h 0.44 kg (for 160 acre,)
8/ @ 1,040 kg of  hchukked rice sqoivolent to 696 kg of cl..n  rite pcr faily (See ..610 3), at 50k 372 pet Gully (Tek SS/hg of unkoeked rice) *nd other
produce oi 0000 poleoe, us-t eggc aed =ilk ot 0bout Tsh 250 per faily (Tah 50 per per.on)
9/ Laos for landoevelopaonc cost (inItIal land tloeceg, preporotlon, cooc soed, plantIng, first uphilling,  -ooda end bridge. ). See f--otote  11 end ;2
10/ Borroved fro= TRDB vith at Intecest rare of 8ly p.o. (taco cools replaced cvery eleventh yaaas)
11/  Operatio.e perforted by KSC ot Teh 2,967 (75-76), 3,264 (76-77), 3,590 (77-78) pot acr-; bs..  price it 73-74 - T5h 2,452 per acr-. Prio i-ncre..e 9 10. p..a
upto 77-78
12/ For I.od devolep-ec  o,It dedo-td by KSC fce prIce of cnonthe boeI of 95. oc-ity ove  6 yea-oIt Tsb 27.50 per Iot lot 40,000 tot  of ogr
13/ Rep-id over 3 ye_rs, with flll copitaL repPynect in the 3rd yer.
14/  107. of village incomt
S/ Net vtilage dieoFsable flrm income distributed to 80 fuilis(etch faily of 2 rdolct rnd 3 childrec on I  average).
6/  lee footnote 8.
'Tcc  L2, 1974



ANNEX 6'
Table 5
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Estimated of Average Costs, Yields and Cash Income from Farmers'
Crops per Acre
Item                              Rainfed G,anq     Rainfed Rice      Rainfed Maize
Land development, preparation,
seedcane planting/replanting         456
and uphilling
Cane transportation 2                  300                 -                 -
Farm tools                              20                20                20
Seed                                    -                 22                 5
Totai Cost                           776                42.               25
Yield/acre                              30 tons          560 kg            500 kg
Price (Tsh)j/                           50.00/ton          0.55/kg           0.35/kg
Gross Income (Tsh)                   1,500.00            308.00            175.00
Net Income (Tah)                       724.00            266.00           150.00
1Man-days                                50.               85               80
Income per man-day                      144.8              3.13              1.88
2 At base prices for costs and sugarcamD.
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KIlO3ER0  SUGAR PROJECT
Ril.s. Distriet D-velpo.e-c tarnoaration (RDDC) Farm Budvet
Ta-coa Statement and Cash Forecast
(Tab)
75-76     76-77      77-78     78-79      79-80     80-81      81-82      82-83     83-84      84-85      85-86      86-87     87-8R      86-89      S9-9O
INCOORB STATEMENT
Ragatosme iscoow,e                                            -   1,359,072 3,097,536 3,416,400 3,416,400 3,416,400 3,416,400 3,416,400 3,416,400 3418,400 3,416,400 3,416,400 3,416,400 3,416,400 3,416,400
OPERATING COSTS
Staff Coats                                               242,409   529,361   779,135   797,881   797.881   797,881   797,881   797,881   797,881   797,881   797,881   797,881   797,881   797,881   797,881
Farm Teals 6/                                              10,900    17,820    10,527       1,210                  -          -         -          -          -      12,100    19,602    10,527        1,210        -
Land preparstia, seed ena. and pleating.
Conagma ior replantlng.                                     -          -         -      784,368   784,368   784,368   784,388   784,368   784,368   784,368   784,368   784,368   784,368   784,368   784,368
Crpe t,-an rp1-tnt 1m- /.                                   -    *27,898   594,048   852,100   655,200   655,200   655,200   655,200   655,200   655,200   655,200   655,200   655,200   653,200   855,200
Vehicle runming, Mnntoeoamcm  sod rmpmOroW               18,150    09,965    22,962    22,962    22,962    22,962    22,962    22,962    22,962    22,962    22,962    22,962    22,962    22,962    22,962
BuIldiog rminte..aoelJ                                      -       37,268    54,505    67,178    8758    67,178    67,178    67,178    67,178    67,178    67,178    67,178    67,178    67,178    67,178
Sundrieis                                                 2,000     3.000      5,008      5.000      0         .880     5.000      5,000   5,000  53.000           5,000      5.000     2,000      5.000      5,000
Total Operating Cfets                                     273,459   875,110 1,466,177 7,333,799 2,332,589 2,332,589 2,332,589 2,332,589 2,332,589 2,332,589 2,344,689 2,352,191 2,343,116 2,333,799 7,332,589
CAH3 FC8RECAT
MIbLOW
Gret a Incooe                                            (273,459)  483,962 1,631,359 1,082,601 1,803,811 1,083,811 1,083,811 1,083,811 1,083,811 1,083,811 1,071,711 1,004,209 1,073,274 1,082,601 1,083,811
Oovernmnot grant far land deelopme,t 6/                   454,740   500,292   275,184         -         -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -          _
Governaseat grant for b,ildinga, mehimlee & equip. 6t   104,745    43,092    31,682
Lang-tere iloa  for land develop_ent 7/                 1,364,220 1,500,876   825,552
Long-term  loam fan bailding, vehicle & eqeipmeat   8/  314,235   129,276    95,046           -         -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -
Shart-term  loan (working cepical)  9/                    340,000        -         -
Total Cabh Inflow                                       2,304,481 2,657,498 2,858,823 1,082,601 1,083,811 1,083,811 1,083,811 1,083,811 1,083,811 1,083,811 1,071,711 1,064,209 1,073,284 1,082,601 1,083,811
OUTFLOW
Load Developmeot IQ/                                    1,818,960 2,081,168 1,100,736         -
Buildings                                                 372,680   172,368   126,728
Offie f£uraitare & sqoip-nt                                10,080        -         -          - -          -          -                                              14,000
Vehicle  1i/                                               36,300        -         -          -          -      43,980        -         -          -          -      43,900
Inoeae Tea                                                    -          -     365,990   192,610   193,184   193,184   193,184   193,184   193,1S4.  193,184   188,344   264,557   418,6Z1   422,340   422,832
Debt ServicIng
Land d-velopmn,t 1f                                         -     253,282   521,914   575,640   575,640   575,640   575,640   575,640   575,640   575,640   575,640   376,085
Buildina & eqitpment  13/                                23,568    33,264    40,392    40,392    92,765   110,383   120,680   113,995   107,215   100,493    41,379    17,029
Short-term loam (orkinig capital)  4t                    28,900    28,900   38,00--                                                                         -
Tatal Cash Cotflow                                      2,290,408 2,488,982 2,524,660   808,842   861,589   923,107   889,504   882,819   876,039   869,307   863,263   657,671   418,621   422,348   422,832
Cash Basanes                                               14,073   168,516   334,163   273,959   222,222   160,704   194,307   200,992   207,772   214,504   208,448   406,538   654,663   6417,253   660,979
I/  Form tools with bane price at Tsh 100 per anit it  1975-76  bith 107 i-creasa p.a. apta 77-78, mao-toet th-rnaiter.  109 Suits io 75-76 amd 85-86;
162 anita im 76-77 and 86-87; 87 omits in 77-78 and 87-88 amd 10 units in 78-79 and 88-89.
2/  BRoe price per acre (73-74) - Tah 1,716; aith 107 p... incanrean opt  77-78, ptner per acee foma  78-79 enwands would be Tab 2,514.
3/  000e price per tee (73-74) - Tah 10, aith 10% p.a, i-crease auto 77-78, prior per toa in 76-77 would be Tsh 13, sod from 77-78 onwarda weald be
Tah 14-
4/  At Tah 10,000 ic 73-74, and increa-  e  rt 707% p.a. opta 77-78, ceonstat thbrsafter.
5/ At 10% eapital casts.
6/ 25% capital coats baree by Go-ernmeat .e grant.
7/  Loan advauca by KSC for laod dae-elp-nt tO be repaid with 92 ittereat p... ever 11 years to be dedoctod fr=-  cane price.
8/  Loan free TRDs at 741 inWeters  pa  raps.id cen  10 years aith 4 ya-re gr.er for capital repayer,,t
9/  Barrowed from TRODB at 847. inte-ent p.a. repaid acer 3 yearn; capttal repaid is third year.
10/  Base price (73-74) - Tah 2,409 per acre, mith 10X inerease p.d. upte 77-78, pric- per a-te is 75-76 would be Toh 2,919, in 76-77 TFh 3,207 and
ft 77-78 Tah 3,528.
11/  Co.t af coo -ehicle.  Base pric-of oe. enhirle TCh 30,000 Ic 73-74 and 100, ltreane p.c. upto 77-78,  -omota-i tharnafter,
02/  Dedacted by KSC free canr price en the basis =f 9X anouity aver 11 yearo at Tab 12.30 per ton for 468,000 tees of ougaro-ce.
13/  I..n  frat TRDB at 7iiX iintrect p.a.,repaid over 10 yaar- wrth 4 y-as grace Cor capital repay.met.
147 Rrroewnd ftme TRIO at 80% i,teer-t p.a.,repaid meet 3 ye-rs; capital repaid ia third year.
June 32, 7974



ANNEX 7
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Machinery Costs and Requirements
Tractors for Land Clearing, Preparation and Planting
1.        Land clearing and preparation can only be executed during the dry
season. As an average this season runs from 1st May up to 20th December,
comprising 234 calendar days. For calculation purposes and to allow for a
reduction of days for breakdowns, illness of drivers, down hours in the Tractor
Workshop, and interruptions due to rain showers, a month has been taken as
24 working days, the dry season thus comprising about 164 working days.
2.        The planting of irrigated cane should be carried out as soon as
possible. The planting of rainfed cane has to wait for the onset of the
rainy season; the land clearing and preparation for rainfed cane land should
be scheduled right before the onset of the rains, to be finished before 20th
December.
3.        The operational capacities in acres per working day for the various
tractor types are given in Table 1. Tractor requirements are summarized below:
Fiscal Years                       1974/75    1975/76       1976/77    1977/78
180 HP-crawlers (C180)                16          16           16         12
105 HP-crawlers (C105)                 2           2           2           2
75 HP-crawlers (C75)                  7           7           7           5
75 HP-wheel tractors (W75)            3           4            3          3
The tractors needed in the fiscal year 1974/75 (May-Dec.), should be purchased
for delivery as early as possible in the period, or hired, although even with
a delay in delivery to 1st October the clearing and planting program for the
dry season 1974 could still be achieved. As of June 1974, procurement pro-
cedures are well in hand and should permit this schedule to be achieved.
4.        Purchase costs of tractors and implements at December 1973 prices
are given in Table 2. Tractor hours per acre, cost of operation per acre,
and total costs of land clearing and preparation are shown in Table 3. The
average total cost per acre is calculated at Tsh 824.
Estate Cropping Operations: Tractors Requirement and Working Days
5.        The land clearing and preparation operations are directly followed
by planting, and crop maintenance of plant cane (starting 1974/75) and
ratoons (from 1975/76). The first replanting will be done in 1977/78. All
estate operations except cutting are mechanized. From planting on, however,



ANNEX 7
Page 2
the outgrowers take care of the maintenance of their crop, as they will do
also for all their ratoons. The operational hours are sunmmarized in Table 4
and the operational costs in Table 5.
6.        Estimates of tractor requirements for cropping operations have been
developed starting from areas to be cultivated, with speed of operations based
on K I experience, and climatic limits. Considerations taken into account
include:
(a) irrigated cane has to be planted early in the dry season and
rainfed cane at the onset of the rains in December. For
rainfed cane the operations following planting have to be
performed in dry spells during the wet months of January and
February. This necessitates quick performance calling for
extra capacity in tractors and implements;
(b) maintenance of nurseries and irrigated cane is carried out
during the first half of the dry season, and rainfed cane
in the second half of the dry season, so that maintenance
operations do not overlap. The biggest number of tractors
needed in a cropping year is therefore the number needed by
the biggest category of cane. In 1975/76 this would be the
irrigated cane and nurseries category;
(c) trashraking (on ratoons) chiselling and herbicide spraying can
be executed in the dry season, but fertilizing and ratoon
reshaping can only be done after the onset of the rains, the
latter only after the rains have resulted in new growth of
the cane;
(d) replanting needs 6 operations from uprooting the cane stools
of the harvested 5th cuttings and preparations of the land
to replant. The following 5 operations, planting through
uphilling, comprise the maintenance of the replanted crop.
Experience might result in reduction of some land preparation
operations such as deep ploughing, planning and TRCH-Harrowing,
but allowance has been made for these.
Tractors Needed for All Cropping Operations
7.        The total number of tractors needed for maintenance of replantings
is given in Table 6. At the end of this table is shown the kinds and quantities
of tractors needed per cropping year. Those for 1974/75 should be available
at K II at October 1, 1974 at latest.
Implements Needed for Subsequent Operations
8.        The implements needed subsequently are scheduled for the period
1974/75-1978/79 in Table 7.
June 12, 1974



ANNEX -7
Table i
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Tractor Ca acities
(Land Clearing and   eparation, Flanting, and Cropping)
1/                                      2/
Operation                   Tractorl/        Work Rate            Cane Type2
a. Clearing, Preparation
and Planting
Treedozing              C 180        1.00 acres per hour
Clearing and
Piling                 C 180        0.34 acres per hour
Ripping                 C 180        0.92 acres per hour
Levelling               C  75        0.42 acres per hour
TRCH Harrowing          C 180       1.00 acres per hour
Harrowing               C 105        2.00 acres per hour
Furrowing               C 105        2.00 acres per hour
Planting                W  75        1.00 acres per hour
b. Subsequent Operations
Trashraking             W  65        2.27 acres per hour      (R)
Chiselling              W  47        1.43 acres per hour      (F, RI P)
Fertilizing             W  65        1.43 acres per hour      (F  R, P)
Ratoon Reshaping        W  75-HC    1.89 acres per hour       (R)
Herbidice Spraying      W  65-HC    2.86 acres per hour       (F, R, P)
Uphilling               W  65-HC    1.54 acres per hour       (F P)
Stubble Ploughing       W  65        0.70 acres per hour      (P)
Deep Ploughing          W  92        0.55 acres per hour      (P)
Planing                 C 105        1.22 acres per hour      (P)
TRCH Harrowing          C 180        1.10 acres per hour      (P)
Harrowing               C 105        1.90 acres per hour      (P)
Furrowing               C 105        2.00 acres per hour      (P)
1/  C = Crawler, W = Wheeled, HC = High clearance.  Figures are HP. Equivalents
used on K I are:
C  75 - Caterpillar D4
C 105 - Caterpillar D5
C 180 - Caterpillar D7
W  47 - Massey Ferguson 135
W  65 - Massey Ferguson 165
W  75 - Massey Ferguson 185
W  92 - Massey Ferguson 1080
2/F= First Planting.
R = Ratoon
P = Replanting
June 12, 1974



ANNEX 7
Table 2
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Uiiit Coat of Tractors and IMplements
A.        Tractors.  For 1974 the purchase costs of the needed tractors,
based on December 1973 prices, will be:
16  C 180 crawlers x Tsh 378,000        =  Tsh  6,048,000
2  C 105 crawlers x Tsh 248,000                   496,ooo
7  C  75 crawlers x Tah 153,000        =        1,071,000
4  W  75 wheel tractors x Tsh 53,000              212,000
Total                    =       7,827,000
B. Tractor Imnplements
For treedozing, 3 treerakes @ Tsh 28,000           =          84,000
For clearing and piling, 8 clearing rakes
*  Tah 40,000=                                            320,000
For ripping, 3 rippers @ Tsh 8,000                            24,000
For levelling, 7 planers S Tsh 70,000                        490,000
For TRCH harrowing, 4 harrows S Tah 55,000         3         220,000
For shallow harrowing, 2 harrows
* Tah 100,000                                   *         200,000
For furrowing, 2 furrowers 0 Tah 7,500                        15,000
Additional
Stubble ploughs, 2 S Tsh 20,000                               40,000
Deep ploughs, 5 0 Tah 10,000                       =          50,000
Dozerblades:  for C 108, 8 blades @ Tsh 62,000   =           496,000
C 105, 2 blades S Tsh 35,000   -            70,000
C  75, 7 blades S Tah 31,000   -           217,000
Total                           A9226,000
For Planting
4 caneplanters S Tsh 17,500                                  M70000
Total Tractors and
Implements            *  Tah 10,123,000
June 12, 1974



ANNEX 7
Table 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILONEWR SUGAR PROJECT
Land Clearing, Preparation and Mechanical Cultivation Costa
Clearing and Preparation              1974/75     1975/76     1976/77      1977/78     Total
Acres milling cane and
nurseries                               2,160       3,880        2,420       1,240   9,700
Required Tractor Hours
Hours/
Operation           Tractor    Acre
Treedozing            C 180   1.00        2,160       3,880        2,420       1,240
Clearing and Piling   C 180   2.94        6,350      11,407        7,115       3,647
Ripping               C 180   1.09        2,354       4,229        2,638       1,352
Levelling             C  75   2.38        5,141       9,234        5,760       2,951
TRCH harrowing        C 180   1.00        2,160       3,880      - 2,420       1,240
Harrowing             C 105   0.50        1,080       1,940        1,210         620
Furrowing             C 105   0.50        1 080       1,940        1,210         620
Total                                  20,325      36,510       22 773     31,670
Cost in Tsh                  Tah/hr
Treedozing            C 180    121      261,360     469,480      292,820     150,040
Clearing and Piling   C 180    121      261,360     469,480      292,820     150,040
Ripping               C 180    121      261,360     469,480      292,820     150,040
Levelling             C  75     85      183,600     329,800     205,700      105,400
TRCH harrowing        C 180    162      349,920     628,560     392,0o0      200,880
Harrowing             C 105    101      218,160     391,880      244,420     125,240
Furrowing             C 105    113      244,080     438,440     273,460      140,120
Total                               1.779,840   3,197,120   1,994,080   1,021,760



ANNEX 7
T-able 3 
Phge 2
Mechanical Cultivation
Tractor
Operation                                         -pe                    Cost/hr
Stubble ploughing                                 W   65                    23
Deep ploughing                                    W  92                    107
Planing                                           C 105                    100
TRCH harrowing                                    C 180                    162
Harrowing                                         C 1e5                    101
Furrowing                                         C 105                    413
Planting                                          W  75                     24
Fertilizing                                       W  65                     18
Herbicide spraying                                w  65-Hc                  2
Chiselling                                        W 47                      11
Uphilling                                         W  65..HC                 28
Ratoon reshaping                                  W  75-HC                  32
Trashraking                                       W65
June 12, 1974k



ANNEX 7-
Table 4
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Estate Cropping Operations Tractor Hours
Fiscal Year                 1974/75 1975/76 1976/77 1977/78 1978/79  Total
Acres                        2,160   3,880   2,,420   1,240      -      9,7001/
First Planting
After Clearing    Hrs/Acre
Planting              1.00   2,160   3,880   2,420   1,240       -       -
Fertilizing           0.70   1,512   2,716   1,694       868     -       -
Herbicide
Spraying             0.35     756   1,358      847     434      -       -
Chiselling            0.70   1,512   2,716   1,694       868     -        -
Uphilling             0.65   1,404   2,522   1,573       806     -        -
Acres                           -     2,160   5,080   5,840   5,840   3,680
Estate Cuttings
II-V
Trashraking           0.44     -        950   2,235   2,5.70     -       -
Chiselling            0.70     -      1,512   3,556   4,088      -        -
Fertilizing           0.70     -      1,512   3,556   4,088      -        -
Ratoon Reshaping      0.53     -      1,145   2,692   3,095      -        -
Herbicide
Spraying            0.35     -        756   1,778   2,044      -        -
Acres                          -        _       -        700w' 23801/   -
Replanting
Estate and Outgrowers
Stubble ploughing   1.40      -       -        -        980   3,332     -
Deep ploughing       1.80     -       -        -     1,260   4,284      -
Planing              0.80     -        -       -        560   1,904     -
TRCH harrowing       0.92     -        -       -        644   2,190     -
Harrowing (2x)       0.53     -        -       -        371   1,261     -
Furrowing            0.50     -        -       -        350   1,190     -
Planting             1.00     -        -       -        700   2,380     -
Estate Only
Fertilizing          0.70     -       -        -        490   1,666     -
Herbicide
Spraying           0.35      -       -        -        245     833     -
Chiselling           0.70     -        -       -       490   1,666      -
Uphilling            0.65     -        -       -        455   1,547      -
1/ Including nurseries, excluding old outgrowers.
2/ Outgrowers ratoons will be maintained by themselves.
C/ Estate's CI and nurseries (460+240)acres.
17/ Including old and new outgrowers land to guarantee a good crop (920acres).






ANNEX 7
Table g
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Estate Cropping Operations Costs in Tsh
Fiscal Year                             1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79
First Planting Acres                      2,160     3,880      2,420     1,240        -
TBh
Cost
Operations             Tractor   Hour
Planting               W  75       24    51,840    93,120    58,080    29,760         -
Fertilizing            W  65      18    38,880    69,840    43,560    22,320          -
Herbicide Spraying    W  65-HC   24    51,840    93,120    58,080    29,760           -
Chiselling             W  47      11    23,760    42,680    26,620    13,640          -
Uphilling              W  65-HC   28    60,480   108 640    67,760    34,720          -
Total                                226 800               54,100   130 200        -
Tah/acre                                 1         1                               -
Estate Cuttings II-V
Acres                                     -         2,160     5,080      5,840     5,840
Trashraking            W  65      18       -       38,880    91,440   105,120         -
Chiselling             W  47      11       -       23,760    55,880    64,240         -
Fertilizing            W  65      18       -       38,880    91,440   105,120         -
Ratoon Reshaping       W  75-HC   32       -       69,120   162,560   186,880         -
Herbicide Spraying    W  65-HC   24        -       51 840   121 920   140 160         -
Total                                   -      222,48    523 240   601520-
Tsh/acre                              -            10310.
Rbplanting Acres
Estate and Outgrowers
Stubble ploughing    W  65       23       -          -         -       16,000       54,740
Deep ploughing        W  92     107       -          -         -        74,900     254,660
Planing               C 105     100       -          -         -        70,000     238,G00
TRCH harrowing        C 180     162       -          -         -      113,400      385,560
Harrowing             C 105     101       -          -         -        70,700     240,380
Furrowing             C 105     113       -         -          -        79,100     268,940
Planting              W. 75      24       -          -         _       16,800       57,120
Estate Only
Fertilizing           w  65      18       -         -                  12,600       42,820
Herbicide Spraying   W  65-HC   24        -          -         -       16,800       57,120
Chiselling            W  47      11       -         -          -         7,700      26,180
Uphilling             W  65-HC   28       -         -          -       19,600       66,640
Total                                   _         __                497 600 16916
Tsh/acre                              -           -          -           711         711
June 12, 1974.



ANME= 7
Table 6
TANZAI
KILOMBERO SU3AR PROJECT
Total Tractor Requirement for Caneland
Fiscal Year            1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79
Land Clearing and
Prepation Tractors
C 180              16         16        16         12
C 105                2         2          2         2
C  75                7         7          7         5
First Planting
W  75                3         4          3         3
Maintenance first planted estate cane, estate ratoons, land preparation and
replanting of estate and outgrowera' land, and maintenance of estate
replanted land.
c 180               -         -          -          1          3
G 105               _         _          _          3          7
C  75               _         _          _         _
*  92               -         -          -          2          5
W  75                3         4          3         3          4
*  75-HC            -          3          5         5          5
w  65                2         8         12        16         18
W  65-Hc             3         5          8        10         11
*  47                2         5          8        10        10
Plant. mach.         3         4          3         3          4
Combined total of tractors for the caneland.
C 180              16         16        16         13         3 onward
C 105                2         2          2         5          7
C 75*                7         7          7         5          -
W  92                -         -          -         2          5"
W  75                6         8          6         6          4 n
W  75-HC             -         3          5         5          5
W  65                2         8          6         6          4
W  65-HO             3         5          8        10         11
W  47                3         5          8        10         10
Plant. mach.         3         4         3          3          4   "
* one to be added for road construction and maintenance.
June ip, 1974



ANNEX 7
Table 7
TANZANIA
KILOM3ERO SUGAR PROJECT
A. I^plements Needed for Crop Maintenance and Replanting Preparations
Fiscal Year            1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79
Fertilizer hoppers        2         6          8         8          6
Herbicide sprayers        1         3          6          6         5
Chiselling units          2         5          8         8          WI
Uphillers                 2         2          2         4          4_i/
Traahrakes                -         2          4         4          4
Ratoon reshapers          -         3          5         5          5
Stubble ploughs           -         -          -         2          4
Deep plougha              -          -         -          2         5
Levellers                 7          7         7         6          2
TRCH harrows              2         2          2         3          3
Harrows                   1         1          1          2         3
Furrowers                 1         1          1         2          2
B. For Land Clearing and Preparation Operations, Included in A Above
Levellers                 7          7         7         5
TRCH harrows              2         2          2         2
Harrows                   1         1          1         1
Furrowers                 1         1          1         1          -
C.  Dozerblades for Crawlers
C 180                     8         8          8         6          3
C 105                     2         2          2         2          -
C  75                     4         4          4         2          2
D. For Land Clearing and Preparation Operations (additional to B)
Treerakes                 3         3          3         2
Piling rakes              8         8          8         6
Rippers                   3         3          3          2
1/ Cultivator sets.
/ Moulding sets.
June 12, 1974



ANIZX 7
Tab e
TANZAUA
KILa4Nno SUGAl PROJECT
Total Equipment, Quantities and Costs for Clearinra   enation. Crop Maintenance, and Nervesting
____________________________Fiscal Year
__i214974                   9                      1aYe                   1977/71            197M/7 9
Unit Price
Tsb 1,000       No.        Tota-l          -No.     Cost            No.     Cost            No.    CoSt            No.   Cost            No. Cost
Crawler Tra-tors
c( !o                              350             16       5,600            16      5,600                                                                    -           -
C 105                              225              7        1,575            2        45-                     -                                      3      675          2    450
C 75                               140              8        1,120            8      1,120             -       _              -       -                                   -      -
Wheel Tractors
W 92                                98              5          4190                    - _             _         _            .                       2       196         3    294
W 75                                53              8          424           6         318            2        106            -       -              -       -            -      -
W 75-HC                             56              5         280            -         -              3        168            2       112            -        -           -      -
W t,.llC                            45             11          495           3         135            2         90            3       135             2        90         1      45
W 47                                33             12          396           5         165            2         66            3        99             2       66          -      -
Total                                                   10,380                    7,788                       0346                                       1,027               789
Tractor IrpleoeOts
Tr-erakes                           28              3           84            3         84
Cl.ariog rakes                      40              8          320            8        320
Rippero                              8              3           24            3         24
Levellers                           70              7          490            7        490
TRCH-Harro-s                        55              4         220             4        220            _       -               -       _              -       -            -
tarrows                            100              2         200             2       200
Furro-er-                            7.5            2           15            2         15
Stubble pl-ughs                     20              3          60             2        410            _       _              _        _              _                    1     20
Deep ploog9h                        10              5          50            _          -             _       _              _                        2       20          3      30
C.00  planters                      17.5            4           70            4         70
F-rtilier hoppers                   10              8           80            2         20             4        40            2        20
lerbicide sprayers                  15              6           90            1         15              3       45             2       30
Cultivator-                          4              8           32            2          8             3        12             3       12
Moulding .eto                       10              4           40            2         20                    -               -       -               2       20
Trshralkes                           5              4          20            -         _               2        10            2        10
Ratoon reshapers                    10              5          50            -                         3        30            2        20-
TotaI                                                    1,845                   1,526                      137                     92                     40               -2
Docerblades For:
C 158                               62              8         496             8       496             _       _              _        _              _       _            _     _
C 105                               35              2           70            2         70            -       _               _       _              _       _            _     _
C 75                                31              7         217             7        217            -       -                       - _            _          _         _
Total                                                      783                     783
Roado and Bridges
Gradero                            175              2          350            2        350
Roadrollers                         50              1          50             1         50            _       _               _       _              _       _            _     _
Rotary cutters                       6.5            2           13            2         13
Molasoeo Ta-k                        7.5            1            7.5          1          7.5
Total                                                      420.5                    420.5
Various Transports-                                                                                                                                                              -
Icocloader                          50              1          50             1         50                                            _                      _ -
Joa'oderan                         151                         125            1        125             -       --                     --                     -- 
Jumbo -ran.                        125                          10                                     1        10
Ceospool emptier                    10              1           10           -                         1        10            _       _              _       _
Firing trailer                      75              1           75                -                     1                     -D
Total                                                      260                      175                      85
Vehicles and MIotrorycles
Pickup cars                         38              11        418             8        304              3      114                    -
Small buse                          55               1          55            1         55
Saloon cars                         40               1         70             1         35             1        35            _       _              _       _            _      _
4-Wheel dries cars LB               35               2          70            1         3              1        35
4-Wheel drive cars SB               30                         6 120          3         90             1        30
Anbolance                           603 5                       62 42         6         21             6        21
Motorcycles                          3.5            12          .      6                21 665-                                       -                                       
mtorriclo                           65               1          65            1         65             -       --                                             --                 -
Tip~pers                            73               9     ....572            9         5                    ...-                              
Total                                                    1.527                   1,327                      200
igo tractor                         85              25       2,125            -         -              18    1,530              7       595
WBo tractor
W65 tractor                         52             146      7,592             4        208             90    4,680             42     2,164          8       416           2     .14
Lighting units                      20               4          80                                     4        80             - _-                         -              -
Sideload units-                     24             190      4,56o             _         _            125    3,000              50     1,200         15      360            -      -
Pullers                             10               8          80            -         -              6        60              2        20
Frae for pullers                     3               8          24            -         _              6        18              2         6
Winches                             22.5             6         135            -         -              4        90              2        45
Trailers                             7.5            12          90             -                        7       52.5            5        37 5
Total                                                  14,686                      208                   9,510.5                  4,087.5               776                  104
Grand Total (x.clud.s Spares)                          29,901.5                12.025                   10.362.5                        5. 83                               943
June 22, 1974



ANNEX 8
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Training Requirements
1.        Because of the shortage of suitably trained manpower in Tanzania
particularly at technical and higher levels, the Kilombero Sugar Company has
experienced difficulties in recruiting adequate staff. The supply of trained
personnel will continue to be limited for the foreseeable future and KSC has,
therefore, developed a system to upgrade its staff at all levels. This con-
sists of in-company training schemes coupled with the provision of fellowships
for selected staff at institutions inside and outside Tanzania. These programs
need to be expanded and strengthened to meet the training needs of K II as
well as to contribute to further demands for skilled manpower resulting from
the anticipated expansion of the Tanzanian sugar industry.
2.        A study of the training requirements for the Tanzania sugar industry
as a whole was prepared by a team of consultants provided under Dutch assistance
in 1972. The report proposed the establishment of a Central Training Center
(CTC), located near one of the larger existing estates, to be used for training
and upgrading middle and lower level supervisory personnel, and for a number
of Local Training Centers (LTC) to be established near the estates for train-
ing and upgrading of lower level workers. Government has concluded, and the
mission agrees, that while the establishment of such a national sugar training
scheme could assist the sugar industry in alleviating its manpower constraints,
the present system of in-plant training coupled with sponsorship of employees
on selected courses in Tanzania and overseas, forms the most suitable training
system for the Project and for the needs of the sugar industry in general.
Supervised specific on-the-job training coupled with day release classes and
the provision of training materials can be made more relevant to middle and
lower level jobs on the sugar estate than more formal full-time courses away
from the place of work. In addition, more personnel can be released for
training at any time. This is of special importance in the case of K II where
the operatives, particularly for the new factory, will have to be trained
within a short time period. Senior level staff and potential senior staff
will, in addition to learning skills from their expatriate counterparts and
supervisors, be offered fellowships both in Tanzania and abroad.
3.        The present Kilombero Sugar Company training system will have to be
made more comprehensive and vigorous to meet the needs of the Project. When
the new factory becomes operational, experienced personnel will be divided
between K I and K II.  New staff will be recruited for on-the-job training
well in advance of when they will be required to start performing their duties
and trained in K I. A training coordinator/instructor, expected to be an
expatriate with experience in training for the sugar industry, will be re-
cruited under the Project. He will review and upgrade the present training



ANNEX 8
Page 2
courses, curricula and procedures and supervise the senior and supervisory
staff who are responsible for such instruction. More supervisory personnel
than are strictly needed for management purposes will be recruited in order
that they can devote time to training. It is also proposed that compulsory
classes during work hours will be introduced (at present, instruction is given
after work with the result that many potential participants do not attend and
those that do are tired and find it difficult to concentrate) and provision
is made for duplicate staffing to allow such release. Provision for training
equipment and materials to be located in existing and new workshops and
facilities is also provided under the Project, and support for the fellowship
program will be made available, and an element has been included in the turn-
key package for senior management training.
Field Department Personnel
4.        Little difficulty is expected in recruiting suitably trained agri-
cultural personnel at the Junior management and supervisory levels. Graduates
are available from University's Faculty of Agriculture in Morogoro for assist-
ant field managers and section managers. Adequate numbers of "certificate"
holders, who have undergone two years post secondary school training in agri-
culture, are expected to be available for the foremen posts. Personnel will
be recruited about one year in advance of when they are actually needed and
be given on-the-job training by existing staff. KSC will continue to sponsor
selected employees for full-time training at Morogoro Agricultural College.
Some employees will be sponsored for certain specialized overseas courses
which are not available in Tanzania, e.g., in Agricultural Management at
'lanaga in Swaziland. At the lower levels, headman and semi-skilled workers
will be given on-the-job training by the supervisory staff; in the past such
training has proved to be adequate.
Transportation Department and Tractor Workshops
5.        Reflecting the overall country situation, shortages of skilled
mechanics and engineers for the tractor and factory workshops are particularly
severe. Instruction is presently given by foremen after work hours, some of
whom have been sent to specialized overseas vocational training courses. The
National Industrial Training Center, which is assisted by UNDP/ILO and located
in Dar-es-Salaam, has established a series of trade tests and examiners visit
the estates once per year to conduct examinations; however, results so far
have not been encouraging. In order to meet the manpower requirements for
K II it will be necessary to upgrade and strengthen the present workshop train-
ing schemes. The proposed training officer would have to give particular
attention to this area. Training manuals need to be developed and compulsory



ANNEX 8
Page 3
instruction should be introduced. Provision would also be made for fellowships
for technical training in Tanzania and abroad for supervising personnel. No
difficulties in recruiting sufficient drivers are expected; special training
sessions are held for a few days prior to the commencement of the session.
Training of Factory Personnel
6.        The new K II factory is in the fortunate position of being developed
under the common management of the existing K I factory. Kilombero Sugar
Company management will be able both to use the existing factory to train new
personnel and also to allocate manpower among the two factories to utilize
experienced personnel in key positions for startup and operation of the new
K II factory. The training program will include double manning of about 50-
factory positions with new personnel and upgrading of existing factory person-
nel. A list of positions it would be appropriate to double-man and the train-
ing period for K II is shown in Table 1. Over-manning would continue thereafter
as needed for new sugar developments.
Technical Department
7.        In common with the tractor workshop, this department has experienced
great difficulties in recruiting and upgrading suitable Tanzanian supervisory
staff and skilled and semi-skilled tradesman. On-the-job training schemes
have been developed in cooperation with the National Industrial Training Center
but these need strengthening. Skilled workers who will be employed in assembl-
ing the new factory are expected to be available for employment as operational
personnel. The company's sponsorship scheme for students studying for certi-
ficate and diploma courses at the Dar-es-Salaam Technical College will be
expanded under the Project.
Processing Department
8.        The processing department has developed a systematic in-house training
program with most formal instruction being conducted in the non-milling season.
One supervisor devotes most of his time for training. Examinations, which are
used as the basis of promotion, are held annually. Provision for overseas
training in sugar processing has been included in the Project.
Other Departments
9.        It is expected that one employee from the Civil Engineering Depart-
ment will be sponsored at Dar-es-Salaam Technical College. Employees in
Administration will be sponsored for accounting degrees, secretarial and
correspondence courses.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
10.       As a result of the improved training schemes which will be instituted
under the Project, the field, administration and processing departments of
KSC are expected to become almost completely localized within the Project
period: seven or eight of the initial ten senior expatriate posts would
probably be filled by Tanzanians. However, although the Dar-es-Salaam Techni-
cal College and the newly instituted engineering course at the University are
expected to produce an increasing number of engineers, severe country-wide
shortage of such personnel will continue for some considerable time. The
senior engineering staff of KSC will not, therefore, be fully Tanzanian until
well after the Project period.
11.       Cost estimates for the training program are shown in Annex 13,
Table 5.
June 12, 1974



AiMNEX 8
Table 1
P.,ge 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Training-Factory Staff
Training in Period
May 1975 to       Apr. 1976 to
Apr. 1976         M4ay 1977
Trainees     No.    Date        No.     Date
TiCHNICAL D3PARTMENT
Administration
Clerk                             2        1 -May 75          1 - Aug. 76
Draftsman                         1                           1 - Aug. 76
Asst. PurchasIng Officer          1                           1 - Apr. 76
FACTORY
Cane House
Crane Operators                  12                          12 - Aug. 76
Cane Table Operators              3                           3 - Aug. 76
Headman                           3                           3 - July 76
YMlling/Diffusion Plant
Mill Attendants                   9                           9 - July 76
Diffuser Operators                3                           3 - July 76
Steam Generation Plant
Feedwater Station
Attendants                        6                           6 - July 76
Bagasse System
Carrier Attendants                3                           3 - Aug. 76
Boilers
Laborers                          9                           9 - July 76
Operators                         6        3 - May 75         3 - Jun. 76
Power Generation Plant
Power House
Engine Attendant                  3        3 - May 75
Switchboard Opera-tor             3                           3 - Jun. 76
Foreman                           3        3 - May 75
Pump Station
Engine Attendant                  3        3 - May 75



ANN1X 8
Table 1
Page 2
Training in Period
May 1975 to        Apr. 1976 to
Apr. 1976          Ma  197
_ _.   .             Date        No.    - f- te
FACTORY (Cont.)
Shift Repair & Maintenance
Mechanics                          9                             9 - July 76
Plant Repair & MainteWnace-
Fitters                           18                           18 - Jul. 76
4elders                            4                            4 - Jul. 76
Foreman                            1                            1 - May 76
4ORKSHOPS
Stores
Laborers                           3                             3 - Aug. 76
Attendants                         1                             1 - Jul. 76
Mechanical Worksho?
Machine Operatprs                 1Q         5 - May 75         5 - Aug. 76
Machine Fore=an                    1         1 - May 75
Fitters                                                        10 - Aug. 76
Fitter Foreman                     1                            1- Aug. 76
'delders                                     2 - My 75.         2 - Aug. 76
.*elder Foreman                   -1         1 - y 75
Steel Sawer                                                     1 - Aug. 76
Foundry Molder                     2         1 - May 75         1 - Aug. 76
Blacksmith                         2         1 - May 75         1 - Aug. 76
Electrical WorkshoQp
-Laborers                           2                            2 - Aug. 76
Electricians                       8         3 - May 75         5 - Jul. 76
Foreman                            2         1- May 75          1 - Jul. 76
Instrument Workibop
Mechanics                                    2 -May 75          3 - Jul. 76
PAOCESSING DMPARLMwT
Administration
Chief Clerk                        1                            1 - Jul. 76



isNEX 8
"able 1
Page 3
Training in Period
May 1975 to        4p.. 1976 to
Apr. 1976          hay 1977
Trainees     No.    Date         No.     Date
PROCESSING DEPARTM-NT (Cont.)
Cane deighbridge
Attendant                          4                            4 - Aug. 76
Clerk                              2                            2 - Jul. 76
Laboratory
Analysts                           6                            6 - Jul. 76
Head Analysts                      3        3 - May 75
Juice Processing Plant
Clarification Station
Operator                           3                            1 - Jul. 76
Evaporator Station
Operator                           3                            1 - Jul. 76
Processing Foreman                 3        3 - May 75
Sugar Processing Plant
Sugar Boiling Station
Sugar Boilers                      9        9 - May 75
Head Sugar Boiler                  3        3 - May 75
Centrifugal Station
Headman                            3        3 - May 75
Sugar Bagging and Storage
Jute Bag Supply
Filter Cloth & Bag Sewer           1                            1 - Aug. 76
Sugar Godown
Laborers                          15                           15 - Aug. 76
Headman                            1                            1 - Jul. 76
Supervisor                         1                            1 - Jul. 76
June 12, 1974






ANNEX 9
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Development of Sugar in Tanzania
A. Background
1.        Tanzania currently obtains its domestic sugar production from four
estates: Tanganyika Planting Company, Mtibwa, Kagera and Kilombero. Recent
production has been about 90,000 m tons per year and 45,000 m tons was
imported in 1972 to meet domestic demand. Expansion programs have been
prepared and undertaken by the various factories and it is estimated that the
results of the current programs will be largely realized by 1978 when domestic
production is projected to show surplus of from 5,000 to over 35,000 m tons
depending on the rate of growth of consumption. However, it is likely that
the surplus production will be short-lived as deficits are likely early in
the 1980's.
2.        To avoid continued piecemeal growth of the domestic sugar industry,
the Kilombero Sugar Project includes provision for a team of consultants for
the identification of further developments in the industry. They will conduct
a country-wide survey to identify potential sugar areas and prepare detail
feasibility studies and programs to permit Tanzania to be self-sufficient in
sugar through 1990 and a general program through 2000.
B. Objective
3.        The objective of the survey will be to prepare a detailed program
which will enable Tanzania to meet its internal demand for sugar from 1979
through 1990 and a general program to 2000 at the least cost to its economy.
To this end, the survey will provide:
(a)  an assessment of Tanzania's current and future sugar require-
ments, through the year 2000;
(b) a detailed program for further expansion and development of
existing sugar estates, factories and related facilities if
technically and economically justified;
(c) a detailed program for the development, if technically and
economically justified, of sugar production in new areas
including the design of pilot trials of cane cultivation; and
(d) a general program of development for the following 10-years
through the year 2000.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
C. Scope of Services
General
4.        The consultants shall perform all agricultural, engineering and
other technical studies, economic and financial analysis, and field investi-
gation work as required to attain the objectives. The consultants shall be
responsible for the analysis and interpretation of all data collected or
received and for the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained in
their reports.
Current and Future Sugar Demand
5.        The consultants shall examine the markets for sugar, the types and
quality required and methods of production and distribution. On the basis of
such data and on projections of future population growth and levels of con-
sumption, the consultants shall estimate the country's sugar requirements
through 1990 and indicate the likely demand through the year 2000.
6.        The consultants shall also examine the production and marketing of
by-products and end-products. They shall make recommendations as to the
disposal of unmarketable products taking into account environmental consider-
ations.
Cane Production - Existing Areas
7.        The consultants shall review existing agricultural practices and
cane production. They shall make recommendations for:
(a) improvements in method of cultivation and agronomic practices
to increase current yields;
(b) modification and improvements of outgrower production;
(c) irrigation need and usage and improvements to existing systems;
(d)  modifications and improvements in present cane harvesting and
transportation systems to increase efficiencies; and
(e) inputs and actions required to implement the recommendations
for expansion and for increasing current production.
Sugar Production - Existing Areas
8.        The consultants shall examine the present factory equipment and
production systems and assess the potential for factory expansion based on
the evaluation of agricultural estimates. They shall also assess the proces-
sing methods based on the type and quality of sugar demand. The consultants
shall make recommendation on:



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(a) the expansion potential of existing factories with estimates of
equipment costs, timing and economic return;
(b) the processing method for producing the recommended type and
quality of sugar; and
(c) the economic handling of by-products and end-products.
Cane and Sugar Production in New Areas
9.        The consultants shall examine al'l available data to identify
possible sites for sugar development in new areas and make a field survey
of the sites. They shall evaluate the suitability of each site for sugar
production and assign a priority rating to them. On sites where favorable
characteristics appear to be present, the consultants shall take steps to
identify the area and the extent of suitable land available for cane culti-
vation, the appropriate factory capacity and potential sugar production. If
economic production appears feasible, the consultants will design pilot treats
for cane cultivation which would cover a period of three to four years and
detail the personnel, facilities and finances required. The consultants shall
also prepare physical and financial projections for a full-scale project
with detailed estimates of production, investment and economic returns for
the sites which they recommend to meet sugar demand through 1990. They shall
prepare general estimates for a program to meet sugar demand through the
year 2000.
Development Program
10.       Based on the forecasts for sugar demand and the analyses and evalu-
ation of the existing sugar estates and new cane areas, the consultants shall
prepare a phased program for the development of Tanzania's sugar industry. The
consultants shall prepare a specific and detailed investment program through
1990 and for the next 10 years in more general form.
Project Preparation
11.       Within the context of Tanzania's objective to maintain self-sufficiency
in sugar, the consultants will prepare a first phase project targeted to
achieve results in 1979/80 when production from current expansion programs are
expected to fall short of demand. The scope of the first phase project should
be sufficient with a reasonable, phased expansion program to maintain self-
sufficiency at least through 1985. The project should be prepared in a form
suitable for submission for financing by a bilaterial donor or an international
lending agency.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
D. Costs
12.       Projected survey costs are shown in Annex 13, Table 1.  Provision
is made for:
(a) four consultants, an agriculturalist, a processing specialist,
an agricultural economist, and a financial analyst;
24 man-months field work
16 man-months analysis and report preparation.
(salaries and field living expenses)
(b) local support personnel;
(c) report preparation and printing; and
(d) international and local travel.
June 12, 1974



ANNEX 10
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Turnkey Factory
1.        A 26-month development period, incl.ding Cold Testing and Trials,
is set in the contract for the factory.  IncLuded in the turnkey contract are:
(1) a complete 2,400 TCD sugar factory for producing semi-refined
white sugar including steam and power generation plants;
(2) a factory workshop equipped with tools and equipment;
(3) a tractor workshop equipped with tools and equipment;
(4) a 11,000 m ton capacity sugar warehouse;
(5) a general stores warehouse equipped with racks and shelves;
(6) a fertilizer warehouse;
(7) a main office building for the administrative and agricultural
department staffs;
(8) a cane weighbridge and cane storage facilities;
(9) storage tanks and other miscellaneous items in the factory
compound;
(10) a river pump station, sedimentation basin, irrigation pump
station and canals for factory and irrigation water supplies;
(11) a telephone system with 50 telephones;
(12) spare parts for the factory machinery and equipment.
2.        After completion of construction, the turnkey contractor will super-
vise startup and operation of the plant for a 12-week commissioning period
during which he will train operators and run performance tests. A commissioning
crew of 10 specialists will be provided for commissioning, and a crew of
approximately 17 men per shift, consisting of mechanics, electricians, fitters,
welders and instrument men will be retained from the erection staff to assist
the commissioning crew.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
3.        Performance guarantees for the K II factory are:
(1) 2,400 m tons of cane per 24 hours when supplied with cane with
a fiber content not exceeding 15%;
(2)  when operating at the capacity specified above, reduced extrac-
tion of not less than 96.5%;
(3)  when crushing cane with not less than 15% fiber and under
normal processing conditions no extra fuel will be required
for the boilers provided that the factory is in continuous
operation at 2,400 m tons of cane per 24 hours;
(4) the quality of semi-refined white sugar shall be of the following
standards or better:
(a)  reducing sugars, maximum             0.03%
(b)  ash by conductivity, maximum         0.03%
(c)  moisture content, maximum            0.05%
(d) attenuation indices:
at 420 mu, maximum                   110
at 720 mu, maximum                    35
4.        The total cost of the contract is the equivalent of US$31.5 million
(Tsh 224.9 million), payable in Dutch, Danish and Tanzania currency as shown
in Table 1. Prices, except for Marine Transport, Marine and Local Insurance
and Transportation in Tanzania (items totalling US$0.9 million) are firm for
the duration of the contract. Provision for contingencies included in the
price was a negotiated item.
June 12, 1974



ANNEX10
Tablel
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Turnkey Contract - Payment Schedule
Month                    Dutch Florins    Danish Kroners   Tanz. Shillins
Apr./May 1974 1            8,000,000         33,980,000         2,996,825
2             250,000                               -
3             250,000
Aug. 1974     4            1,627,000          1,500,000 1o,000,,000
5             250,000          1,500,000         1,000,000
6             250,000          1,500,000         1,000,000
7             246,630          1,500,000         1,000,000
8           1,050,000          5,000,000         1,000,000
Jan. 1975     9            1,050,000          5,000,000        1,300,000
10           1.,250,000         5,000,000         1,300,000
11           2.,050,,000        5,000,000         1,300,000
12           2,504,000          5,000,000         1,300,000
13           2,550,000          6,000,000         2,000,000
14           1,180,690          6,000,000         2,000,000
15             519,000          5,000,000         1,500,000
16             460,000          5,000,000         1,500,000
17             h60,000          5,000,000         1,500,000
18             460,000          5,000,000         1,500,000
19             460,000          5,000,000         1,300,000
20             460,000            614,730         1,300,000
Jan. 1976    21              460,000                              780,000
22             460,000             -                780,000
23             460,000                              780,000
24             460,000             -                780,000
25             460,000            125,000           700,000
26             260,000           -125,000           351,4Q5
27             260,000            125,000
28             260,000             -
29          _    7,930             -                  -
28,415,250       102,969,730        29,968,250
Total = US$31.5 million equivalent
or Tsh 224.9 million equivalent
June 12, 1974






ANNEX 11
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Scale, Processs and Location of Plant
A. Scale of Plant
1.        The proposal submitted by Government called for a 2,400 TCD factory
with an output of 45,000 m tons of sugar during a 200-day milling season.
During appraisal the mission questioned whether a larger (or smaller) scale
plant would be more economic, but after evaluation was convinced that the
scale proposed was correct. Increased cane production arising from higher
than anticipated cane yields could be handled by improvements in the con-
servative 90% factory efefficiencies assumed and by extension of the milling
season beyond 200 days. At 95% efficiency and a 10% longer milling season
the factory out-turn would be 52,000 m tons sugar a year, 15% above rating.
2.        Given achievable yields in the area, the size of K II is controlled
by land available within economic distance of the factory, and the length of
the milling season. Although a milling season in excess of 200 days, up to
225 days is possible in many years' (the season for K I has exceeded 200
days in 9 out of 12 years of operations) calculation on a 200-day basis
reduces the risk of lowered productivity encountered when field conditions
are affected by rain at the end of an extended period. On the other hand,
although a gross area of 20,200 acres of arable land is encompassed by the
areas of the Ruembe valley designated as suitable for sugar growing in the
Project area, with allowance for rivers, major road areas, patches of poor
soil, and areas needed for outgrowers food crops, only some two-thirds of
this can be assumed available for planting. Other land is available in
the Msolwa valley, South of K I, but at a distance which would make the
transport of large quantities of cane uneconomic.
3.        The proposed plant could physically be expanded to a 3,000 TCD
capacity to produce 60,000 m tons sugar a year, but it is probable that the
better approach to a further increase of capacity in the Kilombero valley,
should this later be thought desirable, would be to establish a third factory
and estate in the Southern area. Soil surveys have not yet covered this
potential. However, a larger-scale development in a completely new area is
expected to be a more economic solution.
B. Description and Evaluation of the Factory Process
The Factory Process
4.        Estate cane would be transported to the factory by wheeled tractors
pulling three single-axle carts each loaded with about 3.5 tons of chain-
bundled cane. Outgrower cane would be similarly transported or by trucks or



ANNEX 11
Page 2
trailers averaging about 5 tons per unit. Cane transport would be accomplished
during two 8 hour shifts during the day and evening. All the cane would be
weighed on a weighbridge at the entrance to the factory cane yard. Chain
slings will be used to unload the cane from the transport units. The night
cane supply would be stored in two cane storage bays. The cane bays would be
equipped with overhead travelling cranes which unload the chained bundles of
cane from the transport units to either storage or the cane tables. Cane
would be conveyed from the cane tables to the main cane carrier which would
be equipped with a leveller and two turbine driven cane knives for cane pre-
paration prior to juice extraction.
5.        Juice extraction would be by pre-pressing mill, diffuser and two
bagasse dewatering mills. The extracted juice would be weighed over automatic
juice scales and then heated to boiling by pumping through juice heaters.
The heated juice would be limed and settled in a clarifier from which the
clear juice overflow would pass through a multiple effect evaporator set
for concentration into a thick syrup. The muddy underflow from the clarifier
would be handled by rotary vacuum filters and the filter cake output would
be hauled to the fields.
6.        Raw sugar would be boiled from the syrup using a three boiling
system of decreasing quality. Continuous centrifugals would be used to
separate the raw sugar crystals from molasses in the first two boiling.
Sugar from the third and final boilings would be separated from the final
molasses by semi-automatic batch centrifugals and would be used as seed
crystals for the first two boilings. The final molasses product would be
stored for shipment and sale to the Tanzania Tank Storage Co. Ltd., who in
turn will sell the industry's molasses to United Molasses Co.
7.        Final product semi-refined sugar would be produced from treated raw
sugar melt. Sugar produced from the first two boilings of the raw sugar
processing system would be melted and treated with milk of lime and sulphur
dioxide gas and filtered through filter presses. The clear melt would be
boiled into final product sugar using a three boiling system. The filter
cake would be hauled to the fields. The semi-refined white sugar would be
recovered by automatic batch centrifugals. Runoff from the centrifugals
would be boiled back into lower quality boilings. Generally, the sugar from
the first and last refinery boilings would be mixed to produce a standard
semi-refined product equivalent to sugar from the second boilings. The
product sugar would be dried, cooled and screened before transport to a sugar
bin. From the sugar bin, the sugar would be weighed and bagged by automatic
machines into 50 kg paper bags and 100 kg jute bags. The final semi-refined
white sugar product would be transported to storage prior to shipment and
sale to the distributor.
8.        Final bagasse from the juice extraction plant would be used as fuel
for the boilers. During normal operations, the factory would be self-sufficient
and generate all of its power requirements from bagasse. Excess bagasse would
be stored and reclaimed from storage for use during factory stops.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Evaluation of the Proposed Process
9.        About 80% of the current Tanzanian sugar production is semi-refined
white sugar, and all imports are refined sugar. For competitive marketing
reasons, the new factory would produce a semi-refined quality white sugar
product. The semi-refined quality can be classified between plantation or
mill white sugars produced by one of several processes, and refined sugar.
The melt-sulphitation process proposed for tche new factory is a technically
simple process with reasonable operating costs. The double sulphitation-
process could be considered as an alternative process if a lower quality
sugar is acceptable but it is technically more difficult requiring close
process controls. Refined sugar processes were not considered because in
all cases capital and operating costs would be higher than the melt-sulphi-
tation process. For local marketing conditions and because it is a relatively
simple technical process, the melt sulphitation process is suitable for
installation in Tanzania.
10.       Two alternative juice extraction systems were considered by KSC.
The first system is straight milling with a mill train consisting of five
3-roller mills. The second system is milling with diffusion consisting of
a pre-press, mill De danske Sukkerfabrikker (DDS) type continuous cane
diffuser and two dewatering mills. The selection of the juice extraction
system was based on the financial evaluation of the alternative proposals
submitted by tenderers and was finalized in the factory turnkey agreement.
Typically the two systems have similar cost/efficiencies.
11.       Milling has been used for many years while continuous sugar cane
diffusers are a more recent development. Cane diffusion systems have,
however, been successfully adopted by many sugar factories throughout the
world. The existing Kilombero factory installed a DDS type diffuser in 1972
and after some start-up problems, were successfully operating the plant in
1973. Higher sugar extractions expected with the diffusion system would
also result in higher non-sugar extraction and therefore greater final
molasses production. The boiling house would be equipped to handle the
higher non-sugar loads to minimize sugar losses in molasses and to maintain
satisfactory boiling house recoveries.
C. Factory Site Location
Alternative Factory Sites
12.       Three locations were evaluated as potential sites for the proposed
factory:
(1) location alongside the existing Kilombero sugar factory;
(2) location on the North bank of the Great Ruaha River;
(3) location in the center of the new Ruembe cane growing area.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 4
At the time of appraisal, the data available for an economic evaluation
indicated that the site in the center of the cane growing area (3), and not
the river-bank site (2) assumed in the project submission was most suitable.
A detailed survey carried out by consulting engineers after the appraisal
showed that soil bearing conditions for the construction of the factory,
and for construction of water canals and rail access would considerably
increase development costs and on the basis of these figures and in view
of potential delays if the site be disputed further the mission endorses
the river-bank site. Government has instructed the turnkey contractor to
base operations on this location.
Criteria for Factory Site Selection
13.       From the technical viewpoint, any of the sites could have been
selected as the new factory site. Qualitative management and social factors
probably favor sites closer to the existing factory and estate but these are
not significant since all of the sites are in the same general locality and
the distance between the two extreme sites under consideration is only 7 km.
Each site provides the opportunity for joint management of both the new and
existing estates by the senior management staff of KSC.
14.       Among the specific factors evaluated for each site were:
(1) cane transport costs;
(2) water development costs;
(3) land use; and
(4) access to existing facilities.
15.       In sugar cane operations, transport costs are usually critical
because of the quantity of raw material required to produce the final product.
For the new factory about 430,000 m tons of cane would be transported to the
factory by carts each loaded with 3.5 tons of cane or by trucks and trailers
each loaded with 5 tons of cane to produce 45,000 m tons of sugar. Cane
transport costs depends on the factory location and the magnitude of the
additional transport costs become significant as the factory site is moved
away from the center of gravity of the factory's cane growing area.
16.       For the three sites, the factory and irrigation water supplies
would be developed from the Great Ruaha River. The facilities would include
a river pumping station, settlement basin, factory water supply, irrigation
water supply, irrigation water pump house and power lines from the factory
site to the pumping stations. Capital and operating costs would depend on
the site selected for the new factory and were evaluated for each site.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
17.       It is desirable to locate the factory, housing development and
community facilities on agriculturally less suitable or unsuitable land.
However, this factor is not significant for the two sites north of the
Great Ruaha River when the 250 acres required is compared to over 20,000
acres of arable land available in the Ruembe Valley of which two thirds
(13,000) is scheduled as the cane area for the new factory. Land availability
in the general area does not impose any significant restrictions for selecting
the factory site except for the location alor.nside the existing factory.
18.       Access to existing facilities would be limited to connecting the
new factory site to the all-weather public road to Mikumi and constructing
a spur line from the East African Railways branch line to Kidatu. Construc-
tion costs for the access road and connecting rail line would depend on the
location of the factory and were evaluated for each site.
Evaluation of Location Alongside K I
19.       The capacity of the existing factory has almost doubled by several
expansion programs over the past years from an initial capacity of 1,300 TCD
in 1961 to its current capacity of 2,150 TCD. The congested physical con-
ditions in the factory and the layout of the existing plant will not readily
permit the magnitude of expansion necessary to handle the projected through-
put from the new cane areas. A complete new plant would have to be built
alongside the existing plant. Minimal factory costs, if any, would be saved
by locating the new factory alongside the existing factory. However, savings
of US$1 million to US$1.5 million would be possible in infrastructure develop-
ment, such as roads, rail lines, workshops, storage buildings, housing, and
community developments. If the new factory is arranged to permit supervision
and management by the existing senior staff, annual savings in senior factory
staff salaries would also be possible. Water development costs would be
about the same as for a factory located in the center of the new cane growing
area. Either location would require separate factory and irrigation water
systems.
20.       The major disadvantage of the existing factory site is its location
on the south bank of the Great Ruaha River across from the new Ruembe cane
growing area. In addition to long cane transport distances a new bridge
will be required to handle the volume of traffic which was estimated at 30
crossings per hour. The existing road bridge is inadequate to efficiently
handle public transport together with the projected volume of cane transport
as it is only wide enough to handle one way traffic and will add about 10 km
per journey over the closest alternative, the river-bank site, to the cane
transport distance. The mission's estimate for a new bridge across the Great
Ruaha River is about US$0.75 million. The savings in capital costs for factory
support facilities and infrastructure development was cancelled by additional
costs for water development and a new bridge across the Great Ruaha River.
The savings in factory senior staff salaries were more than offset by increased
cane transport costs.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Evaluation of Location on the North Bank of the Great Ruaha River
21.       This site located on the north bank of the Great Ruaha River about
1.5 km downstream from the existing road and rail bridges was proposed for
the new factory in the credit application. The site is located on the
southern boundary of the new Ruembe cane growing area. Cane transport costs
would be considerably higher than a more centrally located factory. Its
water development costs, however, were the lowest of the three sites and
investments in electric cable, piping, and rail access would be lower than
the central site. An argument for this site was the possible future extension
of cane development in the Msolwa area located about 25 km south of the
Great Ruaha River. If cane were to be transported long distances from the
south, this site would then be centrally located and therefore have a cane
transport cost advantage over one in central Ruembe. However, the mission
calculated that the proposed development of cane in the Msolwa area for K II
was uneconomic (para. 3) and the advantages of the river site for any such
expansion made little impact on a DCF analysis because they were so long term.
Evaluation of Location in the Center of the New Cane Growing Area
22.       Initial economic evaluation showed that a factory which was centrally
located in the new Ruembe cane growing area would be more suitable than a
factory located on the north bank of the Great Ruaha River. The additional
capital costs for a centrally located factory were estimated with agreement
of HVA at under US$1 million. Lower cane transport costs offset the higher
capital costs to give a 14% financial return on the incremental investment.
23.       However, new estimates produced in March 1974 raised this estimate
to US82.2 million and the cost of constructing a railway was raised to
US$1.3 following detailed survey for a routing. The return to this incremental
investment would be only 6.5% over 20 years: i.e., would reduce the return
on the Project. An alternative which accepted trucking sugar from factory to
rail-side and trans-shipping would have given considerably higher returns
(over 10%) but still would not have increased the Project return.
Conclusion
24.       On the assumption that future transport cost increases would be
broadly in line with other cost-increases, the central site would be less
favorable than the river-side location despite the fact that this will in-
volve over three times the cane transport of the central site. The cramped
location and high transport costs preclude a site close to K I. On available
data, the river site, as originally proposed, is therefore endorsed as the
least cost alternative.
June 12, 1974



ANNEX 1l'
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Critical Path Analysis
1.        The Critical Path Method is a means of scheduling activities which
comprise a Project taking account of the sequence of execution of the acti-
vities and their interdependence. The Project is represented in a diagram
with the activities depicted by arrows. The direction of the arrows
shows the flow of execution of the activities. The beginning and end of an
acitivity is marked by an event, depicted on the diagram by a small numbered
circle. An activity can be referred to by its description or by the numbers
of the starting and end events of that activity. A diagram of a complete
sequence of activities and events is called a CPM network.
2.        Sometimes it is not possible to depict completely the interdepen-
dencies of activities of a project by using only activities and events. For
this purpose an arrow in broken lines called a dummy is used. The presence
of a dummy shows interdependence which would otherwise not have existed. A
dummy may also be technically interpreted as an activity which does not re-
quire any time to complete.
3.        The sequencing logic of the project activities is obtained after
lengthy discussions with the project architect who also provides the activity
time estimates. In some cases involving delivery times for materials and
plant, prospective suppliers are also consulted. The time estimates shown
under the activity description in the CPM network are in months of project
time.
4.        The network is then analyzed by computer to obtain the project
schedule. The schedule shows for each activity the earliest times the
activity can start and finish and the latest times the activity must start
and finish. It also shows which activities have slack or spare time (i.e.
where the total available time for the activity is greater than the time
it needs to execute the activity), and which activities are tight or
have no slack. Activities which have no slack form a path (or paths) from the
starting (first) event to the end (last) event of the project. This path
is known as the critical path, and activities along the critical path have
to be executed strictly according to schedule if a delay in project comple-
tion is to be avoided. These activities are therefore the ones which require
the strictest supervision.
5.        The Kilombero Sugar Project network contains 75 events and 136
activities including dummies. The degree of detail is such that it will be
useful at a middle management level. One feature of the network is the
way in which the allowable contract period can be compared with the estimated
time for execution of the project activities under the contract. The path
5 - 65 - 74 giving the allowable contract period runs parallel to the rest



ANNEX 12
of the project contract activities. If upon analysis, this path is not critical
while a critical path appears along the project contract activites, then the
contract period allowed is not sufficient to cover the execution of the project
contract activities, and vice versa. If critical paths are developed at the
same time in the two areas, the contract period allowed will exactly equal
the estimated time required to execute the project contracted. The network
allows a half month head-start to the contractor from the time the contract
award is made to the date the contract becomes effective (Activity 5-65).
6.        The following critical paths are found in the network:
1 - 2 - 4 - 5 - 17 - 18 - 21 - 24 - 26 - 29 - 33 - 37 - 43 - 44 -
64 - 74 - 75
1 -3 - 4
17 - 41 - 43
5 - 6 - 7 - 10 - 11 - 12 - 74
5 - 65 - 74
The time to execute the project contract activities and the contract period
are both equal to 26-1/2 months, assuming contract work excludes plant
commissioning. If the effective date of the contract is May 1, 1974, the
completion date of the contract should be no later than July 15, 1976.
7.        A scheduled date of June 1, 1975 appears at both Events 39 and
73. This is the date when the activities leading to these events have to
be completed in order to provide facilities required for sugar cane planting.
The analysis shows the following dates for these events:
Event                     Earliest Possible Date
39                      July 15, 1975 (6 weeks behind schedule)
73                      April 15, 1975 (6 weeks ahead of schedule)
There will be no difficulty in meeting the scheduled date for Event 73, but
for Event 39 it will be necessary either to crash (reduce) the times of
activities before this event in order to meet the scheduled date, or to
accept the consequences of failure to meet the scheduled date. In this
particular case alternative provision for tractor maintenance has been made
in the form of movable temporary workshops in the KII area, backed up by the
facilities of KI. This area of Project execution should be closely supervised.
8.        As with all kinds of schedules the CPM network should be reviewed
regularly during the execution of the project with up-to-date information
on actual project progress and more accurate time estimates of uncompleted
and unstarted activities. Reviews may bring out anticipated delays in project



ANNEX 12
Page 3
completion, so that remedial measures can be taken at an early stage. They
may also point out that the critical path has changed and supervision focus
may be altered accordingly.
June 12, 1974






KILOMBERO   SUGAR   PROJECT  -   CPM   NETWORK
~6h   tso        1/                   -
IM97 M9dJ7gdqo
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,d*otato/*,  ~ac _4e
1?74~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
4  l  w   5  \DI     A    1974
!   t::4  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nr   -\--n* it97






TAN ZAN IA
KIDWIKBEIC STJGAR 2ROJECT
Summary of DeveloPment Costs
(Tsh 'OOO)
Foreign       Foreign
Project Year                                             1            2           3            4           5                       Ecchange       Frchange
1973/74     1974/75     1975/76      1976/77     1977/78         Total      Amount            %
Reference
Part I
Development Costs
Land development, transport, and
irrigation equipment                   Table 2      -         12992        27570        5830         2392         48784         45650             94
Other land development costs           Table 2     2000         4004        6236        3646         1823         17709          6742             38
Non-factory buildings and equipment  Table 4        230         4614        7060         2098         -            14002         4443             32
Water and electricity supplies         Table 4      140         1270         700          350         -             2460         1599             65
Comunity facilities                    Table 4      -            920        1080         300          -             2300          575             25
Access Railway and Road                Table 4     1130         2821         482          _           -             4433         2660             60
Sub-total                                 3500       26621        43128       12224         4215         89688         61669             69
Reyearch and Trainmng                    Table 5      -            440        2191         2086        1380           6097          2986            49
S,ugar Survey -        -                 Annex 10     -            714        1428          -           -             2142         1564             73
Kilosa District Development Corp.                      -           -           419          172         127            718           206            29
Total                                     3500       27775        47166       14482         5722         98645         66425             67
Contingencies
Physical 1/                                         150         3614        5354        1504          572          11190         7355             66
Price    2/                                         754        11270       26442        10429        4948         .53843        3536              66
Sub-total                                  204       14884        31796       11929         5520         65033         42891             66
Total Part I                              4404       42659        78962       2642i        11242        163678        109316             67
Part II
Factory (Turnkey contract including
plant, machinery, freight insurance
and local transport) 3/                             -         131057       81093       15264          -           227414       186731             82
Factory supervision i                                  -          2968        2428         1530         _             6926          6926            100
Total Part II                   _                   130           19I771                                              T
Total Project Cost                        4404      176684       162483       43205        11242         398018       3023               76
V1  10% physical contingency on all costs except turnkey contract.
2/ On equipment and vehicles:  20% in year 1, 14% in year 2, 11% in year 3, and 7.5% in year 4 and after.
On civil wmrks:  24% in year 1, 18% in year 2, 15% in year 3, and 12% thereafter.
On all other costs, 20% in year 1, and 10% thereafter.
3/ Negotiated contract price and only factory freight and insurance is subject to escalation of 10% physical contingency and 10% per year compounded price contingency.
4/ Negotiated contract price, not subject to any contingency provisions.
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Estate Developent
7Tsh '000)
Foreign   Foreign
Project Year                                                        1           2          3          4          5         Total       Exchange  Exchange
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76   1976/77   1977/78                    Amount
Unit Cost /
Compensation on Land                            2,000            2,000         -           -          -          -         2,000         -           _
Land Clearing and Preparation              Tsh 1,080/acre          -         2,925       4,190      2,614      1,339      11,068        5,866       53
Operating Costs
Road, and Bridge Construction               Tsh 25,260/km          -           729       1,417        640        283       3,069          184        6
Drainage                                    Tsh 162/acre            -           350         629        392       201       1,572           692       44
Irrigation Equipment                                                -           -       13,879        -          -        13,879       12,491        90
Vehicles and Equipment2/                                            -       12,992      13,691      5,830        ,        39 2         33,905 9 5
Total                                                             2,000     16,996      33,806      9,476      4,215      66,493       52,392        79
j Apart from the estimated cost of compensation for crops and buildings on land acauired, all unit costs were originally
calculated by HVA, based on experience with KI and were later verified and up-dated at appraisal.
Land clearance and preparation equipment and vehicles and equipment required to handle the project's
annual harvest in year of 200 working days, plus 10% for spares.
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KILQMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Non-Factory Develo2ont Expenditure
(TSh w000)
Foreign     Foreign
Project Year                     1           2            3           4           5          Total     Exchaxge    Exchange
%       Amount
Housing                 l/         230       4,254         6,390       1,678         -        12,552          25       3,138
Water and Electricity   2
Supplies                          140       1,270          700          350         -         2,460          65       1,599
Community Facilities               -          920        1,080          300         -         2,300          25         575
Accees Railway and Road  i       1,130       2,821          482           -          -         4,433          60       2,660
Office Furniture and
Equipment                          -          360          670          420         -         1,450          90       1,305
1,500       9,625        9,322       2,748          -        23,195          40       9,277
v  Permanent housing requirements for 47 senior staff, 120 junior staff, 665 other permanent
workers and 296 seasonal workers, and temporary buildings for all grades of staff.
/ Civil engineering and other capital expenditure connected with supply of water and electricity.
]/ Include a guest house, a comnunity centre, a primary school, police station, shopping centre and sports facilities.
v Includes civil works on access road, rail line and bridges.
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Research and Training Costs
(Tsh '000)
Foreign    Foreign
Project Year                                       1          2         3        13  /               Total         Exchange   Exchange
1973/74+   1974+/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78                  Amount 
Research
Agriculturalists                                   -          90        180       180        1301/    580             435         75
Assistants                                                               70        70         70       245             -           -
Equipment                                                    1 l))       30        30         30       245            125         51
27g0     -270-      270-       230      1,070             X         52
Training
Training Supervisor  /                             _          50        100       100        100       350            280         80
Equipment and Materials                            _          -         300        50         50       4oo            300         75
Local and Overseas fellowships
(Junior staff) 2/                               -          -        800        600       60o      2,000          1,100         55
Senior Staff Fellowshigs  /                        -          -         340       500        -         840            798         95
Junior Trainee Wages 3.
- Factory                                       -          -         300       750        250     1,300            130         10
- Estate                                        -          -         4°°       300        150       850             85         10
Senior Staff Trainee Salaries y                    _          -          30        45        -          75              4          5
-          50     2,270      2,345     1,150      5,815          2,697         46
Sub-total                                       _         330     2,550      2,625      1,380     6,885          3,257         47
Less: Included in Turnkey Contract                 -          -        (359)     (539)       -         (898)         (299)        33
Research s nd Training Salaries and Equipment        -          330     2,191     2,o86      1,380     5,987          2,958         49
Housing                                              -          110       -          -         -          110             28        25
Total Research and Training                          -          44o     2,191     2,o86      1,380      6,097         2,986         49
j One post localized in 1977/78
E Expatriate, in post January 1975.  Housing (Tsh 110,000 included in Annex -13 , Table5   ).
Annex8.   Fifteen man-years of overseas and sixty man-years of local fellowships.
y HVA estimates: total 5 man-years of training in the Netherlands.
5  One senior staff house costing Tsh 110,000.
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US7 t0o0)
Bank Group Financial                  IDA Quarterly                IDA Cumulative                Bank Quarterly               Bank Cumulative
Year and Quarter Ending               Disbursement                     Total                     Disbursement                      Total
1974/75
December 31                             450                           450                          -
March    31                           1,250                         1,700                          -                             -
June     30                           1,250                         2,950                          _                             _
1975/76
September 30                          1,300                         4,250                          -                             _
December  31                          1,300                         5,550                          -                             -
March     31                          2,300                         7,850                          - ,
June      30                          1,150                         9 ooo                        1,150                         1,150
1976/77
September 30                                                                                     2,050.                         3,200
December  31                                                                                     1,900                          5,100
March     31                                                                                       500                          5,600
June      30                                                                                       500                          6,100
1977/78
September 30                                                                                       500                          6,600
December  31                                                                                       500                          7,100
March     31                                                                                        0                           7,500
June      30                                                                                        300                         7,800
1978/79
September 30  300           8,100
September 30                                                                                       30                           8,4oo
December  31                                                                                        300                         8,7
March 31                                                                                           300                          8,00
June 30
June 25, 1974






ANNEX 15
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Kilombero II: Organization
1.        The following three charts show the organization and senior and
supervisory staffing of the Project factory and estate as projected for the
1976 season. The assumptions on expatriate staffing are based on expected
availability of trained Tanzanians at that date and the presumption that
K I would be localized first. The position of Chief Accountant shown on
Chart I is expected to be filled by a Financial Controller, probably an
expatriate.
2.        Expatriate posts are marked * on all charts.  Positions with
responsibilities in both K I and K II are shown in heavier outline on all
charts.
Chart 1:        Senior Staff
Chart 2:       Factory Staff
Chart 3:       Agricultural Services
June 12, 1974






TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
KILOMBERO 11 ORGANIZATION: SENIOR STAFF
I~~~~ 
E                      ~~~~~GENERAL MANAGER                                                            Chiart 1
ASSiSTANT GENERAL MANAGERJ
ACCOUNTS                                              PERSONNEL              TRAINING                                MEDICAL
CHIEF                                               PERSONNEL            TRAINING                                  MEDICAL
ACCOUNTANT                                              MANAGER                OFFICER                 OFICER
sENI R                  INTER                      SOCIAL WELFARE           ASSISTANT                                                     ASSISTANT
SENIOR                    INTERNAL                  PUBLIC RELATIONS         PERSONNEL                                NURSING                MEDICAL
ACCOUNTANT                   AUDITOR                       OFFICER               OFFICER                                 OFICER                 OF
SENIOR
PURCHASING
OFFICER                                                                                 AGRIC LTURAL
FACIORY                                                       SERVICES
FACTORY                                                     AGRICULTURAL
L    MANAGER                                                        MANAGER
(See Chart 2)                                                  (See Chart 3)
Joint posts
shared by              * Expatriate in posts at
K I and K II             start-up (1976)                                                                                            World Bank-8715



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
KILOMBERO 11 ORGANIZATION: FACTORY STAFF
FACTORY                                                                           Chart 2
Factory Manager
H;n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                 7  17I=
TECHNICAL DEPARTMENT                            CvlEgneFisEecralnr.PROCESS DEPARTMENT
s                    ~~~~~~~Civil Engineer                  First Electrical Engr.
Chief Engineer    *                                          _                                        *                       Chief Chemist      *
_       *_                                                                               -   -      *
First Engineer                                                                      Instrument Engineer                    Senior Chemist
Shift/Maint. Engrs.           Workshops Engr                 Elect. En.                   Shift Chemists                Lab. Chemist                Admin.Chemist
* ~  ~~~~~~~                                                                                           ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~ j  i    a  
|Mech. Workso                                         
Cane House                                        Electrical Workshop            Juice Process                 Factory Control              Factory Repot |
Juice Extraction Plant                           Instrument Workshop             Sugar Process                Cane \Veighbridge             Sugar StockE l
Steam Generation Plant                                                           Sugar Bagging and
Power Generation Plant                                                           Storage
Shift/Plant Repair & Maint.
a                             a
a        a                            a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol Bank80



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
KILOMBERO II ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
Chart 3
AGRICLJLTURAL
SERVICES
Agricultural
Manager'
MECHANISATION                                    RESEARCH                                         FIELD
DEPARTMENT                                      DIVISION                                     DEPARTMENT
Tractor Workshops                            Chief Agriculturaiist,                            Field Manager'
Man aqe                                                                                        g     _
Agronomist*    h
Assistant Agronomist
Trartor Workshop                                                     2
Engineer
(Irrigation)
(Cultivationl 2
Harvesting  3
(General) 4
Assistant Field        Assistant Field        Assistant Field       Assistant Field
Manager,               Manager,               Manager,              Manager,
Harvesting             Irrigation             Outgrowers            Mechanical
Drainage and                                 Cultivation,
Roads.                                       Land Preparation
.         |   ~~~Su,oerviso                     
Managetio,    h                         I      Section      l  l      Section                Section
iField Cultivationsl                                Manager                Manager                Manager
World Bank-8703






ANNEX 16
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Project Development: Organization
The Chart shows the role, under the direction of the Kilombero
Sugar Company advised by HVA, of Departments of the existing plant (K I);
of the newly created Departments of K II; and of HVA and others in the develop-
ment of the Project. The composition of the consortium supplying the turnkey
factory package is also displayed.
June 12, 1974






TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT: ORGANIZATION
.UGAR  IEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
F-i-
r,
KILOMOERO I IKI)                                                                                                     KILOM8ERO 11 (KII)
Et8tittg ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~    ~     -%p Pt.k PA'c
AEsrie.Itaral               Attcill-rv                   Pacene
STORK WERKSPOOR SUGAR
General Factory Oe agn
OUTGROWER                                       FACTORY                                   AGRICULTURAL                                  AGRICULTURAL                                                 HVA
SERVICES                                     SERVICES                                           Fetory Con-lt.an-a                                 5ISH AND PARTNERS
z                l                             n         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CrrIl Detragn amyd InspyctrOy
STORK WERKSPOOR SUGAR                        r           RUUN AND SORENSEN
Pp v Inltl  i C nt       s       uppl 1220C tc1to K{ l   } * Stttil T-4ntzg A                                   s           *L..and 0leannq and Invelling                                Turnkey ContraStr                                           - E lyCtrr Suy. Erector
*Aqiultnral. d-nlnnon-l                          (E...l and Ourgenn-rs
- Eapansor to ofet Iran                             Jp                                          A.eon,d roads                              a  trroabon & dr nage_
*  Tra-tee ma,tenan-e -                           Ro8d h beidg%                                    SUPPLY AND CONSTRUCTON OF                                                             )M
!                                                         *  Fleseewth                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~          ~         ~~~~~~* Plantmn b&CrernPPm  p * Fa cl'eyb&ancrllar,ten                         M Eeytrurc 
Ii-n &  -pp   _                                     Fact ty & lrrtror  water   OFPpI_    CG JENSEN                               El
. ___ ,_   I _ _ ____ _                            .__F _                                                                                                                                  Cnnstroet-ln_
C G IENSEN
CONTRACTOR S                                   3 D               E A RAILWAYS                              DDS MDLLER t AOCHUMSEN
Fna--crpt from 1utch  Dannis bi-lral and f-ud.                                                                                                                           S                                                                                      E __n__
tSer-rcen prn led -n -mdl ,teete by en-eti-t9 ftenty. etate end -ut9twr-__
Wa ad Bbe  k d7C4






ANNEX 17
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
World Sugar Situation and Price Projection for 1980
Present Situation
1.        For the fifth consecutive year sugar prices in the world market
known as th. "free market" have increased, and the average price for 1973
was about 5 times higher than that for 1968. Prices in the preferential
markets of the United States and the United Kingdom have also risen but
not as fast as in the world market (Table 1).
Table 1: Sugar Prices in the lWorld Markets (f.o.b. Caribbean)
and Indices of Food and Sugar Prices
Primary   Sugar Price in    Sugar Price in            Commonwealth
Commodity  the Free Market/i the US /1             Sugar Agreement Price /2
Year     Food Index   i/lb. Index          Hllb. Index           ¢/lb. Index
1965         100       2.02      100       5.80    100          5.82    100
1966        102        1.81       90       6.04    104          5.94    102
1967         101       1.92       95       6.32    109          5.94    102
1968          97       1.90       94       6.54    113          5.10      88
1969         101       3.20      158       6.75    116          5.10      88
1970        108        3.69      183       6.94    120          5.10      88
1971         114       4.50      223       7.39    127          5.10      88
1972         128       7.27      360       7.99    138          6.60    102
1973         140 (est) 9.49      470       8.91    148          5.56      96
1974        n.a.      19.32      956      15.99    276          6.45    111
(lst qtr.)
Source:   For primary commodities food index:  United Nations, Monthly
Bulletin of Statistics.
For sugar prices: International Sugar Organization, Sugar
Year Books, various issues; U. S. D. A., Sugar Reports,
various issues.
/1   Price for export under U. S. Sugar Act.
/2   The decline in 1968 reflects devaluation of the pound in 1967.  The
exchange rate used for 1972 was E1 = $2.50 and for 1973: E1 = $2.42.



ANNNEX 17
Page 2
Since the last quarter of 1973 sugar prices in the world market have
continued to climb and in March 1974 reached an all time high level of
214 lb. (f.o.b. Caribbean, raw value). The price spiral is the result of
a variety of factors, including lagging production. Since 1964/1965 world
consumption has increased by more than 19.5 million tons: in the same
period production rose by only 10.5 million tons. Stocks as proportion of
consumption have declined since 1970/71, indicative of this tightening
supply situation (Table 2).
Table 2: World Production, Consumption and Stocks of Sugar (Raw):
1964/65 to 1972/73/1
(million metric tons)
World Sugar Stocks
World Sugar    World Sugar  at the end of the   Stocks as % of
Year          Consumption    Production   Season (8/31)            Consumption
1964/1965        59.3             66.8            18.9               31.9
1965/1966        62.8             63.1            19.2               30.6
1966/1967        65.5             65.6            19.3               29.5
1967/1968        65.6             66.4            20.1               30.6
1968/1969        68.2             67.8            19.7               28.9
1969/1970        72.2             74.3            21.8               30.2
1970/1971        74.6             72.8            20.0               26.8
1971/1972        76.2             73.2            17.0               22.3
1972/1973        78.8             77.3            15.5               19.7
/1    The statistics are for a campaign year, September to September.
Source: F. 0. Licht, International Sugar Report, various issues.
2.        What distinguishes the past three years shortage is its longevity.
Periods when high sugar prices have ruled in the past tended to be of short
duration as they encouraged an immediate substantial expansion in output. For
example, the high prices of sugar in 1963 (averaging about 8.7 US cents/lb.)
were followed by a large expansion in production the following two years in
the order of 7.5 and 5 million tons respectively. Numerous factors explain
the marginal increase in output despite the increasing sugar prices of the
past 3 years. In the beet sugar sector most of the countries concerned are
either highly developed or centrally planned and land in these is generally at
a premium. Sugar is only one of several commodities presently in high
demand and is therefore competing for the existing areas cultivated. In the
cane sugar producing countries, land is also relatively scarce but in addition
the high and increasing cost of establishing new factories and the difficulty
of securing financing, pose major obstacles to rapid expansion. Most
developing countries do not have sufficient funds of their own to establish
new industries, private outside finance is often not available, and their
recourse to international public sources has proved to be insufficient.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
3.        Other important reasons which contributed to the shortage of sugar
in the past 2 years other than the rapid increase in demand, include the
drought in the USSR during the past two years, and in Cuba during 1972. The
USSR became a large importer of sugar from the free market, in addition to
imports from Cuba, increasing competition for the reduced available exports.
Information received from the Soviet Union indicates that imports will no
longer be needed from the world market in 1974 but on the other hand Cuban
sugar may not be as abundant for exports to the world market either. Cuba
negotiated trade agreements with some of her socialist partners early in 1973:
under these her sugar now fetches 11 USI per lb. compared with 6 US4 per lb.
under previous agreements. This will presumably lead to a greater emphasis
on shipments to East Europe than to other destinations.
Medium Range Changes in the World Market
4.        Production expansion is projected in several countries:  Brazil has
plans for continued growth, the proposed five-year plan in India envisages
renewed development, and several of the smaller cane producers are hoping
to take steps toward self sufficiency. However, there are major obstacles
to recovery of the supply situation in the next year or two. First, the
effects of the severe drought in Northeast Brazil and some other Latin
American countries, which occurred in 1973. Second, toward the end of 1973
the EEC revised its sugar export estimates to about half of the original
figure of approximately 800,000 tons, following a new export levy on sugar.
Since the world market prices for sugar have already exceeded the EEC prices
for some time, any strong incentive to expand exports was in a conflict with
the EEC policy of holding its member countries' prices stable. Third, the
U. S. will probably encounter a drop in output of sugar produced from sugar
beets, and unless there is a change in the relative returns to farm commodities
it is unlikely that this situation will be rapidly reversed. As a result the
U.S. is expected to increase significantly its import demand for sugar. Its
cane sugar production is not likely to make up the shortfalls in beet sugar.
5.        At the end of 1973 negotiations to renew the International Sugar
Agreement failed and the Agreement expired. The old Agreement, which had been
in force since 1968, provided price and quota regulation systems in which
participants to the agreement were bound to operate and exporting countries
received a fixed price set by the Agreement (the supply committment price).
However, at present, with restrictions lifted, sugar prices have soared
upward and are not likely to fall until the supply situation improves.
A Longer Range Forecast
6.        One important factor which will dominate the long run sugar situation
is the energy crisis, with its impact on transportation costs. Until 1973,
cost of sugar transportation was a minor factor and ranged between 15 and
25 dollars per ton for the most important routes of destination. However, early
in 1974 freight rates were at least three times as high as they were a year



ANNEX 17
Page 4
previously. These very large increases have been maintained through all
sections of the market, from short sea trades to large bulk carriers and
time charter. An indication of the phenomenal increase in rates is provided
by the nominal Caribbean/UK freight rate, which, commencing at Z6.00, rose
constantly throughout 1973, particularly during the last six months, to the
year-end level of Z18.00 per ton. Representative rates paid for sugar freight
during 1973 were: (US$ton):
High            Low
Philippines - U.S. Atlantic/Gulf                    $25.00          $14.00
Brazil - Arabian Gulf                               $55.00          $18.50
Poland - East Africa                                $51.50          $32.00
Dunkirk - Red Sea                                   $60.00          $18.00
It is likely that firm conditions will continue and that the rates will not
fall even when the supply of oil from the Arab states improves.
7.        The main implication of the rise in freight rates is the increased
incentive to achieve self-sufficiency in sugar production by countries which
have the natural conditions to do so. It is estimated that the cost of sugar
production at the farm gate in the Caribbean area is approximately US$100.00
per ton, compared with about US$150.00 per ton in the old EEC (when it com-
prised the six members). Even if a country could not produce sugar before
the hike in freight rates at a cost significantly below the old EEC, and
therefore imported, an increase of US$30 to US$40 per ton in the transporta-
tion rate, obviously makes self-sufficiency much more attractive. There are
other costs changes resulting from the energy crisis which will affect par-
ticularly the cost of industrial production. Therefore, also the cost of
refining and processing of sugar is likely to rise. It is projected that the
price of sugar in the world market by 1980 will be 13.54/lb. in current terms
(f.o.b. Caribbean, raw value), equivalent to 8.7i/lb. in 1974 constant prices.
Forecasts for 1974 through 1980 are shown in Table 3.
Table 3: Sugar Price Forecast for 1974-1980
(US4/lb., raw, f.o.b. Caribbean)
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Sugar (World) (Current)           18.0   15.0   12.0   12.0   11.5   12.4   13.5
Index
1967-69 = 100                783    652    522    522    500    539    587
Sugar (World) (Constant
1974 prices)                   18.0   13.5   10.1    9.4    8.5    8.4    8.5
Sugar (U.S. Preferential)
(Current)                      16.0   15.0   16.0   17.0   18.5   20.0   21.5
Index
1967-69 = 100                246    231    246    262    285    308    331
Sugar (U.S. Preferential)
(Constant 1974 price)          16.0   13.5   13.4   13.3   13.4   13.5   13.5



ANNEX 17
Page 5
8.        Approximate equivalent semi-refined c.i.f. Dar-es-Salaam prices for
the samne period would be:
Table 4:   (a) Forecast Semi-Refined Sugar Price, c.i.f.
Dar-es-Salaam, Current Terms
1974   1975    9 76   1977   1978   1979    1980
US /lb.                           21.1   18.0   15.0   15.2   14.8   15.9   17.3
Tsh/m ton                        3,330  2,830  2,365  2,390  2,330  2,510  2,725
(b) Forecast Semi-Refined Sugar Price, c.i.f.
Dar-es-Salaam, Constant (1974> Terms
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
USI/lb                            21.1   16.4   12.7   12.0   11.0   10.9   11.2
Tsh/m ton                        3,330  2,575  2,000  1,885  1,735  1,715  1,765
June 12, 1974






TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Kilombero Sugar Cmpax  Limited: Pro1ected Cash Flow Statement
_opY(Tsh' Million)
1         2         3          4         5         6         7          8         9         10        11         12        13
Project Year                                     1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86
Sugar Sales at 1450 / per ton                       63        63         76       108       124        130       128       127        124        124       127       124        124
molasses sales at 150 / per ton                     -           1         2         4          4         4         4          5                              5
Total Sales                                      63        64         78       112       128        134       132        132       131       131        132       131        131
Operating Costs Including Depreciation              46        50         59        85        84        101        99         99       100        100       100        100       100
Interest on Government Loan                         -          7         13        15        15       -1          15         14        13         13        12         11        10
Total Costs                                     146        57     ~72          100        99                  114       113        113       113        112       1ll        110
Net Profit before Ta,2                              17         6          6        12        29         18        18         19        18         18        20         20        21
Company Tax at 40o%   Y                             -          7          2         2         5         12         7          7         8          7         7          8         8
Net Profit after Tax                                17         (1)        4        10        24          6        11         12        10         11        13         12        13
Depreciation                                         9         12        13        28         30        30        30         30        31         31        31         31        31
Government Equity for K II  /                        2       100         98        22         6                                   -         -          -         -
Government Loan for K II   /                         2        76         64        21         5         _                    -         _          _         _          -
Total Cash Inflow                                30      Ii7   x 7              T        Ei        7         7T          r    w ii        X 2-          1
Capital Expenditure
Development Costs                                    4        176       162        43         11
Asset Replacements                                   7          7         8         8          9        13        15         14        15         15        15         15        15
Repayment of Government Loan - Principal
only 4     '                                      _          _         _                               6         6          7         8          8         9         10        11
Incremental Working Capital _/                      15         _          5         7         -          6        -
Total Cash Outflow                               26      I7          1               75                        -"         21 T   n                          
Net Cash Inflov                                      4          4         4        23         45        11        20         21         18        19         20        18         18
Cumulative                                           4          8        12        35         80        91       111        132        150       169       189        207       225
i/ Assessed and paid on profit of the previous year. As a loss of Tsh 1.4 million was sustained in 1972/73, no tax is payable in 1973/74, and
taxable profit for 1974/75 is reduced by Tsh 1.4 million.
| Depreciation is assumed to equal capital allowances.
3 50% of all project costs incurred by KSC.                                                                                                                                                        co
Five years of grace followed by 15 yearly instalments.
5s Based on 4 months' operating costs.
June 14, 1974






ANNEX 1 )
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Pricing Between KSC and Outgrowers
1.        This annex outlines the considerations affecting the determination
of the price to be paid for outgrowers cane for the purpose of preparing pro-
jections of the separate operating units in the Project. While it is not the
intention to pre-determine such price or the repayment rates by outgrowers of
KSC's development and recurrent expenditures, the price should ensure the
maintenance of outgrowers' production incentives and their repayments reflect
a full recovery of KSC costs.
Land Clearing and Development
2.        Machine and implement costs per acre have been computed as in the
estate development: they include KSC plantation and transport department
overheads. Depreciation and interest have been added. KSC overheads for
joint services and administration have been ommitted; they present allocation
problems and do not significantly increase the per acre charge, and they will
necessarily be incurred in order to develop the K II estate. Pro-rata charges
have also been included for roads, bridges and culverts, and for in-field
drainage.
Field Operating Costs
3.        Operation to be carried out by KSC on behalf of outgrowers
(ujamaa villages and KDDC) are as follows:
Plant cane:  Seedcane supply
Planting by machine
Replanting:  Land preparation
Seedcane supply
Planting by machine
In addition all up-hilling operations in cane fields of ujamaa villages
would be performed by KSC. The costs have been calculated similarly to
those for land clearing and development (para. 2).
Transport
4.        The cost per ton of transporting cane to the factory has been
calculated as cost per tractor/trailer hour (which includes KSC transport
department overheads) times the weighted average distance of the entire cane



ANNEX 19
Page 2
development from the factory. It has been assumed that all outgrowers will
be charged equally for each ton collected rather than by the ton-mile driven,
the latter being disadvantageous to growers allocated land more than the
average distance from the factory.
Depreciation and Interest
5.        Depreciation per machine-hour has been calculated on the under-
standing that crawlers and their implements would last 12,000 hours and
tractors and implements would last 8,000 hours, with zero scrap value.
Interest has been allocated on the assumption that these working lives would
cover four years.
Cane Price
6.        The price to be paid for outgrowers' cane delivered to the factory
weighbridge must provide a cash flow to cover the outgoings, including loan
servicing and machinery replacements, and must further provide a net return
to farmers sufficient to give them an incentive to grow cane rather than an
alternative crop. The price used in the projections is equivalent to Tsh
50.00 per m ton at 10.5% sugar in 1973-74. This compares with the current
price of Tsh 42.50 per m ton. Advances of Tsh 30 are currently paid to
outgrowers at the time of delivery, and the balance is paid at the end of
the season. A similar arrangement is assumed for K II; it is assumed the
advance would be set at 85% of the final price at 10.5% sugar. Amounts
charged in respect of the operations described above would be deducted from
the cane price advances; the remainder of the price would be paid monthly
after analysis and processing. Deductions in respect of initial land clearing
and development costs would be applied to cane deliveries and recovered over
6 years for ujamaa villages and over 11 years for KDDC, :L each case at 9%
interest annually; this enables a constant figure to be established and known
in advance. The longer loan repayment period for KDDC reflects the higher
development costs, including paid labor.
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR COMPANY
Government Cash Flvv From the Projeft
_Sh. .0
Project Year                                         1            2             3            4            5             6            7            8            -9.           o             11            12           13
1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77       1977/78      1978/79      1979/80       1980/81      1981/82       1982/83       1983/84      1984/85       1985/86
Cash Inflow
Turnkey Contract - Dutch Loan                    22777        40055        14923          785          -             -             -
- Danish -Loan                 40750        51-570       31017           185         -
Banrk Fnd                                          -            -           8211         35343        12138         8586
IDA  aund                                          -          21063        43197            -          -             -             -            -             -            _             _              _
Excise on Sugar                                    -            -            -           14549        17722        18984         18307        18004         18122        1832          18122          18           18
Loan Service from KSC                              180         7200        12780         14670        15120        25842         20842        20842         20842        20842         20842          20342        2082
Company Tax from ESC (N II)                        -            -                          -           -             1200         7200         6800          6400         6800          6800           6800         680o
Total Cash Inflow                        63707       119888       110128         65532        44266        44980         46349        45646         45346        45764         45764          45764        45764
Cash Outflo,
Servicing of Dutch loan                             28          471          583           589          589          589           589          589           589           589          583            577          571
Repayment of Loans- Dutch                            -                                                   -             -                                                                 T85            785           785
- Danish                         -            -            -            -             -            -          4941          4941         4941          4941          4941          4941          4941
Interest and Repaoment of
-          482          421         3639          4519         5412         5412          6>47         6>47          6547          6547          6547          6547
Servicing of IDA Credit                              -          158          482           482          4852 482                   1            482           432           482          12M0          1115         1110
Investment in KSC - Equity                        2000       100000         98000        22000         6000                                -                          -             -                    -             -
Loan to KSC                                       2000        76000         64000        21000          5000
Other Project Expenditure                          404          684           483          205          242                                                                                              -            -
Total Cash Outflow                        4432       177795       163969         47915        16832         6483         11424         112SS                                   1-6            13965        13954
Net Annual Inflow (Outflow)              59275       (57907)      (53841)        17617        27434        38497         34925         33087        32787         33205        31788          31799        31810
Cumulative Inflow (Outflow)              59275         1368       (52473)       (34856)       (7425)       31075         66000         99087       131874       165079        196867         228666       260476
Tune 25, 1974



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Foreign Exchange - Receipts or Savings and Payments
1           2            3           4            5           6            7            8               9 - 20
Project Year                                       1973/74      1974/75     1975/76      1976/77     1977/78      1978/79      1979/80     1980/81       1981 through 1993
Kilombero Sugar Company
Receipts
K II Sales proceeds                                 -           -            -           86.9       103.3        119.3       119.4        120.3              120.3
K I Sales proceeds from K II cane                   -           -           14.0          -           -- 
Total Receipts                                 -           -           14.0        86.9        103.3       119.3        119)4        120.3              120.3
Payments
K II: Operating costs                               -           0.5          3.7          7.8        10.3         11.2        10.9         10.9                10.9
Overheads                                     -           0.4          0.7         3.3          4.7          4.7         4.7          4.7                4.7
Estate development                            -           2.4         25.7         4.o          1.8          -                        -
Property Plant and Equipment                 1.6        125.1         73.6        13.7          2.7          -           -            -
Plant and Equipment Replacement.              -           -            -           -            -            4.3         6.2          5.4                6.4
Researcb, Survey and Training                 -           0.6          1.9         1.1          0.8          0.3         0.3          0.3                0.3
Working Capital                              1.4          o.6          0.3          0.3         -            -            -           -
K I : Processing cost (K II cane)                   -            -           1.2          -           -            -            -           _                   _
Existing Outgrowers:
Reduction in Sale                           -           -                         5 5.6       2.1          -
Cane Transport Saving                       -           -            -           (1-1)       (1.1)        (1.1)            )       (1.1)               (1.1)
Total Payments                                3.0        129.6        107.1         34.7        21.3         19.4        21.0         20.2               21.2
Net Foreign Exchange Saving or
Receipts                                  (3.0)      (129.6)       (93.1)       52.2         82.0         99.9        98.4        100.1                99.1
June 12, 1974



ANNEX 21
Page 1
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
A. Rate of Return
1.        The internal economic rate of return (IER) of the Project over a
twenty-year period is estimated to be 13%. The costs and benefits used in
this calculation are set out in Table 1. In calculating the rate of return
it is assumed that all sugar production would be consumed in Tanzania in
substitution for imports from the world market and that molasses production
would be exported. The sugar prices used are projections for Gulf/Caribbean,
raw (converted to semi-refined at 93%) plus bagging, and freight and insurance,
to Dar-es-Salaam at US$42 m ton in 1974 prices (Annex 20, Table 4). Molasses
has been valued at a net US$21 f.o.b. Dar-es-Salaam price for 1974. The
returns have been shadow-priced at US$1.00 - Tsh 10.00 (140% of the official
exchange rate) to reflect the economic value to Tanzania of foreign exchange.
2.        All incremental cost elements have been charged including some items
such as training and the survey for future developments the benefits of which
are only partially attributable to the Project. These have minor impact on
the IER. Imported items have been shadow-priced at US$1.00 - Tsh 10.00 but no
other shadow prices have been introduced: cane cutters are skilled workers
whose marginal return may be assumed to be reflected in their pay, and any
adjustments in rates for unskilled labor, certainly nationally in plentiful
supply, would not make significant impact on results. Locally there would be
little surplus unskilled labor. No costs are attributed to ujamaa family
labor which will continue its present subsistence cultivation.
3.        Physical contingencies of 10% are allowed on all investment costs
except the factory turnkey package for which a fixed price has been negotiated.
Costs have been taken as constant at estimated 1974 levels.
B. Sensitivity Analysis
4.        The sensitivity of the IER of the Project to changes in cost and
benefit streams are shown below: they should be compared with a computed
Project return of 13%.
Variation                                             Rate of Return
a.   Import Substitution Price of Sugar
(i)  consistently 20% lower than estimate              7%
(ii) consistently 20% higher than estimate            18%



ANNEX 21
Page 2
b.   Cane Yields
(i)  consistently 20% lower                             9%
(ii) consistently 20% higher                           17%
C.   All operating costs
ti)  20% higher throughout                             11%
(ii) 20% lower throughout                              14%
d.   Estate Development Costs
(i)  20% above estimates                               12%
(ii) 20% below estimates                               13%
e.   Factory has first season in 1977
(loss of 2/3 of 1976 sales)                            11%
f.   Estate development delayed one year
(factory ready but no throughput)                      10%
g.   Estate development delayed one year, and
development and operating costs up 20%                9%
5.        As might be expected the Project is sensitive to sugar prices:
roughly a 3% change in average import substitution price results in a 1%
change in the return to the Project. Because variable costs change in
the same direction, cane production variations, which could result from a
combination of different yields per acre or area under cane, have a con-
siderably smaller impact on the Project. Failure of the factory to meet
the 1976 season deadline results in only a small reduction in returns--as
was anticipated at appraisal. Delay In estate development which leaves
the factory ready but idle is more serious, reducing the return by 2.5%,
or one-fifth.
6.        Given reasonable accuracy in price forecasts, it seems likely that
the IER would be within the range 10-15%.
June 12, 1974



TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT
Economic Cost and Benefit
(Tsh Million)
1           2           3            4           5            6           7            8            9 - 20
1973/74     1974/75     1975/76      1976/77     1977/78      1978/79     1979/80      1980/81     1981 through 1993
Kilombero Sugar Company
Benefits
K II Sales Proceeds  /                              -            -           -          94.4        106.4       112.8        112.1        110.3            111.1
K I - K II Cane - Sugar Sales Proceeds              -            -          23.4          -                                                 -
Total KSC Benefits                                                     23.44                   106.4       112.8        112.1       110.3             111.1
Costs
K II:Operating Costs                                -            1.5         7.6        21.6         27.8        31.1         30.1         30.3             30.3
Overhead                                       -            0.7         1.1         5.1          6.6         6.6          6.6         6.6               6.6
Estate Development                             2.0         6.8         38.8         9.7          4.0         -            -           -                 -
Property Plant and Equipment                   2.4       193.0        115.6        23.6          3.0         -            -           -                 -
Non-Factory Building                           2.1         12.9        11.5         3.6          -           -            -           -                 -
Plant and Equipment Replacement                -            -           -           -            -           5.0          7.3         6.4               7.5
Research, Survey and Training                  -            1.5         4.4         2.6          1.7         0.8          0.8         o.8               0.8
Working Capital                                3.7          1.2         o.4         o.4          -           -            -           -                 -
K I: Processing Cost                                -            -           2.9          -           -            _           _            _                 _
Reduction in Sales Proceeds due to
transfer of Outgrowers                       -            -           -           6.2          1.9         -            -            -                -
KDDC Labor                                     -            -           0.2         0.4          0.5         0.5          0.5          0.5               0.5
KDDC Other Costs                               -            -           0.4         0.2          0.1         -            -            -                 -
Existing Outgrowers Cane Transport
Cost Saving                                                                      (2.4)        (2.4)        (2.4)       (2.4)        (2.4)             (2.14)
Total KSC Costs                               10.2        217.6       182.9        71.0         43.2         41.6        42.9         42.2              43.3          F 
H
KSC Net Benefit                              (10.2)      (217.6)     (159.5)       23.4         63.2        71.2         69.2         68.1              67.8
Economic Rate of Return : 12.94
1/  Prices used in economic evaluation are:  Sugar: 1976 : Tsh 2000 per m ton
1977 :     1885 "       "
1978 :     1735 "       I
1979 :     1715 "       "
1980 on:   1765 " 
Molasses: Tsh 150 per m ton throughout.
june 12, 1974






IBRD 10889
APRIL 1974
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO SUGAR PROJECT                                                                    RvO
- Project area boundary                                              La   0                \'',\'_--' SELOUS  GAME   RESERVE
---Project division boundaries
4     Proposed KSC factory site (Kll)
>Tffl.i,,  Existing outgrowers' cane fields
Ilrrigable area,
=       \ Unsuitable and marginal land
All-weather roads
Railway
0     Villages
=Rivers
Bridges                               Mswers 
o        1        2        3        4        5         0
Kilo.meers                                              -
M,Ies                   ' iT      7r      S         ,                              'i      C"L\  \
01~~~~~~~~~~~
K-'
X   '                               2                /
v/    h          %          ~1    I7                    \g\XX\\x   -s\su
,<    idodi                 v      /,                    ;\sj.\<<\t    
/~~~~~~~~"                              G             E,\ .   j. .; j\\Li\'xg
Kiftinga 
-72r  >>  .<'\ )'e .. PROJECT AREA DIVISIONS
(Areos and approximate gross acreage)
/17\  v / / /  U    \/     \ *  \A  2500 acres  Outgrowers, Kitete uiamaa village
B  4700 acres  Estate, including irrigated cane
C  3800 acres  Estate, rainfed
D  4600 acres  Kilosa District Development Corp.
--\R                                                                                       1800 acres  Outgrowers
0                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F 1200 aicres  Outgrowers
G  1600 acres Ouitgrowers
Mkmb                                 SEOUTGMARSEV
z -< ,, - * 4 N 5 a w YZ-  ~                                                           o    * r
MLABANt  (ST(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AZAI
V ) ILLAG E                 C FACI'ORYMtibao
/ 6 j S * i - ; \ . 9S>~~~~~~~~~~~~ongan do                                                Dar es Soloo  <;
V i . ii - ! R k - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:i-. .......<-  ....:,,   lt   
TANZANIA
/ -. .C  -                                        n    i.  i  \  .i>  .....  -  ...  .... / TEz /M.4zilivarcl .hrbve .2 tiliswIIa.,1; /.--  f
t-   l   v,-<<   /     F     S _./zPirtrl<hatelzeil .ta.criaze b!tic  ' .   li4; ;  =o,,_~, *, 
K '  ; -A . ' EW ' '_   _   '_M.Z.   .      ;_..  iM    ..  iS:;   ;  .>  \  . , W*rldh li ttld Is anIlvet  at  ~  :) 4*0.,a



