.4    CIRCULATING COPy
F ILE COj~~~~~~~~~TOREPORTS DESK
FILE COP-Y                            Xt.                    n_
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1468-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 31, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USED IN THIS REPORT
Tanzania Sh  = US$ 0.14
US$ 1.00     = TShs 7.14
TANZANIA FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SUGAR DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan for the equivalent of Us$9.0 million and a proposed
credit for the equivalent of US$9.0 million to the United Republic
of Tanzania to help finance a project for the construction of a sugar
factory and the developsment of an associated sugar estate and out-
grower development. The loan would have a term of 25 years, including
five years grace, with interest at 8 percent per annum. About $17.7
million of the proceeds of the loan and credit would be relent to the
Kilombero Sugar Company for 25 years, including five years grace, with
interest at 9 percent per annum. The Government of the Netherlands
and the Kingdom of Denmark are expected to make available US$11.0
million equivalent and US$17.3 million equivalent, respectively, to
help finance the factory component of the Project.
PART I - THE ECONO14Y
General
2.        The last full Economic Report on Tanzania (AE-26) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on May 22 and June 22, 1972.
This was followed by an Economic Updating Report (30-TA) which was
distributed on December 11, 1972 and which was especially prepared
for the East African Consultative Group meeting on Tanzania of
January 1973. An agriculture rural development sector mission visited
Tanzania during September/October 1573; its report is expected to
be issued by September. A mission to study the industrial and mining
sectors is scheduled to visit Tanzania in August 1974.
3.        Tanzania celebrated its first decade of independence in
December 1971. In the past 11 years gross national product increased
in real terms by some 65 percent to the present level of about $1.5
billion. During the same period, life expectancy at birth increased
from 35 to 41 years, infant mortality declined   fron 250 to 160 per
thousand live births, maternal mortality declined from 4.7 to 2.7
per thousand deliveries, and the primary school enrolment rate increased
from about 28 to 37 percent of the relevant age group. While this
sample of economic and social indicators shows that significant
progress has been made, it also gives sorde idea of the magnitude and



-2-
difficulty of the development task facing the country. For example,
while GNP grew at 4.7 percent per annum in real terms during these
years, these gains were to a large extent offset by the growth of
population, with the result that per capita income increased at
only 2.2 percent per annum. Tanzania is one of the 25 least developed
countries.
4.        Tanzania has a one-party system which is embodied in the
constitution. The party, TANU, is a well-organized mass party and
is actively engaged at the grass roots in the promotion of popular
involvement in the national development effort, and within the party
democratic principles, are being strictly adhered to. In economic
policy making, the long-term objective of social equality prevails
over economic interests of minority groups; some progress towards
reducing inequality of income distribution within the category of
eraployed workers has been made, but large gaps continue to exist
between urban and rural standards of living.
Economic Performance and Resource Mobilization
5.        Tanzania's economic performance in recent years has been
characterized by high marginal savings, relatively low returns on
investment, and rapid institutional change. The growth of production
however, has been modest in most sectors, especially in agriculture.
The combination of moderate production growth rates and a very ambitious
investment program has led to severe pressure on resources. This
pressure has been partly alleviated by steadily increasing external
capital inflows and, until recently, by an improvement in the country's
terms of trade. Although favorable world market prices for several of
Tanzania's principal exports and the growing contribution for local
project costs by foreign donors, had helped to build up external
reserves equivalent to about three months, imports at the beginning
of 1974, the recent rise in oil prices has drastically changed the
situation. It is estimated that the foreign exchange cost of the
oil price increase is in the region of $58 million per year. This
compares with a net resource transfer from the World Bank Group of
about $15 million per annum and a total net resource transfer of around
$90 million per annum. The scope for cutting back on domestic oil
consumption without reducing production is very limited. The
combined effect of the oil price rise, the expected large food
import requirement for the current year (partially due to the drought
in the north of the country) and other relative price changes is
expected to cause a significant drop in reserves during 1974.
6.        It seems likely that special capital assistance will be
required to prevent an acute foreign exchange crisis in 1975. At



-3-
the invitation of the Government, a Bank mission has recently
participated in a Presidential task force which assessed the effects
of the oil crisis on Tanzania's balance of payments and which
recommended an action program including a shift in investment
priorities to more directly productive projects in agriculture
and industry. Several bilateral donors, including Sweden, Canada,
the Federal Republic of Germany and Yugoslavia, have already
responded by increasing their aid commitments to Tanzania, but
this may not be enough to meet the expected crisis during the
next pew years. So far, Tanzania has not drawn on any of the IMF
credit facilities, but this may soon become necessary. On June 27,
1974 the Government approached the Bank Group for a program loan
to assist in the financing of a program of structural economic
adjustments forming part of the Government's medium and longer
term response to the oil crisis and several other significant
recent relative price shifts. We are presently considering this
application; an appraisal mission is due to leave shortly.
7.        Until the recent completion of the Tanzanian portion
of the Tan-Zam railway financed by the People's Republic of China,
the country had been for a number of years Tanzania's principal
source of foreign aid disbursements. A new $75 million bilateral
aid agreement with China for the development of a Tanzanian iron
and steel industry was signed earlier this year but it is likely
to take some years before this major new commitment will begin to
be disbursed as the iron and steel project is understood to be
still in an early stage of preparation. Meanwhile, Sweden has
become Tanzania's principal source of aid disbursements. After
a pause of several years, the United Kingdom has recently resumed
capital aid to Tanzania with an initial grant and a credit (together
about $24 million) for rural development. In terms of outstanding
commitments, the Bank Group is Tanzania's largest creditor followed
by Sweden, Norway, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and the Federal
Republic of Germany. Including a notional one-third share of the
debt of the East African Community Oorporations, the IBRD is
presently holding 14 percent of Tanzania's outstanding external
debt and IDA 16 percentk; the IBRD share is expected to rise to
about 20 percent in the next five years, and the IDA share to
remain about the same. The share of debt service payments to the
Bank is at present about 10 percent of total debt service payments;
the corresponding share for IDA is about 2 percent. These two
figures are projected to rise to about 20 percent and 3 percent,
respectively, by 1980. Most capital aid to Tanzania is made
availab'le on very favorable terms, and a declining share of the
total is tied to procurement in the donor country.   Supplier's
credits have been kept to the minaimum.  In addition to seeking as
favorable a blend as poSsiTle and the minimum of tying, the Govern-
ment has attempted to secure donors' agreement to simplify the
procedures associated wi-c-f the use of cormitted aid. For example,
Swedish assistance is now given within the terms of a frame agree-
ment, which allows the Ciovernment to set its own priorities in the use



of SIDA funds and allows considerable flexibility in the switching
of such finance between the various projects and programs. The
overall deot service ratio has declined in recent years owing to
buoyant export earnings; it is currently about five or six percent
and is not expected to rise signiiicantly in the medium-term. In
view of this low debt service ratio there is scope for a modest amount
of lending to Tanzania on conventional terms, particularly if such
lending is for export promoting or import substituting activities.
8.        Tanzania!s high rate of investment during the last five
years has not been reflected in high growth in production -- at
least not as yet -- partly because there was a heavy bias towards
social and economic infrastructure with long gestation periods. A
substantial proportion of total investment has been undertaken to
provide a viable alternative outlet to the sea to neighboring land-
locked Zambia after Southern Rhodesia's ULilateral Declaration of
Independence in 1965. Though basically designed to carry Zambian
transit traffic, these investments will help to stimulate agricultural
and industrial development in southern and western Tanzania.   The
budgetary position which has been adversely affected by sluggish
economic growth in recent years coupled with high levels of
development and recurrent expenditure,  remains tight.   In view
of the already high marginal savings rate, the scope for additional
taxation is limited. Even with a decline in the rate of investment,
in the face of escalating fuel prices Tanzania will still require
a continued capital inflow in excess of the foreign exchange
component of high priority projects if it is to achieve its
development targets. Financing of some local expenditures will
therefore be justilied.
9.        Financial discipline in the Regions, Central Government
Ministries, and many state corporations remains a problem, probably
because scarce accounting and auditing skills are now even more
thinly spread. There is a general serious shortage of many pro-
fessional skills. The situation has been aggravated by the departure
of many Asians and the Government's reluctance to recruit abroad.
However, this reiuctance is now diminishing as part of an effort to
accelerate project preparation and implementation.
10.       President Nyerere announced in October 1973 that the Govern-
ment had decided to move the capital of Tanzania from Dar es Salaam
to Dodoma. By moving tne capital city to the center of the country
and so closer to the bulk of the rural population, it is expected that
the Government will become more responsive to the needs of the rural
sector.  The Government presently plans to make the move over a ten-
year period. No accurate estimates oI the total costs involved are
yet available) but in view of the scarcity of investment resources in
Tanzania, it is likely th.at the transfer of the capital wflll take
much longer than planned.  in addition, the numboer of Government offices



moved may be fewer than is presently envisaged.
11.       The administrative structure and many of the functions of
Government were decentralized to the Regions in July 1972. This too was
done to make the Government more responsive to the needs of rural
development. It is still far too early to assess the success of this
decentralization. As expected, problems of coordination between the
center and the Regions have occurred, and the transfer of high-
ranking officials from Dar es Salaam to the rural areas has had its
inevitable, but one hopes only short-term, effect on the smooth
functioning of Central Government. Some dislocation in project
implementation has also been experienced. In some Regions the new
Government structure is already showing its potential to be more
responsive and relevant to the needs of the rural sector. It has
become apparent that the severe shortage of regional technical
expertise will inhibit the ability of the new decentralized authorities
to plan and execute rural projects; progress in regional development
will, therefore, inevitably be patchy, reflecting the local availability
of the required expertise.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
12.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962. Beginning
with an IDA credit for education in 1963, 16 credits and four Bank
loans amounting to $206.6 million have so far been approved for
Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of nine loans,
totalling $229.8 million which have been extended for the development
of common services operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda
through their association in the East African Community. The only
IFC investment in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million, was made
in the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964.  In 1969, IFC and
other investors sold their interest in the Company to the Government
(para.35 below). Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans
and IDA credits in Tanzania and the East African Community Organiza-
tions as of June 30, 1974 and notes on the execution of ongoing projectso
13.       Our lending program, reflecting the emphasis the Tanzanian
Government is placing on agricultural development, has increasingly
focused on directly productive activities in the rural sector. Up to
the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans and credits have been made for
infrastructure. All but one of the loans to the East African Community
Organizations, of wnich Tanzania is a beneficiary and co-guarantor,



-6-
have been extended for improvements in transportation and communications.
However, the approval by the Executive Directors of the Flue-Cured
Tobacco Project (Credit No. 217-TA), in October 1970 opened a new
phase in our lending for more directly productive activities. The
Smallholder Tea Development Project (Credit No. 287-TA) and a Second
Livestock Project (Credit No. 382-TA) were approved in March 1972 and
in April 1973, respectively. A Cotton Development Project (Credit
No. 454-TA) and a Cashewnut Development Project were approved earlier
this year. The Kigoma Integrated Rural Development Project is
scheduled for Board consideration on August 6, 1974. Preparation for
a proposed dairy project, a second rural development project and a
forestry project are underway. Possibilities for developing sisal
and soya bean development projects are currently being explored.
14.       Tanzania is developing an institutional structure, stressing
greater regionalization and development of ujamaa villages, designed
to promote and respond to development initiatives. These institutions
are still in their formative stages, and related organizational and
staffing difficulties have sometimes resulted in the project delays
referred to in Annex II. Tanzania's education and training programs
are expected to solve the manpower problem in the longer run, but
meanwhile there will continue to be a need for technical assistance
in planning and implementation if the difficulties in executing
projects are to be overcome. The Government has taken steps to speed
up recruitment of needed expatriate technical expertise and instituted
a high level monthly review for all externally aided projects. In
addition, we hope to intensify, through our supervision missions,
assistance in project implementation. As a result of these efforts,
it is expected that project implementation should now improve.
15.       Our Regional Mission in East Africa was involved in the
preparation of six projects in the agricultural sector. Our capacity
to provide such assistance has proved to be particularly valuable in
a country where project preparation capacity is, and for some time
will be, limited. We are also exploring with the Government how
assistance of this kind can be strengthened and best fitted to Tanzania.
Through participation in their projects we have supported Tanzania's
new development institutions at an early stage. Our supervision of
the projects has resulted in bringing to light, earlier than might
have happened otherwise, that some of these institutions are facing
significant difficulty in executing the projects they have undertaken.
Because of our involvement, we have been able to help the Government
in its consideration of how to overcome this problem whose solution
is fundamental to rapid development.



-7-
16.       The urban Sites and Services Project (Credit No. 495 TA)
approved in July 1974 marked the Bank Group's first lending to
Tanzania for urban development. The Credit for the Tanzania
Investment Bank (Credit No. 460 TA) approved in February 1974 was
the Bank Group's first lending in the industrial sector in Tanzania.
Proposed projects for textile development and the development of an
industrial estate are presently under preparation. Other projects
outside the agricultural sector include a proposed highway maintenance
project scheduled for Board consideration on August 6, 1974. A water
supply project is under preparation. In view of the overall balance
of payments and related difficulties presently being faced by
Tanzania (paras. 5, 7 and 8 above) consideration is being given to
a program loan.
17.       Although no projects are planned in the near future for
the Common Services Organizations of the East African Community,
the Bank, through its supervision of ongoing operations, is
continually reviewing possible further assistance to the Community
Corporations for the further development of common services.
Recently, however, three of the Cammunity Corporations have been
delinquent in making debt service payments to the Bank. The East
African Harbours Corporation (EAHC) has not met payments amounting
to $459,215 due on June 15 under Loan No. 638 EA, the East African
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (EAPTC) payments amounting
to $371,250 due on June 15 under Loan No. 675 EA and $260,130 due
on July 1 under Loan 914 EA, and the East African Railways
Corporation (EARC) payment amounting to $1,037,059 due on July 15
under Loan No. 110 EA. The Railways have for some time now been
facing financial and operational problems which include an inadequate
tariff structure, inefficient use of rolling stock and differences
between the Partner States on how the railways should be managed.
In the case of EAPTC and EAHC, the recent delinquency is primarily
due to problems between the Partner States which had prevented the
two Corporations from transferring surplus funds earned in one
country to the corporate headquarters located in another country.
Except for this difficulty, both Corporations are financially sound
and do not lack the domestic resources to meet their debt service
obligations to the Bank.
18.       The Bank has pressed all tihree Corporations and the Partner
States for payment of their obligations.   The Partner States are vevy
much alive to these problems and the Finance Ministers of the three
Partner States met on July 19, 1974 to discuss these matters. The



-0-
Bank has been informed by the Minister of Finance of Kenya that
decisions were taken to allow immediate payment of debt service
dues under Loans 638 EA, 675 EA and 914 EA, as well as to provide
funds to meet the cash requirements of the Railways including
its debt service payments. In addition, a high level meeting
attended by the Ministers of Finance and Communications of the
Partner States and the Community and by senior representatives of
the Bank was held in Nairobi on July 29, 1974. At this meeting,
the immediate and longer term problems of the Railways and the
other Community Corporations was discussed and agreement   was
reached on a number of important steps towards their resolution.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
19.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest
single sector in the Tanzanian economy. Roughly 40 percent of GDP
is derived from the sectcr of which 50 percent constitutes subsistence
production. Agricultural exports, which account for 80 percent of
total exports, include mainly sisal, cotton, cashew and coffee. About
9h percent of the population live in rural areas, usually in small
isolated communities and 90 percent of the economically active people
are engaged in agriculture.
20.       Most production is from smallholdings using family labor.
Large-scale agriculture is represented by a small number of private
estates and some state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea and wheat,
and state farms, mainly producing wheat, rice, sisal and livestock.
Estate production has diminished in importance and the state farm
program remains small. Tanzania's national herd, the second largest
in Africa, is grazed extensively over the 40 percent of the country
which is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is largely managed
along traditional lines.  There is limited use of oxen for cultivation,
mainly in the western cotton areas.   In years of normal rainfall,
Tanzania is largely se_f-sufficient in staples, but about 9 percent
of total imports in 197, were foods among which maize was a major



-9-
item because of a shortfall in local production caused by sub-normal
rainfall in the north of the country. Food imports in 1974 are
expected to rise to over 20 percent of total imports owing to a
continuation of drought conditions during the early part of the year.
Agricultural Development Strategy
21.       The Government recognizes that agriculture will continue to
be the main source of employment for a long time and has been trying
to devise a strategy which will bring about improvement in output,
incomes, and the living conditions of the agricultural population.
The policy for agricultural and rural development which has emerged
from these deliberations has been adopted as a central part of
Tanzania's second Five-Year Plan.
22.       The major aim of the Plan is to make significant progress
towards socialist organization of rural activity, based on ujamaa
cooperatives and maximization of the use of labor. State farms fill
a need for larger scale production units, but the approach to mechaniza-
tion is to be cautious and in general based on proven viability. A
similar caution is expressed toward irrigation development. Agri-
cultural production is to be increased within a framework of crop
priorities based on production possibilities, market prospects, and a
desire for increased self-sufficiency. High priority is given to
raising nutritional standards in the country, and to the expansion
of selected export activities including cotton, livestock, flue-cured
tobacco, and cashewnuts, all of which are already being assisted
by the Bank Group. A vigorous policy for the development of
vertically integrated single crop authorities, dealing with all aspects
of production, processing and marketing, is being pursued with
cooperatives playing a central role.
23.       Several other types of farming and commodities also have
scope for expansion. These include dairying, horticultural production,
pyrethrum, oilseeds and forestry products. Projects designed to
develop some of these are in various stages of preparation.
24.       Tanzania has had some success in formulating and implementing
the single crop development programs mentioned in paragraphs 20 and
21 above. However, they have typically involved relatively high cost
per farmer, and have affected only a small proportion of the rural
population even when developed along labor intensive lines. Tanzania
has recognized these shortcomings and is attempting to design and plan
broader based rural development projects. Our Regional Mission in
Eastern Africa has been assisting the Government in this effort and
helped to design and prepare such a project in Kigoma region in



-10-
western Tanzania. This region has considerable potential but has so
far been bypassed by more traditional development programs.
25.       The Government of Tanzania uses price regulation both as
an allocation mechanism and as an instrument to achieve its welfare
goals. However, some relative prices, particularly in the agricultural
sector have been kept too low and distortions in the market have
occurred. In some cases, supply has been depressed and farmers have
been reluactant to invest in particular activities. The Government
has become increasingly aware of these issues and recently significantly
increased some producer prices (on beef, wheat and maize, for example)
to stimulate production.
26.       As Bank Group involvement in the agricultural sector has
grown, Bank staff have participated in a continuing dialogue with the
Tanzanian Government over agricultural potentialities, priorities,
and policies. As part of this effort, an agriculture sector
survey mission visited Tanzania in October 1973 and its report is
expected to be finalized next month for distribution in September.
Technical Services
27.       Research presently being carried out in Tanzania is
generally of a good standard although some strengthening in particular
areas is needed. However, there is a gap between research and its
application at farm level. About 2,500 field staff in Tanzania are
engaged in field work associated with crop production. Owing to its
inadequate dissemination of new techniques, limited material, poor
logistic support and the fact that staff have been spread too thinly,
the extension services have been rather ineffective in introducing
improved techniques to farmers except when organized along project
lines. In designing new programs, care is now being taken that
these shortfalls of the past will be avoided.
he Sugar Industry
General
28 .      Tanzania's sugar is grown on four estates which are all small1
by international standards. The estates are located near Moshi in the
north of the country, at Kagera which is west of Lake Victoria and
at Mtibwa and Kilombero in Morogoro region in east central Tanzania.
Production of these estates amounts to nearly 90,000 metric tons per
annum which is close to their full capacity.



-11-
29.       Up to 1968, Tanzania had bceen self-sufficient in sugar; however,
consumption, which is still onily 10 kg per liead a year compared to 16.6 kg
for Kenya and ove3r 50 kg for the USA, has increased rapidly in recent ye,trs.
As a result of the_e increases in denand, Tanzania is currently importing
about 50,000 metr-:.c tons a year or 37 percent of domestic consumption.
These deman-d trends, which are in part attributed- to income growth, a more
equivable income distribution, urbanization and increased industrial use are
expected to continue, althoagh at a reduced rate, for the foreseeable future.
Devulopment Strategy
30.       In keeping with the country's overall policy of self-re'.iance,
Tanzania ains to regain and subsequently maintain self-sufficiency in sugar
pro2uction.  The Government is planning to reach thi.s target by 1)81 b-y im-
ple:.enting expansion plans for Kilombero, Kagera and Y'tibwa sugar estates.
While ti-ese prod'uction targets are to be met primarily by the exparnsion of
estate production, it is the Covernment's policy to encourage the dsevelopment
of outgrowers, usually in the form of ujamaa cooper-atives or District Devl.op-
ment Corporations (enterprises owned and operated '-y distr-ict administrations).
Howev-r, the policy in this regard is pragmatic.   If, in practice, the promo-
tion of such small-scaLe ente-rprises wc,uld delay sugar expansion plans for
individual estates, and hence prolong the :Leed to '.mport sugar, then greater
e.!iphasis is givein to the estates themselves.
Sugar Devulopment Corporation (SDC)
31.       In order to give added impetus to the Goverrnment's expansion plans
for the sector, a Sugar Development Corporation (SDC), wi.th powers to develop
the sugar industry, to engage in sugar growing, prDcessing and marketing; and
tc manage the affairs of its subsidiar-y sugar companies in which it holds a
controlling interest, was established in February 1974.   Equity holdings pre-
v..ously held by t-e Nati-onal Food and Agriculture Corporation in the :Kiombero
Sugar Compaoy (KSC), M4tibwa and :Kager- estates have 'seen transferred to t'ne
new Corporation.  Initially SDC is expeoted to concentrate its efforts on
developing a-nd implementing sugar production devclopmerit plans.  It is expected
that 6sL will eventually take over the functions of the National Sugar
Board which is responsible for controlling and regulating the -rod;3ction and
markeilng of sugar in the mainland and for handling imports.
Price Policy
32.       Sugar price^- are !rontrolled by the Gover.ment at the factory, w'.ole-
sale and r-tall levels.  Ex-factory prices are assessed for individu-: plants
and are ')ased on the need. of each enterprise to cover all operating costs,
service a.ll debt and earri a reasonable return on investment.  Although the
exact deteruination of' the ex-factory iprice h_s caused difficultie: in the
past, tho.t overime:t's position in this regard is much more flexible and
pragmatic thai it was at the time IFC and other invest<,r. relinquishe_ their
holdings in fSC (para. 35 below) . Uniform wholesa.Le a.nd re--tail prices a-re
set for '32 depots although the retail selling price may be ad`uste' for
transpor, costs 'ro:s the neares;t de,.t. The presen-t reta,sl price of



-12-
TSh 3.0/kg (US$0.42) is in line with international prices and involves no
element of subsidy. It covers all costs of domestic production, meets the
full cost of imports and allows for a reserve for future development to be
built up.
Sugar Research
33.       Sugar research in East Africa is coordinated by the East Africa
Agriculture and Forestry Research Organization (EAAFRO). The main EAAFRO
sugar research station, responsible for the introduction of foreign varieties
and breeding, is at Kibaha in Tanzania. National research is the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of Agriculture but only limited selection and
variety trial work has been carried out on its research station at Katrin.
Most essential research has been carried out on sugar estates. There is a
need to improve overall coordination.
Kilombero Sugar Company (KSC)
34.       The Kilombero Sugar estate is located in the Kilombero Valley, in
Kilosa District, Morogoro Region (see map). It is linked to Dar es Salaam
by railway and an all weather road. The estate, which is the newest of
Tanzania's sugar enterprises, began production in 1962. It is now operating
at full capacity and producing about 43,000 metric tons of sugar per year.
Some 33 percent (140,000 tons) of the cane is provided by outgrowers.
35.       IFC made two investments in KSC which supported the original
development of the estate and factory of 20,000 tons and its later expansion
to 31,500 tons (subsequent developments have raised its capacity to 43,000
tons). The first investment, approved in February 1960, and the second
approved in March 1964 totalled the equivalent of $4.7 million or 36 percent
of the Company's capital. IFC's principal investment partners were the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) and the Netherlands Overseas
Finance Corporation (NOFC). The principal investors sold their interest in
the Company to the Tanzanian Government in early 1969. This development
followed a decision by the Government to reduce the assured ex-factory price
of sugar from a level which it regarded as including a subsidy to KSC.
The investors, however, notified the Government that, in their view, the
Company could not be viable at the revised sugar price and felt that the
higher price was a fair price for an efficient operation. The Government
indicated that it would be receptive to an offer by the investors to sell
their interests to the Government and mutually acceptable terms of sale
were negotiated and agreements concluded.
36.       The Company in fact experienced considerable problems in its
development and earned a profit in only two of the first seven years in
operation. A previously unknown cane disorder "yellow wilt" had depressed
cane yields and was only eradicated after drainage improvements were
affected and new cane varieties introduced. On the management side, poor
cost control and inadequate tractor maintenance were also problems.
However, following the conclusion of a management agency agreement with
HVA International (a Netherlands company with considerable experience
in sugar production in developing countries) in 1965 these difficulties
have been overcome.   Except 'or a set-back in 1972, when a newly



-13-
installed diffuser in the factory led to excessive down-time, KSC's
operations have been reasonably efficient.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       An Appraisal Report entitled "Kilombero Sugar Project - Tanzania"
(No. 466a-TA) is being distributed separately. A Loan/Credit and Project
Summary is provided as Annex III to this Report.
38.       The project, prepared with the help of HVA International and the
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa, was appraised in the field in November/
December 1973. Negotiations for the proposed loan and credit were held in
Washington in June 1974. The Tanzanian delegation was headed by Mr. R.
Korosso, Director of External Finance, Ministry of Finance.
39.       The proposed project would be in two parts. Part I would support
the development of a new sugar estate and outgrowers land adjacent to the
existing sugar estate (see map), and Part II would support the construction
of a new factory and related facilities. The project would, by 1982, in-
crease KSC's annual production of refined sugar by 45,000 metric tons.
Part I of the project would comprise the development of a partly irrigated
7,300 acres sugar estate, the development of 4,600 acres of rainfed lands
for outgrowers, and the provision of staff housing, water supply, power
transmission equipment, community facilities including a school and health
facilities, a rail link and training and research. In addition, a country-
wide sugar survey to identify and prepare future projects would also be
supported. Part II of the project would include the erection of a sugar
factory and ancillary facilities capable of handling 2,400 metric tons of
cane per day and the provision of supervision for its construction. Part I
would be financed by the Bank/IDA and Part II by Dutch-Danish bilateral
assistance.
Costs
40.       The total cost of the project, including estimated duties and taxes
of less than US$200,000, is estimated at US$55.8 million. Part I of the
project is estimated to cost US$23 million; all land development and asso-
ciated costs, excluding contingencies, are expected to total $9.l4 million,
other civil works, and related equipment excluding contingencies, are
expected to total $3.3 million, the sugar survey, research and training are
expected to amount to $1.2 million excluding contingencies. Price contin-
gencies of $7.5 million and physical contingencies of $1.6 million have
been included in the cost estimates. The large component for price escalation
is explained by the fact that it is thought prudent to allow for cumulative



-14-
price increases averaging about 12 percent per annum over the project
period and because project investments for Part I of the project would
be phased over the whole development period rather than being concen-
trated in the early years. For Part II of the project, costs of the
factory and ancillary buildings are expected to total $31.8 million
equivalent and the contract for the supervision of construction is
expected to be about $1.0 million equivalent. The cost of the factory
includes an allowance of US$300,000 for contingencies for freight and
insurance; no other contingencies are included as, with the exception
of these items, the contract for the factory, which has already been
awarded, has a fixed price (para 47 below).
Financing Plan
41.       External sources would finance the estimated foreign exchange
costs of $43.7 million (78 percent) of the project as well as $2.6
million equivalent of local costs (5 percent of total costs). The
Government and KSC would contribute an estimated $9.5 million (17 per-
cent of total costs) towards the local costs of the project. Bank Group
funds would finance only Part I of the project. The proposed IDA credit
of $9.0 million and Bank loan of $9.0 million would finance the total
estimated foreign exchange costs of $15.4 million (67 percent of the
cost of Part I) as well as $2.6 million equivalent of local costs (11
percent of the cost of Part I) of the project. The foreign costs of
Part II of the project (83 percent of the cost of Part II) will be
supported by a Dutch contribution of f. 31 million ($11.0 million) and a Danish
contribution of DKr 103 million ($17.3 million). Receipt by the Bank of
official confirmation of these commitments is a condition of loan and
credit effectiveness. The Dutch finance is being made available to
Tanzania on IDA terms. The Danish contribution represents DKr 25 million
of the proceeds of a loan to Tanzania of DKr 40 million made in 1971, a
loan of DKr 35 million made in March 1974 and part of the proceeds of a
loan of DKr 60 million to be made later. The first loan was made for 25
years including seven years grace and bears no interest; the subsequent
loans have been made for 35 years including 10 years grace and likewise
bear no interest.
42.       Approximately $17.7 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan
and credit would be onlent to the Kilombero Sugar Company by the Government
of Tanzania at 9 percent per annum for 25 years including a five year grace
period. This rate reflects the commercial cost of long-term capital for the
agro-industrial sector in Tanzania. The conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and KSC would be a condition of credit and
loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section
5.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement). The remaining $300,000 of the
loan and credit would be made available by the Government to the Sugar



-15-
Development Corporation in the form of a grant for the purposes of
conducting the sugar survey (para 39). In order to ensure a sound
financial structure for KSC, not less than 30 percent and not more than
50 percent of the total finance provided for the project from all sources
would be passed on to KSC in the form of equity (Section 3.04(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement) to be held by the Sugar Development
Corporation.
Organization and Execution
43.       The Kilombero Sugar Company would be the principal project
executing agency. The new factory and estate would be operated as
an integral part of KSC with senior administrative factory and agricul-
tural posts being common to both factories and estates. The expansion
of KSC resulting from the project would require the creation of about
26 new management posts of which 12 are initially expected to be
filled by expatriates. The Kilombero Sugar Company is expected to
renew its management contract with HVA International in the near future.
The conclusion of an agreement with managing agents would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan and credit (Section
6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 5.01(d) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Despite the training programs which will be
supported by the project, expatriate assistance to KSC will be required
for some considerable time. KSC would therefore seek the agreement of the
Bank Group to the terms and conditions of any new managing agency agreement
when the agreement currently being negotiated expires (expected to be in
1977) (Section 3.05(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
44.       In addition to being responsible for the estate development
program, KSC's Agricultural Services Division would also supervise
outgrowers' activities. Outgrowers would include the Kilosa District
Development Corporation, a commercial enterprise owned and operated
by Kilosa District, three ujamaa villages, two estates and about
120 smallholders. Owing to uncertainties concerning the rate of
outgrower recruitment, and in order that any such recruitment delays
should not adversely affect supplies of cane available to the factory,
KSC would be responsible for initial development of all land (estate and
outgrowers) at least up to the first planting. KSC would continue to
operate the land designated for outgrowers until such outgrowers are ready
to take over the land (about 40 percent of the total). The full cost of
development, including interest, and subsequent services for outgrowers
carried out by KSC would be recovered by the Kilombero Sugar Company
(Section 3.06(a) of the draft Project Agreement). The larger outgrowers
are expected to operate their own cane transport services; KSC would
provide these services at cost to the other outgrowers. In order to assure



adequate production incentives to outgrowers, KSC has agreed to adjust
the price paid to outgrowers from time to time to maintain such
incentives (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Project Agreement). The
survey which would identify possible future sugar development projects and
prepare selected feasibility studies would be carried out by consultants
employed by the Tanzania Sugar Development Corporation.
Training and Research
45.       In order to ensure the long-term sound operation of the
project and to help provide for the eventual localization of all
staff operating in KSC, the present training program would be
considerably upgraded under the project. On-the-job training supplemented
by compulsory work time classes would be instituted for field and factory
staff. In addition, support for training of senior and potential senior
staff both in Tanzania and overseas would be provided. A full-time
trainer, appointed after consultation with the Bank Group, would be
recruited (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement). He would
prepare training curricula and supervise senior and supervisory staff
responsible for training. In order that KSC can continue to improve
its agricultural performance, provision for two additional qualified
agronomists and supporting staff and equipment has been included in the
proposed project.
Procurement
46.       For Part I of the project, the procurement arrangements
would be in accordance with the following procedures. Vehicles and
related equipment for KSC to carry out estate development and cons-
truction of the estate roads and the railbed, vehicles for cane
transport and administrative services, irrigation equipment, water
supply equipment and power transmission equipment totalling $7.4
million (excluding contingencies) would be by international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. In evaluating bids,
local manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent
or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is the lower. Construc-
tion of offices, staff houses and other civil works totalling $2.3
million, would be carried out by contractors following international
competitive bidding. However, in order to avoid unnecessary delays,
contracts and items of equipment not suitable for bulk procurement
would be purchased in accordance with the Government's normal procure-
ment procedures in cases where such contracts or items are worth less
than US$30,000 (para A3 of the Schedule to the draft Project Agreement).
Water supply and power transmission equipment is expected to be installed
by KSCe In evaluating bids, local civil works contractors would be
allowed a 7-1/2 percent preference (para Cl of the Schedule to the draft
Project Agreement). The railway line would be procured and laid by East



-17-
African Railways (EARC). EARC is the only supplier of these services in
East Africa and the contract is too small to be attractive to international
bidders. Consultants to carry out the sugar development survey (para 39
above) would be appointed in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
47.       Under Part II of the project, the factory and ancillary
facilities ($31.8 million) would be provided under a turnkey contract
signed on April 5, 1974 between the Kilombero Sugar Company and a
consortium of Dutch and Danish manufacturers. Supervision of cons-
truction ($1.0 million) would be carried out by HVA International
under a separate contract with KSC.
Disbursements
48.       A schedule of estimated disbursements from the proposed Bank
loan and IDA credit is included in Annex III. The IDA credit would
be disbursed first. The Bank Group would cover 100 percent of foreign
expenditures or 85 percent of local expenditures for land clearing and
preparation equipment, other tractors, trailers and vehicles, irrigation,
potable water supply equipment, power transmission equipment, furniture
and equipment for non-factory buildings. It would cover 75 percent of ex-
penditures for the civil works including land preparation and 100 percent
of foreign expenditures or 75 percent of local expenditures for research
and training personnel, training and consulting services for the sugar
survey. In order not to delay the start-up of the factory, preliminary
work on land clearing and development, access roads, railbed preparation
and site clearing has already begun. To help finance these costs, up
to $700,000 of eligible expenditures incurred since May 1974, would
be financed retroactively (para 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
49.       Proceeds of the Dutch and Danish loans for Part II of the
project would be disbursed in accordance with the contract signed
for the construction of these works (para 47 above).
Prices
50.       As already mentioned, the present retail price of sugar
in Tanzania of $0.42 per kilo is in line with world prices. To
ensure that future distortions do not occur and to avoid undue pressure
on the balance of payments, the Government has agreed to review retail
prices regularly in the light of such factors as production costs and
import prices (Section 3.05(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).



-18-
To ensure that the Kilombero Sugar Company can continue to operate as
a viable entity and along commercial lines, the Government has agreed
that it would set the controlled ex-factory price (para. 32 above)
at a level sufficient to enable the Company, operating at a reasonable
level of efficiency,to earn a return of about 9 percent per annum on
all capital employed to reflect the economic cost of that capital
(Section 3.05(a), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits
51.       The project would provide at full development, expected to
be in 1980, an additional 45,000 metric tons of refined sugar per
year. The project, by substituting for imports, would provide an
annual net foreign exchange benefit to Tanzania of almost US$14.0
million. The economic rate of return is estimated at 13 percent over
20 years. Outgrower ujamaa farm families would earn an average annual
net farm income, including subsistence, of around US$275 from the
second year and around US$725 after about six years when the full
development costs are paid off. This compares to the current average
agricultural family income, including subsistence, of about US$215
in Tanzania. From 1978/79 on the Government's net cash inflow from
the project would amount to over US$5 million per year. The health
and educational facilities to be constructed on the estate would
provide additional benefits to employees and their families. The
results of the sugar survey are expected to establish a sound basis
for the further development of Tanzania's sugar industry in the 1980s.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of
Tanzania and the Bank, the draft Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Bank, the Association and Kilombero Sugar Company, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, the Report d the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association and the text of a resolution approving the proposed
loan and credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



-19-
53.       The conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and KSC, a new managing agency agreement for KSC, and
official confirmation of firm Dutch and Danish Government commitments
to provide the equivalent of US$11.0 million and US$17.3 million,
respectively, for the financing of Part II of the project would be
conditions of credit and loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the Loan
Agreement and Section 5.01(b), (c), and (d) of the Credit Agreement).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECCMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan and proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
July 31, 1974






AM=E I
Page I of 3 pages
COUNTRY DATA - TANZANIA
AREA                                    P~~~~~~~~~~OPULATION                           DENITY
94.5,007   kmn 7                                          T6    t l;ion (mid-1071)                          lb    Per Ion 
14V Per ko,Zof arable land
SOCIAL !VDICATORS
Reference Countries
Tanzania                                Niqa r1eria   [J.K.
ON? PER CAPITA US$ (ATLAS BASIS) /I                                               Ih)                iSO          120         2,2,0)
IENSRAP1IIC
Crude biryth rate (per thousand)                                   46IL          1                  85
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                     25           21                VI            21            33
Infant mortality rate (per thousan.d live births)                 225         160-165/.                     150-1 75           1)    /
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                    38  /a       01                49            37            72
Gross reproduction rate /2                                           .3.2                           3.3           3.3           1.3
Population growth ratea                                              2.2          2./               3.3           2.5           O. 6
Population growth rAte - rban                                       ..7                             6' /ea-!      5             0.5
Age structure (percenit)                                            12  '
0-lb                                                             h2//1             ~                          '.5           21,
15-61                                                             16      O    53                51            53           6,3
65 and over                                                        27?     b    3                 2             2            13
De'vendancy ratio /,                                                 0      I7 ~  1.lL&             1.2/h         1.2           0. 9
Ulrban population as percent of total                               1.6               /c             9 /L-f     23             3
Family planning:   No.of acceptors cumulative (thous.               . 
No. of ..aers (% of carried woman)               *...2.2
Total labor force (thousands)                                       ..        5,780              5,0/iD  Id h 241,050      2,1
Percentage employed in agriculture                                ..            9                 go3 _         0
Percentage unemployed
INCOM4E DISTRIBUTION
Percent _of nationaI income received by highest 5%......
Percent of national Income received by highest 20%                  . 
Percent of national inicome received by lowest 20%                  .             ..
Prerent of nationa1 tncome recoitv,d by lc.,est 10%...
M~STRIBUTION OF IAND 0SUiIv,HIP
% ownaed by top 2.0% Ti
% owned by erialleut- I I or owners
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
vz   _5np_e_r -physician                                  20,000  /o    21,5/0  /b        12,350  /d    2a,030  /i       toO  /c
Population per nursing person                                       ..         2 980  7~A        3,050  73    2,530  A~'      290
Population per hospital bed                                        530  /u       780  __           730  7c    1,7 at          105   /d
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirements /5                   65  /k        69                90            90          120
Per capita protein supply, total (gramls per day7L6                 42  7         u3                68            59           So1
Of whichi, animal and pulse                                       22  7~        23                29           14            58
Death rate 1-b years /7                                             .....                                         .0.9
EDUCATION 
Adjusted /8 primnary school enrollment ratio                        25            3/                60I           3i            93  /d
Adjustedl E  secondary school enrollment ratio                       2             2                 8             458 77d
Years of schooling provided, first and gecond level                 13            13                13            114           I.,
Vocational enrollment as % of sac, school enrollment                22             6                 2            10  /1         5  Ic
Adult literacy rate %                                               ....30                               .        *             97  7d-
HOYUSING
Ave-rage No. of persons per room (urban)                             1.8/c         ..                                            0.6/n
Percent of occupied units without piped water                       ..20              /m
Access to electricity (as % of total PoPulation)                     ..3                            ..8
Percent of rural populaticn connected to electricity....
CONSUJ)IION
Radio receivers per 1000 population                                  2            11                18  Id        23           32~  /4
Passenger cars per 1000 populiation                                 ..2               lb d           9             1.2         215-
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                               14   /b       2 9  __            5            19  /d     u,291  /d
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                               0.07b         0.17              0.1           0.1          28
Notes:   Figures refer either to the lat eat periods or to              account of environmental temperature, body weighta,an
the latest years. Latest periods refer in principle to                  distribution by age WAy max of nationAl populations.
the years 1956-60 or 1966-7t1; the latest years in prin-            /6protein standards (requirements) for all countries as estab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970. Only aignificantly different                    lished by USDA Eooncumic Research Service provide for a minli-mum
periods or years are footnoted separately,                              allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, andi 20 grass of
The Per Cspita (RIP estimates for years other than 1960             animal aned pulse protein, Of which 10 grams should be animal
is at market prices, calculated by the same conversion              protein.  These standards are somewhat lower~ than those of 75
technique as the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                             grames of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein aes an
L2  Average number of daughters per wcsnan or reproductive              average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
age.                                                                Survey.
Z2  Population growth rates are fbr the decades ending in           /7 Scene studies have suggested that crude death rates of children
1960 and 1970.                                                      ages 1 through b may be used as a first approximation index of
A Ratio of under 15 and 65 aned ovar age brackets to                  malnutrition.
those in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 61.             /8  Percentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age
IkFAO reference standar-ds represent physiologloal re-                us defined for each ocoun,try.
quiraments for normal activity and health, taking
/a  1951;~    Ic  Tanganyika only:       ~Ic 91%/    /4   19(o9:   Is   1 /2 -09    If  Over 2,000 population;      I     aioc
populatio_nurader 15 and 65 an,d over Li total labor force;      /h  Lao.r forc~e in age bracket 15-9;      /I   Ratio of
popilation under 15 andI 65 and over age bracket.. to those in 17-6b Age bracket;        9   16;      /k    5-63;      /I  Data
cover only 9out of 12 staten;       I'll  Ur~a,' -,lyp  /n  196:, arL,a,, and rural;   I-51 1958, Zanziiar only;   In _rcluding
forctat and' pastures.
997 Dece,,ner 1, 1913



ANNE I
1Y!~NOMIC DEVEWPI0'T DATA                                                Pg      :     ae
(Amounts in millionqs of7U.S.. dollars)
Actual      _                      ctno(            1964-   1065 -    1967 -    19 73 -   17       91      17
197C      17 1        7'G7      074       j7     1.076      1,969    1227     1 97 2    1976      197       91     297
NATIONAL A7CO1UN'E -S
5-er Average at Ir67- 1969 Prc:    I,   ceg      ae        Averag_, Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of G1)Y
Grunt~ Pomestis Product           1215.l   13~75.4   I 342. 7    1494.17   1 -42*IC 1637.!       6.1      6.8      4.9       4.5    100       I01.    201
S4anno from Terms, of Trade   )    -0.2     -10.8     -1.5.4      -17.3    -25.1    -33.0
C~re-r, Dnmestic income           1213.9   126',..6  1377.3      1477.4   15i6.6   1599.)        5.0     65.6      4.5       4.1    100,-     100_    100o
Import (mci. BYs)        ~~~~~~   ~~366.6  395.1  389 .3  358.1   3te2. 1  37 1 .6      6 .7    11.0      6.8       2. 6    30.2      31.2    29.3
Evo)orts      (nmoort calpacitY)- 321,~     3   _     3)1j6       3~23. 3  33.1.2   347.5        2.1     6 .2      2 .6      3.8     25.0     24 .6    23.j
.R,rOurcr Gap                      63.1      84. 5     7 7 .7      34.8     .779     2.                  -57 7   Tr.7                         -6.7-    -5.9
Coenstption Expenditures          1022.8   1061.6    1098.9      1188.9   1 2.7. 7  1292.3       5.8     6.6       4.8       4.2    84.3      84.0     82.8
f:,vestment  .1(inel. stocks)     354. 2    287.6    306.1       323.3     3717.0  331.0        9.1     14.0       8.4       2.1    20.9      272. 7   23.1
..,stic Savings                  191.1     2,)3. 1   2728. 4     288. 5   21-9.2-  306.8        1.4     6. 5      2.7       3.69    15.7     I16..i   17.2
Natlioral Savings                  198.0    206.8    722.0        296.6    2168.3   305.9        3.1     9.0       3.4       4.0     16.3      16.4    17.2
MEPC1A711713ET TIADE                         Annual Data at Current Prices                        Ave,rag  nulGot         ae         As Percent of Total
1966-72           1973-76
Ca-) .s2 goods                   94.2      111.0     97.3       87.6      97.1    107. 2            13.5                 -        2-3.6     30. 7    24.9
ini,crmediat-e goods k=L.fuels) 101.7     132.1     1 36. 0    173.7     192.4    2 12. 5           13.5              11.5        31.9      34.6     3.1.8
Puels and related mlaterials     27.0      35.8      39.8       79.4      87.9     96.4             16.3               17.0        8. 5      9.4     1.3.2
of' which:  Petroleum         (27.0)    (35.8)    (39.8)      (79.4)   (87.9)   (96.4)           (16.3)             (17.0)       (8.5)    (9.4)   (10.2)
Consumption goods                2.15      2L6      1j2.j1      23"~     1Al.Q    1St.]              1.0                5.8       3fl. .    ?2q.. I    ..I.-
'Potal March. Imnports (ctf)    318.4     381.5     390.3       579.3    565. 4   610.2              8.7                7.8       100.0    100.0    100.12
Fxports
Primary products (=l. fuels)     183.1    183.1     196.5       325).7   377.1    337.9              0.6                7.6        77.4     75.4     70. 2
Manufactured goods (incl.
7,ttoleum pro~~~~~~ccs)  5)53. 4  )55.8    42.7        28.0     311.6    33.4            )14.5                 -        )222.6    124.6    14.5
All oce     .ods                3         3 ls40.7               53.2     51j.6    66.5            ) __12.8                      )___                15.3
Total March. Excports (fob)     236.5     242.9     280.0O     407.9     4717. 3  4737.8                                7.4       00.      100. o   100.0
Tourism and Border   Tracme       n.a.      n.a.     n.a.        n.a.      n.a.    n.a.
MerchEn,dise Trade Indices                     Average 1967-69    100
Export Price Index               130.6    102.0     112.6       174.2    170.1    171.0
Import Price Index               99.0     103.5     129.9       187.8    195.2    196.5
Terms of Trade Index             131.6     98.5      86.7        92.7     89.9     87.0
Exports Volume Index             124.0    127.0     132.0       135.3    143.0    149.8
VALuJE ADDED) BY SECTOR            Annual Data at 1.966     Prices and Exchange Rates             Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
1964-69   1965-70   1966-71  1967-72
Agriculture                      446.5    442.7     471.2                                    3. 3      4.4       1.4      2. 6     40.0     38.1    38.5
Irndustry aLnd Mining            1 79. 2  198.0     20 2. 7                                  9.3      8.3       7. 2      5.0      16.0     17.0    16.5
3.~rvice                        491.1     522.0     551.3                                    7.1       7. 6     7.0       6.1     4_4.0       _9    A~5_ O
TotaI                           -119. 8  116-2 .7  12 2-5.3                                  5. 7      6,3      4.7       4.5     100.0    100.0,  100.0
RIJBLIC FINAN~CE                    Annual Daca at Currant Price3                                            196 7 -72                  As Percent of GDP
(C~entrai c,overnment)
Current Receipts                 23 5. 6  260.3     305.3                                                   14.0                   29.2     20.6    2 3. 0
Current Fxpenditures             228.4    249.3     308.6                                                   15.4                   13.6     19.7    23.0
Budgetary Savings                  7. 2    T11._0   7-0.3                                                                           0.6     0T. 9     -
Other Pablic Sector               39.0     57.0      75.0                                                   25.0                    3.2     4.5      5.6
PublIc Sector Investment         163.0    233.0     233.0                                                   21.0                   13.3    18.4     17.5
cuR RENT EXPENDITUIRE DETAILS                  Actual
As I Total Current Expend.)              1971     1972
Education               221.1                     17.5
Other Social Services 
Agriculture               531.5                   27.3
Other E-conomic ServiCes 
Administration and Defense               30.5     32.0
O'ther                                   16.9     23.2
Total Current Expenditures              loo5.o   100.0
SETECTED INDSICATORS                                           1965-    1970-    1973-
(Caluaedfo         -year averaged data)                       1970      1975    1976
Atverage ICOR                                                  3.3      41.3      4.3
Imeport Elasticity                                             1.1       1.4     0.6
Ma~rginal Domestic Savings Rate                                0-2       0.3     0.2
Marginal National Savings Rate                                 2.17      0.23    0.25
LABOR FORcE A.01                                Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per, Worka(n Cu: rent Prices'
OILFPPP7J PER WOPKER              In Millions           of Total                              In U.S. Dollars     Prcent uS Avrage
197 1              19,71                                    1971                   1971
A,griculture                                 5-3                  91                                      98                     43
Induistry                                    0.1                  2                                     1590                    694
LService                                     0.4                  7                                     L 217                   948
Tn !SlI.\vrragn                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~5 .8    100                                      229                    13
.:~ot applicable        - nIl or negligible
not available         -  less than half the
smallest unit sho-i
/I includes all re-exps:ts, unclassified domea!tic expoct and adjust-ments for time, value, and neverage.



ANEX I
Page 3 of 3 pagoe
EIANXR o0 PAYMENTS EXERNFAL A.33S7TAiCE AND DEPT
la,aonte tn tilitaje of ';.S. dollars at curr.nt pricedn
Avg. Annual
Actual                        sctjoatd                                   Prjeted         -                           rowth Rate
1969    _   970 1970    197          9;          19.73                                197         1975 7              _96-15>'
SUMMARY BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS
Reports (tocl. NF3)                    276.8      308.8       333.1       38/.1        :.U0.2          03.9       63(36       683.        75?. 1        .1.6        ..          "
Imprs mo(tncl. Nir)                   288.4       373.1       449.8       485.'.        510.8         677.3/      67(1. 3     729.0       81.7 1       -: 1        .;.          1.9
RorourcoalaEnce7 -F)         1     1.6            -                                                L7.70. -73.1 r  -;R. m   Y                  .!R  j7 
Interest (net)                        )-2.9       7-3.5        -3.0       )-3.           -2.0          -3.3        -.          -9.4      -11.9          1.         I              B
Ditrect InveIansot lnocco              )           )          )           I               (.5          -1.5-'.        5                                -1.5
1.krhorSOs Raittance                     0.0        0.0         0.0         0.                          0.0         0.0         00           .0 
Cr           re et)                     8 4i        12 4        9.3        -1.7          .0     -2.0                6.0        10.0        10.0 iIt                   0I
6iaancc on Current Accounts            -5 9       -55 4      -1104       -1O3 4         -76 j          75 9       -41 3       -46.8       -6.1'       .49.        -7:..
Priva-e Direct Icceobreft                nil                l          nil          nil all                                     nl          n i  c  ni
Offnici Capital Oraota                 10.0        12.0        14.9       16.0          1.0           2.0         2 .5        23.1        2       S .7 :B./I
iPublic MrbLT l-oans
Disbll eaenta (IocI. gr.ntsl          44.0       49.1        49.8        76.3         140.9          89.9       112.4       134.8       150.5       15 .3       167.4         l0
-009Repa71!...........                -8.9        -9.7       -11.9       -29.0         -17.1         -14.9       -17.2       -17.3       -1.70       -240                         4
NrtFliflhiillentn  (incl. grants)  ~   13777      -,rr      3    rr       -rrr         -nt-i           n~oi9n9 9.n Jl.s 4 75- rTr5
Othor M6iT loans
Ohs ccr rabnta
-Repaymenta                             0.0         o.0        0.0         0.0           1.0           0.0                   0-.0        0.0         11,",
Ne8tDiabureOmAcis             U.                    1.u         l)7         rn                          U.u-f                 137     u.uu.uD CT             .    .7
Art.e 1                    stiated
Capital Tra-oactios n.e.i.            -21.0       -52.0      -15.0       -38.3          n.o.                             /7                          l     1971  110/7t
Charge in Net ReorvrTee                  2.8       -15.3        -4.7        53.3         25.0        P-iT AND Det SEVICR
Palic Det Out. & DIsbursd    177.0     224.6     265.7      315.3      413-2
C;RAn  AND L3AM OOITYNTS L
Official iroato& OxDrant-like                                                                          Interest pn Public Debt       6.1       6.2       6.6       7.0         0.3
Repayneata on Public Debt      9.9       9.7      1.9       2(i)        17.0
public    T I..oans                                                                                   Total Public Debt Sa-rice     16.0      15.9      IB.5      3.( "         .i
fSRD                                   7.0         -         30.0          -            0.0         Other Debt Service (net)        -
mA                                    14.3         7.5        12.3        17.3         28.8         Total Debt Service (ret)        -         -         -
Other Maltilataral                     2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0       burden an Exiport FErniage (%)
Gboern-oots                           48.8       242.5        30.9        27.3         58 .
Sappliero                               -          33           -                         -         Pblic Debt Se-nice             5.8       5.2       7    ~    7 
Fianclia  Tastitution                  3.2         30           -         0.8            -          Ttal Debt Service              5.8       5.2       5.6       9.3         5.2
Bondo                                               -                       -.                      ToSaDix-ect Invet. Inc.        5.1       4.8       5.1      729          3.7
Publin Loans  o.ei.                   16.9         2.2         5.0          -           5.0
Thtral Public M61T Loom               -792,2      7.57           4         07.4         93.8        Average Te2ma of Publ7c Debt
Actual Debt Otstaaldiag  an Dee. 31. 1972                  Tht. no S Prior Year Do&D      4.2       3.5       2.3       2.6         2.3
IXTERIAL D7                                   sJe..edoosv                 Pi eent                       Arort. ae S Prior YTear DD&D   6.8       5.5       5.3      10.           7.r
W.rld bank                                        24.0                   7
IDA                                               49.1                   15.6                       71D Debt Out. & Diab-raed
Other Itltilatex-al                                2.5                    0.8                            as S Pablic Debt O6D         1.4       1.7       4.1       2.4         7.4
Oncvrcuneata                                     185.5                   58.7                            0 S Public Debt Service, -  0.0       0.6       1.6        .2        10.0
Sappliorn                                          0.3                    0.1
Financial Inetitutioni                            22.8                    7.2                       IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Sionde                                            10.1                    3.2                        n * 5 Pu~blic Debt CAD         14.2      13.4       10.1     1l7.         7.13.
Public Debts e.e.i                                21.4                    6.8                        " an iS Public Debt Srvice 2    0.6       0.6        1.1       1.1         1.9
Total Public M&LT Debt                           73371
Other MALT Debts
Short-ta-n Debt (diab. o,al)
.nt appli.cable                                                  staff eetiemte                  fL   Not ic-lding T-n-iacs t shrrr On i AC (dbt).
..not available                                               - ..................       .       ... ni ox- negligible  / 2   1800./100 debt sara Ice ac prceen cage of cocl pibleiRA t  ll pcrv t
...  cot available ar,     sl t..1                                    leme than half the
but incLuded Sn tatal                                            ealleat unit shave






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
A.   STATEMENT OE BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
June 30, 1974_
.(US$ million)
Amount less cancelations
No.       Year    Borrower    Purpose                      Bank     IDA   Undl,sbur-ed
One loan and six credits fully disbursed                     5.2     43.0
586-TA     1969    Tanzania    Roads                         7.0                2.6
149-TA     1969    Tanzania    Education                              5.0       1.8
217-TA     1970    Tanzania    Tobacco                                9.0       7.7
715-TA     1970    TANESCO     Power                        30.0                1.8
715-2TA    1974    TANESCO     Power                         5.0                5.0
232-TA     1971    Tanzania    Education                              3.3       3.1
265-TA     1972    Tanzania    Roads                                  6.5       6.3
287-TA     1972    Tanzania    Smallholder Tea                       10.8       8.8
371-TA     1973    Tanzania    Education                             10.3      10.3
382-TA     1973    Tanzania    Livestock                             18.5      18..5
45k-TA     1974    Tanzania    Cotton                                17.5      17.5
h60-TA     1974    Tanzania    Tanzania Investment Bank               6.0       6.o
Total                                            47.2    129.91/    89.h
of which has been repaid                        0.6      0.1
Total now outstanding                            46.6    12".8
Amount sold:                   .1
of which has been repaid     .1                 _   '    _
Total now held by Bank. and IDA                  46.6    129.8
Total undisbursed                                 9.4     80.0      89J.1
- Net of' exchlange adjustmr.ents.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. SUMMARY STATEMEN1T OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TWIZANI4. AND UGA4DA AS AT JUNE 30, 1974
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.      Year    Borrower    Purpose               Baik          Undisburse;d
Three loans fully disbursed                         75.0
638-EA    1969    EAHC        Harbors               35.0               9.4
67h-EA    1970    EARC        Railways              42.4              20.0
675-EA    1970    EAPTC       Telecommunications    10.4               0.6
843-EA    1972    EADB        Development Finance    8.o              8.o
865-EA    1972    EAHC        Harbors               26.5              22.2
914-EA    1973    EAPTC       Telecommunications    32.5              27.3
Total                                    229.8              87.5
of which has been repaid                25.7
Total now outstanding                    204.1
Amount sold:                  24.4
of which has been repaid    2.4          1.0
Total now held by Bank                   203.1
Total undis,bursed                        87.5



Page jrof 6
C. PROJ71 TS Di, 1C UTI    /
(As of June 30, 1971)
There are currently 11 projects under execution.
AGRICULr2A!7 ,T2P
Credit TVo. 217 TA - ?-,Taccc Project: 29.0D PMihlion Credit of October
9, 1970; Closing Date - September 30, 1976
Although this Prciject continues to exoerience dif2iculties, its
pro3pects appear to be improving.   Famner recruitment has improved
now that more farmers can cultivate tobacco on an individual as well
as a collective basis; however, there is still a shortfall of the
revised plantinr.  targets.  The village water supply situat on wnich
has caused severe recruitment problems in the past has greatly iL mroved.
The financial nanagemant of the Project remains weak and arrangements
are bein- made to recruit a suitably qualified and e.-erienced financial
controller for the Tobacco Authority.
Credit No. 287 TA - Tnmallholder Tea Project: $10.8 Yillion Credit of
March 3, 1972; Closinr. Date - December 31, 1976
This Project has experienced a number of delays. Although proble..s
relating to farmer recruitment have eased as the Government's col-
lectivization policy has become more flexible, the Project has experie,nced
a number of implementation difficulties reflecting shortcomings in
Project management. The Govermment and the Tea Authority are now
considering ways of strengthening management to assist the
Authority in soiving those difficulties.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of Drojects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems wnich are being encountered, and the actions
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense,
and with the understanding that they do not purport to nresent
a balanced evaluation oI strengths and weaknesscs in project
execution.



AMmEX II
Page 4 of 6
Credit Nlo. 332 TA - Second Livestock Development Project: $18.5 Million
Credit of M;ayr 23, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The Credit was declared effective on September 28, 1973. The
Government is recruiting the necessary staff to implement this ProJect.
Plans for the first phase of procurement have been finalize&.
Credit No. L4i TA - Ceita Cotton ?roject: .      >17.' ,'illion Credit of
Januaru 17, 1P7L; rlc, rg Date - December 31, 1982
This credit was declared effective on April 5, 1974. The Govern-
ment and Cotton Authority are proceeding with recruitment.
POWrER SECTOR
Loan No. 715 TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project: $30.0 Million Loan
of Dcoembe- 14, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
This Project has ecountered major cost overruns. The latest
cost estimates exceed the original (ITS $59.0 million) by about one-
half. The two main factors responsible for the overruns were (i)
the unexpectedly high cost escalations inside and outside Tanzania
since appraisal in April 1970 and (ii) the une.Xpected bad rock cond-
itions encountered during escalation of the underground facilities
which make up the major part of the main civil engineering works.
CIDA of Canada has provided Can$13.O millior. to cover a large portion
of the overruns.  A supplementary loan of 15 million was approved by
the Executive Directors on June 6, 1974 and Sweden has approved a grant
of SKr 20 million ($4.5) to cover the remaining foreign cost overruns.
INXJSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania inveatment Bank Project: $6.0 Million
Credit of FebruarY 13. 197a; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Ihis Credit was declared effective on April 18, 1974.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Loan No. 586-TA - Second Highway Project: $7.0 Million Loan of February 24,
1969; Original Closing Date - December 31, 1972: Revised Closing Date -
September 30, 1974
Construction works were satisfactorily completed late in 1972.
Until recently, and after protracted negotiations with the contractors, the
Government agreed to pay them US$1.2 million in respect of their US$1.8
million claims for extra work in addition to the US$0.1 million it paid
previously, and is prepared to submit the remaining claim for arbitration.
The latest revised closing date of the loan is September 30, 1974 by which
date the Government will be able to withdraw from the loan account the
amount paid to the contractors. At the request of the Government the
undisbursed amount, about US$0.5 million, in the Loan account will be
cancelled once the withdrawal has been made.
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 Million Credit of
August 6, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1974
After long delays by Government in completing tender arrangements,
an award of contract for the improvement of the Mtwara-iasasi Road has been
made. However, owing to the increase in world prices for civil works since
the appraisal in 1970, the bid price for improving this Road is now more
than double the appraisal estimate.  Work by two betterment units on the
improvement of about 475 km of agricultural feeder roads in the Geita district
and Mara region has commenced. Consultants for the preinvestment studies
to be funded under the project have been selected and contracts are being
negotiated.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149-TA - Second Education Project: $5.0 Million Credit of
May 29, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
Progress has improved recently. All civil works contracts have
now been awarded and although it is not expected that lost time can be
made up, all elements of the project should be completed in good order
vithin a 24 month extension of the Closing Date.
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 Million Credit of
February 5, 1971; Closing Date - June 30, 1975
Bids for the construction of all 13 project institutions were
received in May 1973 resulting in the contract award for four institutions
but due to high quotations and poor resnonse, the remaining nine were
retendered. Although the new tenders were still higher than anticipated,
all civil works contracts have now been awarded. Although the lost tine
cannot be made up, project progress has now improved.



ANN'EX i-L
Page 6 of 6
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3 Xillion Credit
of April 13, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Credit was declared effective July 2, 1973. The
Project Coordinator has been appcinted and after some delays,
technical assistance spec'alJists to assist in Projecct imr.pem entatioa,
provided by tLe Ran sh Intematicnal Development Agency, nave
been appointed.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA - SUGAR DEVELOPMENT
Loan, Credit and Project Summary
BORROWER                         United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT                           Loan of US$9.0 million; Credit of
US$9.0 million equivalent
TERBS               :            Loan:  25 years including 5 years grace
at 8 per.'ent per annum
Credit: Standard terms
RELENDING TERMS    :             The bulk of the proceeds of the loan and
credit would be onlent by the Government
to the Kilombero Sugar Company for 25 years
including 5 years grace at 9 percenrt per
annum.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:             The construction of an additional sugar
factory and development of anr associated
estate and outgrowers development capable
of producing 45,000 metric tons per annum;
associated facilities including staff
housing, water supply and community facili-
Lies and tee:hnical services and training;
and a sugar development survey.
ESTIMATED COST                   US$'000
Part I
Component                Local     Foreign     Total
Land Development-         2.0        7.4         9.4
Civil Works               1.9        1.4         3.3
Research and Training     0.5        0.4         0.9
Sugar Survey              0.1        0.2         0.3
Physical contingencies
and expected price
increases                 3.1        6.o         9.1
Part I (Sub-total)        7.6        15.4       23.0
-/Including development estate and outgrowers land.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Local      Foreign      Total
Sub-total Part I          7.6         15.4        23.0
Part II
Factory2/                 4.5         28.3        32.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST       12.1         43.7        55.8
FINANCING PLAN        :            The fLnancing plan is expected to be as
follows:
Us$0ooo
Dutch        Danish
Govt.    %    Govt.    %   IDA   %    Bank   %    Govt.   %   Total
Part I
(Estate and ot;her
maanufacturing
components)         -      _             -   9.0   48    9.0   28    5.0   24    23.0
ParL II
Factory              1_.o   34    17.3    53   -      --              4.5    13   32.8
TOTAL                11.0   20    17.3    31   9.0   16   9.0    16   9.5    17   55.8
1~      _=     e        =     ===__                     -    =
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS    :          Fiscal Year
(US$'000)
1975      1976     1977      1978      1979
Loan         -       1150     4950      1700      1200
Credit     2950     6050
-/Including supervision.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
PROCURMNT ARRANGEMENTS:           Part I - Land Development and Ancillary Facilitie
International competitive bidding for land
development equipment, cane transport equip-
ment and vehicles, furniture and equipment
for non-factory building and water and elec-
tricity supply equipment where contracts
exceed $30,000; local manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent
or the existing rate of import duties, which-
ever is lower; international competitive
bidding for offices, staff houses and other
civil works; local contractors would be
allowed a 7-1/2 percent preference; land
preparation, estate roads and railbed con-
struction would be carried out directly by
KSC; the railway line would be procured and
laid by East African Railways; existing
Government procurement procedures in cases
where individual contracts are less than
US$30,000. Consultants to conduct the sugar
survey would be recruited in accordance with
the Bank guidelines.
Part II - Factory:
Turnkey contract with consortium of Dutch
and Danish manufacturers signed on April 5,
1974. Supervision of construction to be
carried out by HVA Inter-national, Ltd.
RATE OF RETURN            :       Economic Rate of Return 13 perc-nt.
APPRAISAL REPORT          :       Report No. 466-TA dated   July 30, 1974
MAP                       :       A map showing the project area is attached.






IBRD 10889
APRIL 1974
TANZANIA
KILOMBERO      SUGAR PROJECT                                 Riva
Project crea Doundary                        0       \'LSEIJS GAME RESERVE
---Project division boundaries                 Lomango                   ....'.     '
4    Proposed KSC factory site (K I.)..........
Existing outgrowers cone fields
__ __ _   )Itip  area
f7   J.  -. ~,rJr.l.]- and marginal land
All-weather roads
Roilway
0   V6lages
Rivers                                             /
Eridqes                   Mr                '.A2 ,/            E
o ~ ~   ~   ~    ~    ~~~~ IAD 2Xi                             !. -#
-V~~                                                                    ~~~~~ ...... t u)\   L_ \,  "....  Z 
0                      5~~~~C-
Kil..ere,j                                       ...........
M, ~ I.,>;><\\                                   ,..
0
0~ ~ ~   ~~~~~~~0
aT        v.              J~~~~~~~~11G R  , J'-
/  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~PROJECT AREA DIVISiONS
(Areas and approximate gross acreage)
/7 ,    z  G"       "'       !      A 2500 acres Outgrowers, Kitete ujomoo village
B4700 acres Estate, including irrigated cane
if>/ -                                 a .....  C 3800 acres Estate, ranfed
D4600 acres; Kilosa District Development Corp.
Ru                                           1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E800 acres Outgrowers
-- .  <              F~~~~~~~~ 1200 acres Outgrowers
G 1600 acres 0uTrrowers
Mkaoml                   STATON                                           SELOUS GAME RESERVE
oKI)                                                      ' _.
--L':)1v6EF;D  'E~r.%if            1~t. A,\ 
| IMiotwo oreo)  t              \                                        \tzsw*e, ea 
ZA 4I "ZN,oA 
IM10i.0   .,/ea)            * ,; Q  S t'<>t  l >  , .,. v b.  1   ,   j  .  4



