CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 513 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Kilombero Sugar Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 27, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 513 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Kilombero Sugar Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 27, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1974, between the UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and the Association to assist in the financing of Part I of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B)   The Borrower and the Kingdom     of Denmark (hereinafter called
Denmark) have entered into, or propose to enter into, the agreements referred
to hereinafter providing for Denmark to make three loans to the Borrower
(hereinafter collectively called the Danish Loans) for purposes which, at the option
of the Borrower, may include the financing of Part II of the Project, namely (i)
an agreement dated July 8, 1971, providing for a loan in the amount of forty
million Danish Kroner (DKr40,000,000), (ii) an agreement dated March 26, 1974,
providing for a loan in the amount of thirty-five million Danish Kroner
(DKr35,000,000), and (iii) an agreement dated June 30, 1974, providing for a
loan in the amount of sixty million Danish Kroner (DKr60,000,000);
(C)   The   Borrower   and   the  Nederlandse  Investeringsbank  voor
Ontwikkelingslanden N.V. (hereinafter called the Investment Bank) have entered
into or propose to enter into, the agreements referred to hereinafter providing
for the Investment Bank to make two loans to the Borrower (hereinafter collectively
called the Dutch Loans) for purposes which at the option of the Borrower, may
include the financing of Part II of the Project, namely (i) an agreement dated
July 30, 1973 providing for a loan in the amount of eleven million Netherlands
Guilders (fl. 11,000,000) and (ii) an agreement proposed to be entered into providing
for a loan in the amount of thirteen million Netherlands Guilders (fl.13,000,000);
(D)   The Kingdom of the Netherlands (hereinafter called the Netherlands)
proposes to enter into an advance commitment to the Borrower (hereinafter called
the Dutch Advance Commitment) providing for the Netherlands to make available
in 1975 to the Borrower, through the Investment Bank, an additional loan in the
amount of fourteen million Netherlands Guilders (fl.14,000,000) for purposes
which, at the option of the Borrower, may include the financing of Part II of
the project;


﻿4
(E)   The Project will be carried out by Kilombero Sugar Company Limited
(hereinafter called Kilombero) and Sugar Development Corporation with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Kilombero, pursuant to the provisions of a subsidiary loan agreement,
part of the proceeds of a Credit extended by the Association as hereinafter provided
and the proceeds of a loan to be provided under a Loan Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(F)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank, the Association and Kilombero;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank, the
Association and Kilombero of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Kilombero pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of financing Part I of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements


﻿5
of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and o be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1l%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May I and
November I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May I and November I commencing
November 1, 1984 and ending May 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on May 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿6
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
Kilombero to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Kilombero to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit and the
proceeds of the loan under the Loan Agreement to Kilombero tinder a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Boriower and Kilombero under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and the
Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. To the extent the outgrowers mentioned in Part L.B and C
of the Project are unable to cultivate the land cleared and prepared for them for
cultivation, the Borrower shall cause Kilombero to cultivate such land during the
outgrowers' incapacity to do so.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause Sugar Development Corporation (a)
to carry out Part I.G of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose, including the provision of a grant from the proceeds
of the Credit of about the equivalent of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000)
and (b) to employ a team of consultants for such purpose on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association.


﻿7
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation on the generality of Section 3.01(a),
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall make available to Kilombero so much of the proceeds of the Danish Loans,
the Dutch Loans, and the Dutch Advance Commitment as shall be required for
the financing of the foreign expenditures arising in Part II of the Project.
(b)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure that, of the proceeds of the
Credit, the loan under the Loan Agreement, the Danish Loans, the Dutch Loans,
the Dutch Advance Commitment and the contribution of the Borrower made
available to Kilomebero for the purpose of the Project, not less than 30 per cent
and not more than 50 per cent of such proceeds shall be made available to
Kilombero in the form of equity capital.
Section 3.05. (a) Using as a basis for calculation total cane crops to be
expected under normal weather conditions and sugar yields from efficient operation
of Kilombero's facilities, the Borrower shall take all necessary action to ensure
that prices for sugar produced by Kilombero are such that, taking one year with
another, the return on all capital employed by Kilombero, whether evidenced by
shares or otherwise, shall normally be about 9 per cent per annum to reflect the
economic cost of that capital.
(b)   The Borrower shall regularly review domestic retail prices of sugar in
light of such factors as production costs and import prices.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any of the
loans referred to in Recitals (B), (C) and (D) to meet expenditures for Part II
of the Project shall have been suspended or terminated in whole or in part;
(b)   any of the loans to the Borrower referred to in Recitals (B), (C) and
(D) shall have become due and payable prior to its agreed maturity pursuant to
the terms thereof and the Borrower shall have failed to make alternative
arrangements for additional financing satisfactory to the Association within 60 days
thereafter;


﻿8
(c)   Kilombero   shall have failed to perform    any of its covenants,
agreements, or obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which makes it improbable
that Kilombero will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
and
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Kilombero or for the
suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the suspension of the Borrower's right to withdraw the proceeds of
any of the loans referred to in Section 4.01(a) of this Agreement to meet
expenditures for Part II of the Project shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 120 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower;
(b)   the termination of the Borrower's right to withdraw the proceeds of
any of the loans referred to in Section 4.01(a) to meet expenditures for Part II
of the Project;
(c)   any event s-pecified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur; and
(d)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (e) of Section 4.0 1 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Kilombero have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;


﻿9
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and Kilombero, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the agreements referred to in Recitals (B) and (C) and the instrument
establishing the Dutch Advance Commitment referred to in Recital (D), all in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank and the Association, have been duly executed
and delivered by the parties thereto and authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental and corporate action and are in full force and effect; and
(d)   the execution and delivery of a managing agency agreement on behalf
of Kilombero concluded upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, Kilombero, and constitutes a legally
binding obligation of Kilombero in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and Kilombero,
respectively, and constitutes a legally binding obligation of the Borrower and
Kilombero in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date December 31, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.02 and Section
3.05 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
1 1.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿10
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of such
proceeds to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Land develop-                 8,400,000           100% of foreign
ment, transport,                                  expenditures or
irrigation and                                    85% of local
other equipment                                   expenditures
(2)   Civil works                   4,200,000          75%
(including land
clearance and
preparation)
(3)   Cost of research               1,100,000          100% of foreign
and training per-                                 expenditures or
sonnel, other                                     75%A of local
training costs,                                   expenditures
and consultant
services
(4)   Unallocated                   4,300,000
TOTAL         18,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.


﻿12
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association and the Bank that no proceeds of the Credit and of
the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which
shall affect the amount of any such taxes included in the cost of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the Association
or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories I and 2 on account of
expenditures incurred after May 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $700,000.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if
the Association and the Bank have, or after full withdrawal of the entire amount
of the Credit, the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit
and of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Association and
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit and of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,


﻿13
power or remedy of the Association and of the Bank under the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit and of the Loan as in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of two Parts.
Part I (Sugar Plantation):
A.    The establishment of a sugar estate of about 7,300 acres, north of the Great
Ruaha River in Kilombero Valley, partly under irrigation, including clearing,
preparation and first planting, construction of roads and bridges,
improvement and construction of drainage, construction of an irrigation
pressure pump station, and acquisition of cane transport equipment;
B.    The clearing and preparation for cane production (including first planting)
of about 2400 acres of land north of the Great Ruaha River for cane
outgrowers, and acquisition of cane transport equipment;
C.    The clearing and preparation for cane production (including first planting)
of additional land for cane outgrowers in Msolwa south of the Great Ruaha
River so as to increase cane outgrower acreage in that area to about 2200
acres, and acquisition of cane transport equipment;-
D.    The construction of a factory access road, staff housing, water supply and
power transmission facilities, community facilities, and necessary rail links;
E.    On-the-job and domestic and overseas technical training of factory and field
personnel of Kilombero;
F.    The acquisition of additional equipment and the employment of additional
qualified personnel to increase crop research at Kilombero; and
G.    The identification of areas for, and preparation of feasibility studies on,
further sugar development in Tanzania.
Part II (Sugar Factory):
The construction of a sugar factory having the initial capacity to process
2400 metric tons of cane per day, with ancillary equipment, located at the
southwest corner of the estate referred to in Part I.A.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


